We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 1 MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
Rally in the Swamp trumps 
rain, Fuchs visits students
Students prepare for football season by 
learning gameday traditions, pg. 13
SEE WHEELCHAIR,  PAGE 5FUCHS CONSIDERS HIMSELF A 
FRESHMAN, TOO. 
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
The students of UF’s class of 2019 
weren’t the only freshmen attending New 
Student Convocation.
UF President Kent Fuchs welcomed first-
year students on Friday as a freshman him-self. Fuchs came to UF in January from Cor-nell University to be UF’s 12th president.
“This indeed is my first Fall semester 
like you, and like many of you, I also live on campus,” Fuchs said.
Fuchs told students college is an adjust-
ment and failure is a part of life, recount-
ing his failing grade on his first chemistry 
exam.“We admitted you because we knew you 
would not just survive but indeed soar,” Fuchs said.
Convocation also gave students and par-
ents the opportunity to see — and even talk 
with — the president.
Nutritional sciences 
freshman Carla Gonzalez said her aunt spoke with 
Fuchs.
“It was really nice see-
ing the president of UF, 
and he had a nice vibe,” the 18-year-old said.
Environmental science freshman Holli 
Capps said she found Fuchs funny and in-volved with the Student Body.
“I think it’s interesting to have a presi-
dent who’s not above everybody else,” the 18-year-old said.President Fuchs welcomes 
freshmen at convocation CAMPUS
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
He stood tall for months, sur-
rounded with love and support 
from many.
But on Aug. 15, Bert the bluff 
oak fell.
The tree was about 150 years 
old and too tall to be cut down in 
one swift motion. The 81-foot-tall 
Bert was trimmed limb by limb as students and Gainesville residents watched.
Before his fall, students and UF 
alumni tweeted to @SaveOurBert, a Twitter account created on be-half of the giant tree.
Van Truong, one of the stu-
dents who ran the account, live tweeted the tree’s destruction. She didn’t think anything more could be done for Bert, but she said she still hoped things would change 
last minute.
But they didn’t. Before 9 a.m., 
the chainsaw began to roar.
Jason Smith, a UF forest pathol-
ogy professor, advocated for more 
than two years to save Bert, since the addition plan was first an-nounced.
“For me, there is an emotional 
connect,” he said. “Trees are very important to me… and I do feel like seeing it gone was just a sad moment.”
He said he hopes to receive 
a cross section from the base of 
Bert, which would allow him to count the number of rings within 
the stem and determine the tree’s exact age.
Based upon a core sample from 
Bert in April, the School of Forest Resources and Conservation esti-mated Bert was about 150 years old, Smith said.
But it was a conservative 
guess, he said, because the sample couldn’t reach three-and-a-half inches of the inner stem due to its thickness. Smith said Bert could have been much older.
The exact age could be de-
termined if he received a cross section of Bert’s trunk, he said, adding that he was waiting for ap-proval from UF administration to 
receive the section.
Based upon his observation of 
the tree, Smith said that Bert ap-
peared strong and healthy and 
could have lived for at least an-
other 100 years had he been left alone.
Bert was in the way of UF’s 
Nexus building addition, which 
UF spokesman Steve Orlando said 
the university hopes will keep en-gineering students interested in the field with new features such 
as research lab space.
A date to begin constructing 
the $53 million addition has not 
yet been decided, Orlando said. Nor have the needed funds been 
fully met.
In a letter to the University 
Lakes, Vegetation and Landscape 
Committee chairman, Vice Presi-
dent for Business Affairs Curtis 
Reynolds said the decision to cut down Bert and other heritage trees Bert the bluff oak falls, Nexus to be built in place
Jordan McPherson / Alligator staff
A worker with Gaston’s Tree Services uses a chainsaw to remove a limb from Bert, a large bluff oak tree be-
hind UF’s Nuclear Sciences Building, is hauled away after being cut off on Aug. 15, 2015. Construction plans called for trees, including Bert, a student favorite estimated to be at least 150 years old, to be cut down.
SEE BERT,  PAGE 4
Fuchs
LOCAL
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
Most people are familiar with rolling 
through Midtown on a Sunday night.
Most people don’t do it in a wheelchair.
Brad Heron, 33, owner and piano player 
at Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar, barhopped 
five establishments Sunday to raise aware-ness of issues that affect communities with 
disabilities. He said he is one of 30 volun-
teers who is participating in the Wheel-chaired for a Day Challenge in Gainesville this month.
“It’s definitely a learning experience,” 
he said, his wheels skidding over the rain-soaked ground. “You have to get good at making friends quickly.”
Heron said he apologized “about 100 
times” while navigating winding hallways, narrow doorways and walkways lined with people and chairs. It was a particularly stormy Sunday and Midtown was nearly deserted.
He began at Gator City Sports Grill, 
moving on to Salty Dog Saloon before ma-neuvering to his third stop at 101 Cantina. At each place, he and a handful of friends drank beers and took shots “to awareness.”
“Imagine if this place was packed,” he 
said, as he easily passed people standing at Cantina’s outside bar.Man barhops in wheelchair
“I think it’s good for people to 
put themselves in the position to 
understand what it’s like as a disabled 
person.”
Brad Heron
Owner of Rockeys Dueling Piano BarThe Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 167
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, dveenstra@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson,
jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Serina Esquivel, Bailey Gaul, 
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Nadine Rae Saladino ,  
  Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz
Less than 3 miles from UF!
Air conditionedCoinless Card SystemFree WifiAttendant present at all timesOpen 7:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M.      (last wash at 9:00 P.M.)Monthly raffles
2430 N. Main Street | 352.376.8609
facebook.com/GatorlandLaundromat
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. HIGH  84° LOW  52°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, dveenstra@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson,
   jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Sheari Linn, Melissa Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Serina Esquivel, Bailey Gaul, 
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Nadine Rae Saladino ,  
  Madison Vorbrich
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz
Less than 3 miles from UF!
Air conditionedCoinless Card SystemFree WifiAttendant present at all timesOpen 7:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M.      (last wash at 9:00 P.M.)Monthly raffles
2430 N. Main Street | 352.376.8609
facebook.com/GatorlandLaundromat
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email 
 editor@alligator.org.
MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
UNIVERSITY TOWNE CENTER 
BEHIND CARRABBA’S
3045 SW 34th Street, Suite 30 
Gainesville, FL 32608
STORE HOURS:  
Mon. - Sun. 7am - 11pm
Sign up for email deals and more at 
earthfare.com/gainesville5% OFF
With valid IDSTUDENT & FACULTY
DISCOUNT 
Excludes beer, wine, 
and gift cards.EVERY TUESDAY
VALID THROUGH 8/30/15
Valid for $1 off your purchase of an EF Whole Deli 
Sandwich. Limit 4 Sandwiches. Must present coupon to redeem; limit 1 coupon per person, per visit; no cash value; no substitutions; not valid with any other coupons or discounts; not valid with Team Member discount. Offer only valid at the Gainesville, FL (3045 SW 34th Street, Suite 30, Gainesville, FL 32608) Earth Fare location.
PLU 80240$1 OFFWhole Deli 
Sandwiches
Made Fresh Here
FRESH 
PIZZA SLICES
EVERYDAY!2 for $6
SAVE  up to 50¢/lb. 
Brain Food Mix 
$599/lb.
SAVE  up to $3/lb. 
Chocolate Peanut  
Butter Malt Balls 
$899/lb.
SAVE  up to $2/lb. 
Chocolate & Yogurt 
Covered Pretzels 
$599/lb.
$799
PER LB.ORGANIC & NATURAL
SALAD BAR
EVERYDAY!
SAVE  up to $1/lb. 
After School Mix 
$599/lb.
DELICIOUS DEALS TO BULK UP YOUR PANTRY. VALID THROUGH 9/1/15.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
Gainesville’ s
#1 Gym for GAINS
MEMBERSHIPS
as low as
• Offering UNLIMITED 
   TANNING• Great Prices on    SUPPLEMENTS• NO CROWDS!
One coupon per customer
per semester. Not valid
with any other discount,
coupon or special offer.
Expires 1/5/16.www.BAILEYSGYM.com
3441 W. University Ave352-373-4439 w/ couponFREE
TAN!
per month
per month
$19.99
352-373-4439
OPEN 24 HOURS 
365 DAYS A YEAR
One coupon per customer
One coupon per customer
per semester. Not valid
with any other discount,
coupon or special offer.
Expires 1/5/16.w/ couponFREE
7 DAY PASS!
One coupon per customer
 One coupon per customer
per semester. Not valid
with any other discount,
coupon or special offer.
Expires 1/5/16.w/ coupon10% OFF
SUPPLEMENT
PURCHASE!
One coupon per customer
UNIVERSITY AVE
SW 34TH ST
SW ARCHER RDWE ARE HERE!FOOTAGE WAS SEEN ON CAM-
ERA. 
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
The state attorney cleared two Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputies last week in 
the May 12 shooting of a man outside the 
Northside Shopping Center Winn-Dixie, ac-
cording to ASO spokesman Art Forgey.
ASO K-9 Deputies Christopher Griseck and 
Michael Hurlocker were driving to the scene 
of an armed robbery to assist Gainesville Po-
lice ofﬁ  cers when they saw a man matching the robber’s description, according to a Flor-ida Department of Law Enforcement report.
In a dashcam video released by the sher-iff’s ofﬁ  ce, the deputies asked Yowab Ben-Israel, 46, to show his hands, but Ben-Israel 
instead backed away and drew a revolver.
The deputies then ﬁ  red 11 rounds from 
their .38 caliber revolvers, six by Hurlocker 
and ﬁ  ve by Griseck, according to the FDLE report. Ben-Israel sustained non-fatal bullet 
wounds in his lower stomach and left arm, 
which ASO and Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cers tended to in the parking lot.
Police later found two rounds in Ben-Isra-
el’s revolver, along with more than $1,100 in cash and $685 in money orders in his pock-ets.
Authorities arrested Ben-Israel on charges 
of robbery with a ﬁ  rearm and possession of 
a weapon by a convicted felon. Police took 
him to the Alachua County Jail where he re-mained as of press time without bail.ASO deputies cleared in 
shooting outside Winn-DixieCRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local man 
Saturday morning after he reportedly 
caused $70 in damages to St. Augustine 
church by defecating on the front door 
and steps of the church.
Louis Byron Larson, 68, defecated on 
the steps of the church, located at 1738 W. 
University Ave., at about 5 a.m. Saturday, 
according to a GPD arrest report.
Byron Duncan, 27, an employee at a 
neighboring parking garage, saw Larson on the steps and asked him if he wanted 
to use the garage bathroom.
“I told him ‘you don’t have to do that 
there,’” Duncan said. “We have toilet pa-
per to wipe your butt.”
Larson, Duncan said, replied with ra-
cial slurs and continued to defecate on the steps.
Duncan and another employee then 
called the police, who arrived at the 
church to ﬁ  nd Larson lying in his own 
waste on the steps.
Larson, who also 
goes by “Macaroni Lar-son,” was previously 
found guilty on 30 
separate counts of tres-
passing and one count of indecent exposure, 
according to Alachua 
County court records.  
He also trespassed on the UF campus in 2013, according to University Police re-cords.
Police arrested Larson on a charge of 
criminal mischief. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail, where he re-mained as of press time in lieu of a $2,000 
bond.GNV man defecates on church
so early was to prepare for the 
legislative start date and to avoid the possibility of construction cost 
increases.
To mitigate the losses, heri-
tage trees will be replaced with 
six trees, and, depending on their 
size, other trees cut down will be replaced with two or four trees. 
The selected design plan was 
one of many created by the the de-
sign team. The team tried to save the trees but ultimately decided on the plan that met the building re-quirements and needs while also 
cutting the most heritage trees 
down, according to the minutes from the May 14 UF Lakes, Veg-etation and Landscape Committee meeting.
“We certainly understand and 
appreciate the passion surround-ing our campus trees,” Orlando wrote in an email. “As much as we value conservation and the 
environment, though, the univer-
sity’s primary role is educating students.”While Bert may be gone, Tru-
ong and other students aren’t 
done advocating for the conserva-
tion and well-being of trees.
Truong said she and a few oth-
er students are in the process of creating an interactive map that 
shows all the trees on campus. 
This, she said, would make the university accountable for trans-parency.
“I think it would be great to be 
able to go to a place and see what trees have been removed over the years at the university and then what new trees have sprung up according to mitigation promises,” 
Truong said.
Staff writer Alexandra Fernan-
dez contributed to this report.
BERT,  from pg1An interactive map for campus trees is in the worksLarson 
He barhopped for 
awarenessMONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
100’s of
New Choices
 coming august 24th
Where:
JWRU Circle Drive 
Breezeway
When:
Mon. Aug. 24 thru Fri. Aug. 28
Time: 
9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor:
Programs, Arts, and Leisure
Tier 1 GatorCare  Providers  
SIMED Health.com 
(352) 224 -2200  
GAINESVILLE · OCALA · CHIEFLAND · LADY LAKE / THE VILLAGES · MCINTOSH · LAKE CITY  
 
 
 
 Our SIMED family is here to take care of yours.  
•  Family Medicine  
•  Internal Medicine  
•  Allergy & Asthma  
•  Clinical Research  
•  Gynecology  
•  Hand Surgery   
•  Interventional Pain Management  
•  Neurology  
•  Orthopedic Surgery  
•  Spine & Neurosurgery  •  Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation  
•  Plastic Surgery   
•  Psychology  
•  Psychiatry   
•  Pulmonology  
•  Rheumatology  
•  Sleep Medicine  
•  Urology  
•  Urgent Care  
Bus Route 
#5 & #43  
$10
Men’s Haircuts
with Student ID
Serving Gainesville at 
two locations
www.randyshaircuts.comBrooke Baitinger / Alligator Staff
Brad Heron, piano player and owner of Rockey’s Dueling Piano Bar, spent Sunday night out with coworkers 
Sean Reed (left), Mayan Alvarado (middle) and Marylin Prado (right). Heron said he is one of 30 people who participated in the Wheelchaired for a Day Challenge in Gainesville this month, which raises awareness of issues that affect communities with disabilities.
While he managed to make his 
way to The Swamp Restaurant, 
Heron faced his biggest and ﬁ  nal 
challenge at The Rowdy Reptile. 
While Heron can normally stroll up the stairs with ease, he was forced to spend part of his night 
yanking himself around corners 
and ﬁ  guring out how to use the elevator.
“They don’t take the time to ac-
tually educate themselves and un-
derstand what those people need, 
and some of the needs are a little extra,” said Wesley Mann, 29, a Rockeys security guard who ac-
companied Heron. “Bigger doors, 
more bathroom access, ramps — more ways to move around.”
Heron’s efforts were especially 
meaningful for Mann because his 
18-year-old sister, Alyssa, has been in a wheelchair her entire life.
“I think it’s good for people to 
put themselves in the position to understand what it’s like as a dis-
abled person,” he said.
Despite his difﬁ  culty moving 
through Midtown, Heron said it 
was nice to see a side of humanity 
he would not otherwise witness. Various people offered to help him, and everyone moved out of his way.
For Marylin Prado, who bar-
tends at Rockeys, it was a shock to see her boss in a wheelchair.
“It’s weird because he’s such 
an active person,” she said. “He’s always on stage, then off stage, all over the place, so it’s just strange to see him so immobile right now.”
Though his activity was limited, 
Heron said he was glad he did it.
“It’s about awareness,” he said. 
“I couldn’t be more aware.”WHEELCHAIR,  from pg1The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The media’s coverage of Trump is detrimental  
Thus far, the 2016 presidential election has 
been the most opulent and luxurious race for the White House in recent memory. The primary reason for this has been the candidacy of Donald J. Trump. The billion-
aire’s no-holds-barred sound bites and — oddly enough — every-man attitude have rallied many in both the middle and the right to his cause.
But the reason Trump is doing so well is not 
what you might think. It’s certainly not his policy proposals — thus far, his policy points have been little more than words and phrases that you can put on a bumper sticker.
Trump’s ascendancy is not due to his Republican debate 
performance. Although he received one of the highest debate favorable ratings, he also received the overwhelmingly high-est negative ratings as well. And it’s not Trump’s rhetoric either; I doubt anyone would want to have a man with the rhetorical ﬂ  are of a spoiled six-year-old as president. Trump is a man who calls anyone who opposes him “stupid” and exacts revenge after another presidential contender makes a petty comment against his fragile ego (read: giving out fel-low Republican presidential nominee Lindsey Graham’s cell-
phone number).
Trump is leading in the polls solely due to the sheer 
amount of media coverage being allotted to him. Gov. Mike 
Huckabee was right when he said, “You give me 10 times the coverage that any other candidate gets, and I’ll be lead-ing.” For those of you engulfed in “24-hour Trump Presiden-tial Coverage 2016,” I’ll bet that you didn’t even know that Huckabee is also running for president. The media coverage dedicated to Trump has been staggering. According to The 
Guardian, Trump leads print media coverage, having been 
mentioned in 19.6 percent of newspaper articles pertaining to the GOP ﬁ  eld. Keep in mind, Trump is one of more than 15 candidates running for president on the Republican ticket. As for television, Trump gets 42.8 percent of the on-air men-tions. Trump’s media coverage spanning from March to July of this year surpassed Hillary Clinton’s overall coverage. 
The sheer volume of Trump coverage helps the billionaire by consolidating conservative support. Anytime a conservative media darling emerges, the New York Times editorial board and liberal political outlets go out of their way to slam them. In re-sponse, conservative media such as Fox News 
predictably come to the rescue of the besieged 
right-winger. This happened with Sarah Palin and is currently happening with Trump.        
But can you really blame the media for focus-
ing so much on Trump? He is, of course, a ﬂ  am-boyant self-promoter that will say anything that 
gets him coverage. The recent “anchor baby” ﬁ  asco is get-ting him even more press attention. Trump will probably sur-vive yet another gaffe that would have sunk anybody else’s 
chance at winning the Oval Ofﬁ  ce.  
With that said, I do blame the media. Paradoxically, the 
media devotes tons of column space and airtime to Trump, 
yet marvels at the fact that he is doing so well. The media coverage is directly correlated to Trump’s lead in the polls. If Huckabee had half as much airtime as Trump currently does, Huck’s numbers would undoubtedly surge. In a ﬁ  eld of more than 15 candidates, media coverage can make or break a candidate’s campaign. By devoting so much time to 
Trump, an impressive governor of Ohio is not being men-
tioned. One of Fortune Magazine’s Most Powerful Women is hardly being considered. A former governor of Florida who was instrumental in the charter school revolution is lagging behind due to Trump coverage.
I blame myself as well. I have devoted a whole article 
here discussing the Trump phenomena; is there any way for me to criticize Trump coverage without actively contributing to it? Perhaps. However, getting sucked into the Trump black 
hole is all too easy. This is why the media needs to be more 
balanced in its approach to the 2016 race. The stakes are too high for one man to cast his huge, luxurious and most golden shadow over the presidential contest. And, given these high stakes, the media needs to be held accountable for helping him in dominating the ﬁ  eld.   
Michael Beato is a UF political science senior. His column 
appears on Mondays.UF can be tough 
but rewarding
If you’re reading this: Welcome to the ﬁ  rst edition of 
The Independent Florida Alligator for the Fall 2015 se-mester. Whether you’re a freshman leaving home for 
the ﬁ  rst time or a world-weary senior who has already 
hit every Midtown bar and is well versed in the culture 
of Club West, you ought to be excited; UF is one of the most exciting places for a young person to pursue a higher 
education.
It certainly helps that Gainesville is a vibrant, diverse city 
with every kind of spot for every kind of person. If your ideal 
Friday night consists of barhopping dirty, crowded nightclubs soundtracked to loud, thunderous trap music, Midtown is only a 
hop, skip and a jump away from the main campus. Alternatively, 
if you like to spend your Friday nights sipping on caffeinated drinks and debating the merits of latter-day David Bowie albums with bearded liberal arts students, Maude’s Classic Cafe is always 
a viable option.
Speaking candidly, my own experience with UF is somewhat 
atypical to that of the average student’s. The first time I ever set 
foot in Gainesville was in 2012, while I was a freshman at the University of North Florida in Jacksonville. Although I had only 
come to party with friends from high school, I fell in love with 
both the school and the city almost immediately. The Gothic ar-chitecture of the campus buildings exuded a sense of history and prestige other universities could only hope to emulate, while the 
enthusiasm and passion I observed in other students was unlike 
anything I had ever experienced. 
For the next two years, I had one singular goal: to become a 
part of The Gator Nation, and to join a long tradition of accom-plished, proud Gator graduates. 
After buckling down and boosting my then-mediocre GPA, I 
submitted my transfer application — which was denied. Appar-ently, a social sciences statistic credit — when it ought to have been business — didn’t fit the necessary criteria for political sci-
ence majors looking to transfer to the university.
Following some soul-searching (and more than a few beers), 
I had decided that I’ d come too far for it to end like that. From 
there, I made a few phone calls and reached out to any university official that would listen. And then, I waited. 
One day, following a fateful lunch with my father, I opened up 
my application status to see those magic words: “Welcome to The Gator Nation. ”
I view my journey in getting here, as well as my own trials 
and tribulations in getting acclimated, as emblematic of the UF experience. Sometimes it’s going to kick your ass and take you for a spin. But it’s when you get up and somehow make it possible to not only pursue all of your extracurricular activities but excel in school as well that you realize sometimes you need to get your ass 
kicked in order to become a better person. 
Being a UF student, like being an actual alligator, means being 
tough and resilient.
We here at the Alligator are giddy about what the coming se-
mester holds. 
If you are interested in working with in opinions, do not hesi-
tate to send your resume, as well as two writing samples, to opin-
ions@alligator.org. We will also be holding an open house this Friday at our office from noon to 5 p.m. We look forward to meet-
ing, informing and conversing with all of you.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
Collegiate 
Members 
receive 15% off!
Bring a valid student ID to the 
member Service Desk for your 
One Day Membership
3501 SW 34th Street
(352) 377-5733ARCHER
BEAUTY
All types of Hair Pieces:
Clipon, Fusion, 
Extensions, Wigs
MEET THE EDITORS
Alyssa Fisher
Alyssa Fisher is 21-year-old jour-
nalism senior and the Alligator’s Fall 
2015 editor-in-chief. She’ll be making the tough calls, exposing the latest scoop and running around the news-
room in ﬂ  atform shoes. Hyper, bubbly 
and a lover of all things spicy, you can ﬁ  nd her noshing on ginger or crunch-ing on hummus and carrots. She spends most of her time writing, read-ing, questioning and watching HGTV. Her high-school self was psyched when she earned a summer internship at ELLE Magazine in New York City, 
where she lived the fabulous life of an 
unpaid intern. A self-proclaimed 24-hour person, she loved the city’s fast-paced vibe, hip restaurants and fear-less fashion. She hopes to return after graduation and work full time as a journalist. One day she’d love to write features and long form narratives from anywhere in the world.  If you have a 
story to share, are on a ranting spree 
or just want to say “hi,” send her an email at aﬁ  sher@alligator.org. Ariana Figueroa
Ariana Figueroa is a 20-year-old 
journalism junior and the managing 
print editor at the Alligator this fall. She was on the Student Government beat for two semesters where she covered senate meetings, two elec-tions and other shenanigans. She’s looking forward to the fall because the summer humidity has been bru-tal to her hair. But most of all, she’s excited to interact with students, write and spend time at the Alliga-tor where her caffeine addiction is never frowned upon. When she doesn’t have a cup of coffee or book in her hand, you can ﬁ  nd her sleep-ing, watching Netﬂ  ix or swimming. But secretly she’s still waiting for her Hogwarts letter, or for Gandalf to show up at her apartment to in-vite her on an adventure. Either one works for her. If you have any story ideas, complaints or SG rants email her at aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org.  MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
gluten-free • vegan • paleo • organicwww.wfdinnerpersonalchef.com352 • 792 • 6755 WE FEED 
HUNGRY 
GATORS!
 weekly meal service
Homestyle meals 
Prepared to your 
Specifications! 
• Student DiscountsWe offer a wide variety 
including special diets like: 
Gluten Free, Vegan, 
Paleo, and Organic
• We Deliver
Zach Schlein
Zach Schlein is a UF po-
litical science senior and the 
opinions editor for the Alliga-
tor this Fall. 
Like many Jewish men in 
Florida, he was born in New 
Jersey before moving to Boca 
Raton in 2002. From a young 
age, Zach was shaped by his love for irreverent British com-edy, satirical talk show hosts and a self-detrimental disdain 
for authority. 
When he’s not in the Alliga-
tor ofﬁ  ce, you can catch him 
in one of Gainesville’s many 
coffee shops, sipping an iced 
latte and listening to whatever new album NPR is streaming that week. 
After graduation, he hopes 
to live as a bohemian in New York for an unspeciﬁ  ed amount of time before tran-sitioning to becoming a bona 
ﬁ  de journalist. 
If you would like to discuss 
post-punk or the good-inten-
tioned yet ultimately impossi-ble ideals of “The Communist 
Manifesto,” he can be reached 
at opinions@alligator.org or follow him on Twitter at @ZachSchlein.Jordan McPherson
Jordan McPherson is a 
20-year-old journalism junior 
and the managing online editor 
at the Alligator this Fall. 
He’s originally from West 
Palm Beach but has lived in the 
metro-Atlanta area for the last 
four years. 
Jordan has been working 
at the Alligator since Fall 2013 
when he ﬁ  rst arrived at UF as a wide-eyed freshman. 
He worked in the sports sec-
tion (referred to as “sprots” from here on) during his two years, working his way up to 
sports editor last year. 
In the little time he isn’t 
working on a story or making 
sure the website looks the best it can or talking about anything 
sports related to anyone who 
will listen, Jordan devotes the majority of his time to ESPN and Netﬂ  ix. And occasionally 
sleep.
If you have any story ideas/
complaints/rants or want to talk 
about anything sports, reach out to him at jmcpherson@alliga-
tor.org or follow him on Twitter 
at @J_McPherson1126.MEET THE EDITORSMONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
Monday - Friday
Appointments &
Walk-Ins AvailableGround Floor, Reitz Union
352-379-46868 AM TO 5 PMEnjoyable
Affordable
Seriously Good & in
Your Neighborhood
Professional 
haircuts & styles 
for men and women
Nicole Gomez
Nicole Gomez is a 22-year-old UF journalism 
ﬁ  fth-year supersenior who originally planned 
to have this whole college thing ﬁ  nished three months ago. Oops. No regrets, though. If she hadn’t taken her time deciding what to do with 
her career, she wouldn’t be here at the Alli-
gator as photo editor today. And she’s really, really glad to be here.When she isn’t shooting and editing photos, Nicole is often seen sweat-ing buckets while biking around Gainesville and walking barefoot outdoors while contem-plating the transience of all things (or trying not to think about it, depending on the day). Her career goals include ﬁ  guring out what to 
do with her life. The options include being a 
starving writer/photographer, being a success-ful writer/photographer, and just moving to Colorado to sell marijuana. If you want to in-form Nicole of something, ask her a question, make fun of her life choices or say anything at all, email her at ngomez@alligator.org or tweet at her @ngomez58.
MEET THE EDITORS
Emily Cochrane
Emily Cochrane is a 19-year-old journal-
ism junior and the metro editor at the Alliga-
tor for the Fall. Since writing a story about 
unicycles during her freshman year, she has 
bounced from section to section (including a brief stint in sports) until ﬁ  nding her home in the metro section. After a semester of chas-
ing after ﬁ  re trucks and police cars as the po-
lice writer, she is emotionally prepared to sit back and let other people decipher the police jargon. When she’s not surrounded by pic-tures and memories from China in her corner 
of the Alligator, Emily can be found painting, 
hugging pandas and singing Disney songs. She hopes to someday travel the world, craft-ing the stories of the people around her. If 
you have story ideas, emotions, or a need 
to chat, feel free to reach out to her at eco-chrane@alligator.org or follow her on Twit-ter at @ESCochrane. 
Ansley Pentz
Ansley Pentz thought she wanted to be a 
marine biologist. And then the journalism ju-
nior dissected a squid in eighth grade. What she knew was this: She liked to talk, she liked to listen and she liked people’s stories. After 
124 class credits and two semesters with the 
Alligator, the 20-year-old feels like she found her niche. Ansley enjoys writing stories about people who have pushed boundaries, exceeded expectations and impacted those around them. Her decision to study journalism is reafﬁ  rmed when she interviews passionate students. That, and being in the ex-frat-house Alligator ofﬁ  ce, surrounded by inquisitive and hilarious 
writers. When Ansley is not over-caffeinated in 
the ofﬁ  ce, you’ll ﬁ  nd her quoting John Green novels or daydreaming in her hammock. But most of the time, you’ll see Ansley neurotically scanning Twitter for story ideas at her Alliga-tor desk. Or she’ll be laughing so hard that no sound comes out. That happens a lot to her. Follow Ansley on Twitter at @ansley_pentz.Danielle Veenstra
Danielle Veenstra is a 20-year-old UF 
journalism junior and assistant photogra-phy editor at the Alligator this Fall.  With the hardened soul of a suburban school-girl, she will be taking action to provide 
top-notch photography with her camera, 
Genghis Ni-Khan. The fuel that keeps her ﬁ  nger-clicking stamina up is the ever-pop-ular college staple: pizza. She enjoys fall-ing off of surfboards, sidewalks and the occasional chair, which allows her to ﬁ  nd new angles and perceive the world in a new way. Taking this outlook on life and passing it through a camera lens is what 
she hopes will produce the best photos for 
a chance to work at National Geographic. Until she has a plane ticket for Sri Lanka, Veenstra will reside in a pocket corner of-ﬁ  ce at the Alligator. If you have any story ideas or want to nerd out over traveling, contact her at dveenstra@alligator.org or follow her on Twitter at @_Veenstra_.MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
CAMPUS
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A little rain couldn’t keep UF 
students and President Kent Fuchs 
away from The Swamp on Sunday as the university got ready for the Fall football season.
Before the second annual Rally 
in the Swamp, Fuchs took selfies with students and decided to com-memorate the event with a selfie of his own.
“This is my first year, so I’ve got 
to take a picture of you all — my first rally,” Fuchs said before snap-ping the photo of students cheering 
in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
The budding UF tradition gets 
students ready for football season 
by teaching them the gameday tra-ditions.
“I’m gonna be learning some, as 
well,” Fuchs said. 
Students learned chants like 
Mr. Two Bits, along with the clas-
sic right-over-left Gator Chomp. 
They also practiced singing the UF alma mater and “We Are the Boys,” where students put their arms around each other as they sing in the stadium, swaying from side to side.
Fuchs and football Coach Jim 
McElwain spoke to get students ex-
cited for the first game of the season 
Sept. 5 against New Mexico State. 
In his speech, Fuchs had three 
requests for students: cheer on the athletes, treat visitors with respect 
and be at the stadium “when we 
beat New Mexico State.”
He said UF administrators told 
him this was a major school-spirit event and stressed the significance of his attendance.
“It’s really important that the ad-
ministration have as much spirit as the students,” Fuchs said.
Preparations for this year’s rally 
took about six months, said Alicia Longworth, an assistant athletics 
director for marketing and promo-
tions for the University Athletic As-sociation.
“We had our first annual last 
year, and that was about a year in the making,” she said.
Because it was the second year 
the event was held, it was easier to plan, Longworth said. The event cost about $7,000 to $8,000 to ex-ecute.
Several stations served up 
enough Domino’s pizza for the first 3,000 students.
The UAA is planning to hold the 
event again next year, Longworth said. 
Students, like UF biology fresh-
man Megan Killer, said they en-joyed seeing university officials at the rally.
“I think it’s awesome that they’re 
involved with the student body,” the 18-year-old said.
Alex Everitt, a business manage-
ment freshman, said he thought it was fun learning about game-day events.
“It was kind of cool that they 
taught the traditions,” Everitt said.
The 18-year-old said he will be 
coming to the football games this Fall and is looking forward to com-ing to the rally next year.
 Fuchs said the Gators are ready 
for the upcoming season.
“We’re excited: new coach, new 
year,” Fuchs said. 
Students at the rally seemed to 
share that opinion. As the stands cleared, Gators started chanting: “Two bits, four bits, six bits, a dol-lar. All for the Gators, stand up and holler.”Rally in the Swamp trumps rain, Fuchs visits students
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Aaron Rampersad, a 21-year-old UF microbiology and nutritional sciences senior, shouts “Go Gators!” 
at the Rally in the Swamp event at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Sunday. 
14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
THE COLLEGE HELD ITS 
CONVOCATION FRIDAY.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
It was 1966 when Joan Golliday walked 
through the doors of what was then Santa Fe 
Junior College.
Almost 50 years later, Golliday sat in a chair 
in the Santa Fe College Fine Arts Hall during Friday’s Fall convocation. She sat with Doug Johnson, a retiree who worked as a dual en-
rollment counselor when the college opened its 
doors, and Santa Fe President Jackson Sasser to commemorate Santa Fe’s progress and growth.
Golliday recalled the day she ﬁ  rst taught as 
a math professor, not knowing what to expect or what kind of students she would encounter. The college opened expecting 500 students but got close to 900, she said.
“We didn’t know what we were getting 
into,” Golliday said.
From there, the classes evolved and the 
college grew. What started as an experiment 
turned into something bigger, thanks to the 
faculty, staff and professors who shared a com-mon dream, Johnson said.
“The experiment has worked,” he said, and 
then motioned his hand toward the audience of professors, faculty and staff. “And these are the 
people that are now carrying it on.”
During the ceremony, Sasser thanked the 
students, faculty and professors who he said 
helped the college get to where it is today — the top community college in the nation, a presti-
gious ranking given by the Aspen Institute ear-
lier this year.
“This is what No. 1 looks like,” Sasser said.Sasser also addressed the college’s new ini-
tiatives, including the proposal for two new four-year degrees, health information manage-ment and information systems technology.
Sasser also announced his plans to im-
prove the Blount Center once the needed funds are met — plans that include a three-story, 
50,000-square-foot facility, with classrooms 
and state-of-the-art labs. The upgrade to the center, which is located near the UF campus, “will serve East Gainesville at a higher level and then also the whole entrepreneur innova-
tion activity that’s going on downtown with the 
University of Florida,” he said.
Sasser also said the $800,000 award from 
the Aspen Institute would go toward student 
success projects. The college received an ad-
ditional $800,000 from the state legislature for the recognition and another $643,000 from the legislature and governor for achieving several performance goals.Santa Fe celebrates 50 years and looks to the future
NATIONAL
By The Associated Press
PLAINS, Ga. — The Sunday 
school lesson was familiar: When 
your burden grows heavy, ask God for strength. But the message carried a more powerful and personal mean-
ing than usual because of who deliv-
ered it: Jimmy Carter.
The 90-year-old former president 
taught Sunday school in his home-town for the ﬁ  rst time since he dis-
closed on Thursday that his cancer 
had spread to his brain.
With easygoing humor and his 
usual toothy smile, Carter gave two back-to-back Bible lessons to unusu-
ally large crowds totaling more than 
700 people — some of whom had 
traveled hundreds of miles — just 
three days after undergoing radiation treatment.
He spent less than ﬁ  ve minutes 
recapping his illness before saying, 
“That’s enough of that subject” and 
beginning the lesson on faith, love 
and relationships.
Carter said he and his wife of 69 
years, Rosalynn, resolved never go to sleep without settling their differ-
ences.
“Just being able to admit you 
MIGHT be mistaken and that the other person MIGHT be right” will improve a relationship, he said, 
prompting laughter from the crowd at Maranatha Baptist Church.
He encouraged his listeners to consider God a partner in their lives.
“Any time, we can just bow 
our heads and say, ‘God, I’m re-ally troubled. I ask you to give me the strength to bear whatever is on my shoulders and to bear whatever 
comes to me,’” Carter said.
The former peanut farmer and 
Georgia governor has been teach-
ing Sunday school for more than three decades at his small red-brick church, which has about 40 regular 
members. His appearance this time 
drew the biggest crowd members 
could recall, with about 460 people packed inside.
The turnout was so big that Cart-
er gave a second lesson at the nearby 
high school for about 250 people, 
and about 70 others had to be turned away. People seated underneath the stained-glass windows nodded 
when church member Jan Williams 
described those who managed to get a seat as “blessed.”
Carter entered and exited with-
out fanfare, wearing a gray suit. He paced across the front of the sanc-tuary as he spoke and occasionally returned to a podium to read aloud while wearing a pair of thin wire glasses. His wife sat nearby.
As listeners left the church, they 
proudly showed each other newly taken photos with the Carters.
Cricket Keating said Carter’s “ir-
repressible joy” made the trip from her home in Columbus, Ohio, worth-while. She said she felt humbled by Carter’s message.
“No matter how bad things are, 
we have company in this world,” she said.Carter’s cancer ﬁ  ght puts new meaning in old message
The Associated Press
Former President Jimmy Carter, left, sits with his wife Rosalynn as they pose for photos after Carter taught Sunday School class at Maranatha Baptist Church in his hometown Sunday.
Abortion rights 
activits protestMONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
Come in. Live well.
Vitamins,
Diet, Herbs, 
Sports 
Nutrition3914 SW Archer Rd. Gainesville FL, 32608 • 352 377 6020
50% oﬀ
Gold card renewal
Exp 10/31/15. 
Only valid at Butler Plaza location.
30% oﬀ
Any one GNC item
Exp 10/31/15. Not valid with gold 
card or any other oﬀer.
Only valid at Butler Plaza location.
I-75Archer Rd
Andrea Cornejo/Alligator Staff
A pro-abortion rights activist protests with her homemade “Every 
Uterus Deserves Healthcare” sign.
Andrea Cornejo/Alligator Staff
Fred Sower protests in front of Planned Parenthood off of 13th Street with his “Pro Choice and Proud” sign on Saturday. He has been an activist for 15 years.
Andrea Cornejo/Alligator Staff
Jane, an anti-abortion protester, holds a sign in front of Planned Parenthood. The crowd of protesters included about 30 anti-abortion activists and 25 pro-abortion rights protesters. About 50 people gathered in front of Planned Parenthood at 914 
NW 13th St. on Saturday to protest both for and against abortion.Photos by Andrea Cornejo16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
Build a career developing software that is used every day by 
hundreds, thousands, or even millions of people...
@MindtreeFlorida Facebook.com/MindtreeFlorida  @MindtreeFlorida
 @MindtreeFlorida
  www.mindtree.comcome code with us!By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Legislation aiming to allow guns on cam-
pus is back in the Florida Senate chamber.
Sen. Greg Evers ﬁ  led legislation earlier this 
month amending a Florida statute to allow 
concealed weapon license holders to open 
and conceal carry ﬁ  rearms on Florida cam-
puses — including Santa Fe College and UF.
The bill is currently under review by the 
Criminal Justice Committee. If approved, the change would take effect next July.
Under Florida law, individuals 18 years 
or older can store their guns only in vehicles while on university property, UF spokeswom-an Janine Sikes wrote in an email.
“UF has consistently opposed changes to 
existing state law that prohibits guns on cam-pus with limited exceptions,” Sikes said. “We look to law enforcement for recommenda-tions on matters of public safety. The State of Florida University Police Chiefs, including UF Police Chief Linda Stump, are united in oppo-sition to any legislation that would allow guns on campus.”
Santa Fe Police Chief Ed Book said the col-
lege would also oppose any such legislation.
Despite the administrative opposition, 
some students want ﬁ  rearm protection.
President of Students for Concealed Carry 
at UF Joshua Roe, 33, said he supports con-cealed carry on campus because of the protec-tion his ﬁ  rearm provides him.
“We have a very good police department at 
the University of Florida,” he said. But, with  
so many students, he said, it’s not possible for 
police ofﬁ  cers to protect everyone.
“The reality is that there’s no way they can 
personally secure and ensure the security of every individual on campus,” Roe said.Gun legislation back in Senate  By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
After two contentious semesters, 
Santa Fe College Student Senate en-joyed an uneventful summer.
While few resolutions were 
passed, the chamber’s leadership 
team changed, and the Senate presi-
dential position switched between three people.
Patriel Stapleton, who had won 
the election for Senate president at the last Spring Senate meeting, was forced to resign after Chief Justice Elana Gold determined the election was illegitimate due to procedure violation. 
Stapleton then ran for re-election 
against former parliamentarian Andy Alvarez in a chamber far smaller 
than during the previous election.
Unlike his previous run for presi-
dent in the Spring, in which few 
senators voted for him and many questioned his enthusiasm for the position, Alvarez won the re-elec-tion.
Many senators praised Alvarez’s leadership and said he helped Sen-ate move along smoothly as the chamber brought in and elected new members into its leadership team.
However, Alvarez stepped down 
after several weeks into the Summer term to accept a job offer, which left 
the Senate president seat empty once 
more.
For the third time in two semes-
ters, elections were held and Senator Carol Daugherty was elected.
Despite the changing presidents, 
the new pro tempore Matthew Pear-son said the Summer semester was still successful as it provided a good time for the new leadership team to bond as they began to prepare for the more hectic Fall semester.
“I feel like our leadership team 
here really just wants to serve this body and really wants to serve Sen-ate and the general Student Body and make this a really rewarding place,” Pearson said, his words echoing those of the Student Body president.
In a video message shown during 
Friday’s convocation, Student Body 
President Conor Flynn also said the 
new leadership in Student Govern-ment and Senate will aim to serve students this Fall.
“On behalf of the entire Student 
Government, we are here to serve you, our students and the commu-nity,” Flynn said.
Santa Fe Senate builds leadership team during summer 
CAMPUS
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
Ioannis Ziogas challenged UF administra-
tors to imagine taking care of a child on a graduate assistant’s salary — a salary he says is below the poverty level.
Ziogas, a political science graduate as-
sistant, is a member of the UF Graduate As-sistants United labor union, which met with three UF administrators Wednesday to discuss this year’s contract negotiations. 
The group hopes to make graduate assis-
tants’ wages ﬂ  at and their fees percentage-based. 
While the graduate assistants argued that 
they and their peers are paid below the pov-
erty level, Bill Connellan, chief negotiator for UF, said they are part-time workers and usual-
ly are only working during the academic year.
“I don’t buy that argument,” Connellan 
said of GAU’s claim that graduate assistants live in poverty. 
He said the GAU can confuse the public 
about what UF graduate assistants’ pay is like.
But anthropology graduate assistant Vene-
tia Ponds said she doesn’t think GAU is mis-leading anyone.  
If UF wants to be a top-10 university, 
Ponds said the university has to pay graduate assistants like top-tier schools do.
However, Connellan said he appreciated 
GAU’s creativity at addressing the wage and fee situations. 
He said he’d work to give two or three 
good offers for pay, instead of many revisions to the current contracts.GAU negotiates contracts“On behalf of the entire 
Student Government, we are 
here to serve you, our students 
and the community.”
Conor Flynn
Santa Fe Student Body PresidentBy Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Standing at the podium, Nailah 
Summers fought back tears as she 
listed names.
Sandra Bland. Freddie Gray. Wal-
ter Scott.
“I could obviously go on,” the ac-
tivist said, her voice breaking, “and 
hope that a list of names alone would 
inspire action. But I know better.”
Her speech was one of many as 
activists, politicians and more dis-cussed the history of black oppres-
sion and racism and what to do with 
Confederate symbols and monuments during a meeting Saturday at Santa Fe College’s Blount Center.
While Summers and others fo-
cused on black oppression at the beginning of the meeting, the discus-sion eventually focused on the statue of a Confederate soldier in downtown 
Gainesville.
County Commissioner Robert Hutchinson said he had not yet decid-
ed on the statue’s fate but proposed using private money to relocate it.
“I think as a community, if we 
want to move it, we need to raise the money to do it,” Hutchinson said, adding that he would write the ﬁ  rst check.
Hutchinson said he felt the county 
money that would be spent on the re-location “ought to be spent on litera-cy, health care and other things that 
truly are business of government.”
Ed Emery, a District 3 congressio-
nal candidate, said he believed that 
those who put it there should remove it.
“The Alachua County Government 
didn’t put it there, they accepted it,” Emery said. “White people put it there. I think white people need to take it away.”MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   17
$2
99
/lb
Fresh Boneless 
Center Cut Pork 
Loin Chops
$2
29
/lb
Fresh Boneless 
Skinless Chicken 
Breast
Straight from our very 
own farm. All natural, 
no hormones.
$6
99
/lb
Black Angus
Ground Beef
$6
99
/lb
Fresh Salmon 
Fillets
Salted/Unsalted/
Cajun
$2
69
/lb
Roasted 
Peanuts
89
¢
/lb
Sweet Vidalia 
Onions
Reg $1.89
79
¢
Powerade
Large Bulk 
Idaho 
Potatoes
Reg $14.99
Red Stripe
$6
99
69
¢
/lb
Watermelon
Reg $10.99
Seeded or Seedless
Coney Island 
Hard Root Beer
Mini Sweet 
Peppers
2 for
$6
00
2 for
$6
00
$3
99
/1 lb pkg
/14oz
/half gal
/12pk 
bottles
/12pk 
bottles
/32oz 
bottle
/6pk 
cans
/750ml
 /750ml
/6pk 
bottles
/1 lb pkg
$3
/1 lb pkg
$3
each
Fresh 
Strawberries
Reg $14.99
 Reg $9.99-10.99
SWAMP HEAD
NO GMOS
$8
99
 $8
99
$8
99
 $7
99
Blue Moon 
Summer
Big Nose, Stump 
Knocker, Wild Night
Cases Available
 All Quarts
1%, 2%, & Fat Free
99
 /14oz
99
 /14oz
¢
Vitasoy Tofu
extra firm & firm
Banrock
Cabernet & Chiraz
Crane Lake
Merlot & Chardonnay
Stonyfield 
Organic Yogurt
$3
99
Organic Valley 
Cow’s Milk
$3
/750ml
$3
/750ml
99
$3
/750ml
$3
/750ml
99
wards@wardsgainesville.com • wardsgainesville.com • 352-372-1741
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK  •  MON-SAT 8AM-8PM  •  SUN 9AM-7PM
Valid 8/24 - 9/1Love Gainesville
Support Local 
FarmersGainesville’s 
only true local 
market since 
1951!
Alligator File Photo
Capt. Brian Helmerson of the Gainesville Police Department moves on July 9 to separate protesters 
on the site of a monument on the corner of West University Avenue and North Main Street dedicated to fallen Confederate soldiers.
Activists discuss black oppression, confederate statue
“I think as a community, if we want 
to move it, we need to raise the 
money to do it.”
Robert Hutchinson
County Commissioner18   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
Editor’s Note: A version of this 
story originally appeared in the July 23 edition of the Alligator. 
Patricia Potestades
Alligator Staff Writer
ppotestades@alligator.org 
The day UF admissions released 
its decisions for freshmen applica-
tions was the day Stephanie Latour 
had been waiting for. UF was her 
dream school, and she couldn’t wait to see the results. 
But when she opened the ad-
missions letter, she got an answer she didn’t expect.
The letter told her she was not 
offered admission to the program she applied for, but she was in-
stead offered admission into UF’s 
Pathway to Campus Enrollment program, where students must first complete 60 credits in UF Online 
before they can transition to the UF 
residential campus.
“I was kind of disappointed at 
first,” Latour, 18, said. “I took it as a rejection.”
That was the first time she had 
ever heard about the PaCE pro-gram, but after doing some more research and speaking to a UF ad-
viser, Latour decided to accept the 
offer.
“I think the major difficulty 
was the lack of understanding on the part of the students given the opportunity,” said Andrew Mc-
Cullough, the associate provost of 
teaching and technology.
For many students and parents, 
the decision letter was the first time they had ever heard of the 
program, he said.
Out of the 3,118 offered admis-
sion for PaCE only 273 accepted 
the offer, said Andrea Felder, the 
director of freshman and interna-
tional admissions. 
“We have already made chang-
es,” she said. 
This year’s applicants will be 
more aware of their options, she said.
For Latour, accepting PaCE ad-
mission was the best option. She 
graduated high school with a lot of 
college credits, so she would only have to spend the minimum of two semesters taking online classes before being able to transition to 
campus. 
If she decided to go with a dif-
ferent university and transfer to 
UF later, that would take at least 
two years, and she still wouldn’t 
be guaranteed admission into her dream school, she said.
“The underlying rationale was 
to provide access to those who 
would like to become a Gator but 
were not admitted in the residence program because we ran out of space,” McCollough said.
While taking the online portion of the program, PaCE students will 
pay the UF Online tuition amount, 
which is 75 percent of the cost of regular tuition. Once they transi-tion to campus, they will begin to pay regular tuition, Felder said. 
While the program offers more 
than 60 majors from seven colleges at UF, it provides less flexibility when it comes to switching majors.
If PaCE students decide to 
switch majors, they need to choose a major offered by PaCE or UF On-line. Those who otherwise major in programs outside of PaCE must ap-
ply to UF as a regular transfer after 
completing their online credits. 
“To do it, you definitely have to 
be clear in what you want,” Latour 
said, adding that PaCE may not be 
the right choice for everyone. Confusion surrounds PaCE programCAMPUS
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Although Florida hasn’t had a 
West Nile virus epidemic, UF en-
tomology researchers are ready in case the state’s luck runs out.
As of Aug. 11, Florida has had 
four cases of West Nile virus, ac-cording to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
With environmental conditions 
like Florida’s warm, humid weath-er, the state is highly susceptible to an epidemic, said Jonathan Day, a medical entomology professor at UF. 
On average, Florida sees any-
where from five to 25 cases each year, he said. 
“Many years we see only a 
handful of human cases,” Day said. 
However, Day warned this 
could change. 
“Everywhere you would expect 
to see an epidemic there has been 
(one), except Florida,” Day said. 
Although an epidemic is likely 
in the future, Day said there won’t 
be one this year. 
One way he and other UF en-
tomology professors determine the likelihood of an epidemic is to track wild bird populations. Most baby birds are born in the spring, 
right before the West Nile virus’ peak season, which lasts from June 
to October, Day said.
By the middle of June, UF re-
searchers had a better idea of the risk, he said. 
Baby birds not immune to West 
Nile virus can host the disease and give it to mosquitoes. Those mos-quitoes can go on to infect chick-ens, horses and humans, he said.
Because of this, UF entomolo-
gists use the number of baby birds born to determine the potential for an epidemic.
UF entomologists also take 
blood samples from mosquitoes and chickens after they’ve been in fields.
“If we get an epidemic in Flor-
ida like they had in Colorado (in 
2003), we could have 10,000 cas-
es,” Day said.
On Aug. 12, the health depart-
ment in Orange County, Florida, issued a West Nile advisory after several chickens tested positive for the virus.
Based on preliminary results, 
there could also be outbreaks in 
Hillsborough and Pinellas Coun-
ties, Day said. Residents outside of Hillsborough, Pinellas and Orange Counties don’t need to be con-cerned, but they should be aware, he said.UF researchers prepare 
for West Nile outbreak
Colleges included in 
the PaCE program:
• College of Agriculture 
 and Life Sciences
• College of Design, 
 Construction and Planning
• College of Journalism 
 and Communications
• College of Health 
 and Human Performance
• College of Liberal Arts 
 and Sciences
• College of the Arts
• Warrington College 
 of Business AdministrationMONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
ReDnEcK 
ReDnEcK 
         EgG RoLlS
         EgG RoLlS
Offer good for one order of free 
Offer good for one order of free 
Redneck Egg Rolls with purchase 
Redneck Egg Rolls with purchase 
of an entree. Valid at Archer, 
of an entree. Valid at Archer, 
39th, and Waldo Gainesville 
39th, and Waldo Gainesville 
of an entree. Valid at Archer, 
39th, and Waldo Gainesville 
of an entree. Valid at Archer, 
locations only.  Certificate has 
locations only.  Certificate has 
no cash value. Offer is not 
no cash value. Offer is not 
valid with any other promotion, 
valid with any other promotion, 
offer or discount. One 
certificate per table, per 
certificate per table, per 
visit. Cannot be sold, 
visit. Cannot be sold, 
reproduced or exchanged. Valid 
reproduced or exchanged. Valid 
through September 31, 2015.
through September 31, 2015.
reproduced or exchanged. Valid 
through September 31, 2015.
reproduced or exchanged. Valid 
POS-611
POS-611
   FrEe 
   FrEe 
 ReDnEcK 
         EgG RoLlS
         EgG RoLlS
Offer good for one order of free 
Offer good for one order of free 
Redneck Egg Rolls with purchase 
Redneck Egg Rolls with purchase 
of an entree. Valid at Archer, 
of an entree. Valid at Archer, 
39th, and Waldo Gainesville 
39th, and Waldo Gainesville 
of an entree. Valid at Archer, 
39th, and Waldo Gainesville 
of an entree. Valid at Archer, 
locations only.  Certificate has 
locations only.  Certificate has 
locations only.  Certificate has 
no cash value. Offer is not 
no cash value. Offer is not 
valid with any other promotion, 
valid with any other promotion, 
offer or discount. One 
offer or discount. One 
certificate per table, per 
certificate per table, per 
visit. Cannot be sold, 
visit. Cannot be sold, 
reproduced or exchanged. Valid 
reproduced or exchanged. Valid 
through September 31, 2015.
through September 31, 2015.
reproduced or exchanged. Valid 
through September 31, 2015.
reproduced or exchanged. Valid 
reproduced or exchanged. Valid 
through September 31, 2015.
reproduced or exchanged. Valid 
Tim Paletti
Your Key to Freedom
Professional,
    trustworthy service
For the peopleOver 5,000 Agents
NationwideBondsman / UF Alumnus
352 222-8866 or 386 454-3573
NATIONWIDEBAILBONDS.NETAAA
Headquartered in Alachua County 4 decades
Editor’s Note: A version of this 
story originally appeared in the July 28 edition of the Alligator. 
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
From now on, April 17 will be 
known as Josh Greenberg Day in 
Gainesville.
People will still be able to cele-
brate his birthday for years to come.
Mayor Ed Braddy announced the 
proclamation July 24 at the Phil-lips Center for the Performing Arts, where hundreds of people gathered to celebrate Greenberg’s life. Green-berg, a UF alumnus, co-founder of 
Grooveshark Music and a man with 
many friends, was found dead on July 19 by his girlfriend. The cause of death remains unknown. He was 28.
In the lobby of the Phillips Cen-
ter, framed photos depicted the life of Greenberg, from his curly-haired toddler days to a man with 
a full-grown beard. He’s smiling in 
every single one. Awards peppered the white-cloth tables. He got third place in fourth grade in an Einstein Math Meet in 1997. An award titled “I Broke the Server” sat among the gifts he received for speaking at 
events. Even after his death, the ac-
colades kept coming in. 
Phoebe Cade Miles of the Cade 
Museum for Creativity and Inven-tion announced through a recorded video message that a sculpture of Greenberg will join the museum’s outdoor exhibit.
Using an outline of his proﬁ  le, it 
will double as a vase to represent all the things he ﬁ  lled his life with, and his face, to remember the man who helped Gainesville become a city of innovation, she said.
On the tables in the lobby, two 
white boxes read “Please leave a memory,” encouraging everyone to share an experience or encounter 
with Greenberg.  Greenberg helped 
usher in the innovation craze in Gainesville, Braddy said.
Greenberg’s vision for Gainesville 
was to turn it into a hub of talent, Braddy said. Former UF President Bernie Machen said he believes Josh’s greatest gift was mentoring and teaching other local start-up 
companies.
“We can’t make sense of Josh’s loss,” Machen said. “It bafﬂ  es me, 
and it leaves a hole in my heart.”
But everyone here, he said, can 
be thankful for getting to know him, his impact on UF and the love and care he showed to everyone.  Ma-chen said every student offered something unique.
“And boy, was that true of Josh,” he said. Innovation Square, just east of UF’s campus, is a tribute to him, Machen said. Inﬁ  nity Hall, a resi-
dential hall set to open in the square 
in Fall, will honor Greenberg, serv-ing as an everlasting memory to a man who inspired, encouraged and positively impacted so many people, Machen added.“Its concept and its design is to 
produce more Josh Greenbergs,” he said.
Sam Tarantino, who co-founded 
Grooveshark with Greenberg, fought back tears as he recounted the nine and a half years that he knew him.
They spoke every day, he said.“Our relationship was about as 
close to a married couple as you can get, in the most platonic way pos-sible, of course,” Tarantino joked.  
We must continue what Josh 
started, Tarantino said. Carry and pass on the torch of caring; that’s what he would have wanted. After his speech, Tarantino poured his heart out over a piano while he sang “You Raise Me Up,” with two others on a violin and cello. Ken McGurn, a mentor for Greenberg, said he was 
awed by the lanky kid whose aspira-
tions and kindness saw no end.
“Josh was a nice guy,” he said. 
“Josh will not be forgotten.”
In the lobby, framed photos of 
Greenberg invited friends to leave behind a message around the pic-ture. On the top left corner of one, someone wrote: “Josh. Thanks for 
taking a chance on me. I don’t know 
who I’d be without you.”
Grooveshark co-founder leaves behind a legacy 
Melissa Gomez/Alligator Staff
Sam T arantino (left), co-founder of Grooveshark, a Gainesville-
based music streaming service, speaks to family and friends of fel-low co-founder Josh Greenberg, who was found dead on July 19.
CAMPUS
Editor’s Note: A version of this story originally appeared in the July 14 edition of the Alligator. 
By Patricia Potestades
Alligator Staff Writer
ppotestades@alligator.org
The alcohol education tutorial incoming 
students are required to complete received a 
major upgrade this semester.
“Think About It” is the name of UF’s new online education module, which now in-
cludes training on a broader range of safety 
issues — such as sexual harassment, dating violence and stalking — rather than focusing speciﬁ  cally on drinking.
Chris Loschiavo, deputy title IX coordina-
tor for students, said recent cases of violence against women have led the UF Dean of Stu-dents Ofﬁ  ce to focus on prevention.
The ofﬁ  ce started researching new educa-
tional programs focused on prevention about a year ago. This particular program, distrib-uted by CampusClarity, collects student sur-
vey responses anonymously and allows the 
university to compare itself to other colleges nationwide.
“We’re working really hard here to be a 
model campus,” Loschiavo said.
Unlike the alcohol education module, 
“Think About It” includes more videos and interactive material.
“The data shows that students actually 
change behavior based on what they learned in the module,” said Jen Day Shaw, the UF associate vice president and dean of students.
The annual cost for the program is 
$32,250, which comes from the Division of Student Affairs budget, said Kim Pace, the as-sistant vice president for Student Affairs, in an email.
Elaine Khoo, a 21-year-old public relations 
senior, said she doesn’t remember most of the information from the alcohol education module she completed her freshman year.
“I think it’s a good idea that UF is taking a 
stand,” Khoo said.New online module includes topics like sexual harassmentMONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   21 20   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
Editor’s Note: A version of this story 
originally appeared in the July 30 edition of the Alligator. 
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
UF Student Body Treasurer Nicholas Carré 
likes to compare Student Government to a 
juicy piece of steak.
He compared SG to a steak because it pro-
vides nutrients; the conference is a side of cole-
slaw or mashed potatoes to add to the whole-
someness.“I think the plate of food will taste better as 
the year goes on,” he said.
Carré, along with six other members of SG, 
had the opportunity to travel to Alabama July 25 and 26 to attend the annual Southeastern Conference Exchange, where UF SG took home all three awards it was nominated for.
UF SG received the SEC Outstanding Legis-
lation award for its 2013 resolution in support of tuition equity for undocumented students; the Student Government of the Year award for the 2014-2015 year; and Student Government 
Leader of the Year, awarded to former UF Stu-
dent Body president Cory Yeffet.
Yeffet said he was honored to be nominat-
ed, but he didn’t expect to win.He said he was proud of UF taking home 
the Student Government of the Year award, be-cause the changes and programs were a group 
effort.
“That to me is so much more fulﬁ  lling than 
an individual award,” he said.
Programs from the 2014-2015 SG year in-
cluded: the partnership between UF and Uber, 
which offers students a 50 percent discount within a designated area and time; the Walk Safe program, which was implemented after a string of assaults on campus; and the addition 
of four SNAP vans.
The goal was to enhance student safety, 
Yeffet said.
Being able to secure a $10 million budget to renovate Newell Hall to provide students with 
more study space was also an achievement for SG, he added.
UF Senate President Davis Bean, one of the 
seven members who attended the conference, said it was a productive trip that gave them the chance to observe other SG systems.
UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-
Rasines, who also attended the trip, said it made her conﬁ  dent SG can come together to collaborate on ideas and initiatives for the up-coming year.
Carré congratulated the senators at the 
meeting for the 2016-2017 budget, which he said reﬂ  ects the balance of cost associated with expanding student services. UF Student Government successful at SEC conference  CAMPUS
By Gabriella Nuñez 
and Elise Engle
Alligator Writers
This Fall, many study dates will be moved 
from Club West to Marston’s basement.
Marston Science Library has taken over 
Library West’s 24/5 hours, and students are adjusting to the change. 
“It’s really annoying because West is 
West. Why would they change it?” said 19-year-old Alexandra Uchdorf. 
Arlian Smith, a student assistant at Mar-
ston, said the library was becoming more popular than West. 
“With the newly renovated ﬁ  rst and sec-
ond ﬂ  oors, and a Starbucks, it isn’t such a horrible idea to have Marston 24/5,” she said.
And with about 2,200 seats, there is more 
space for students. Library West had only 1,400 seats.
Nicholas Carré, the UF Student Body 
Treasurer, said he got involved in the dis-cussion after reaching out to the libraries at the beginning of his term in Spring. They re-sponded with the idea of a switch.
“I was thrown off because I wasn’t neces-sarily reaching out to them to talk to them about any switches but the budget,” Carré said. “No one really knew about it.”
Although Marston will be open overnight, 
Smith said Federal Work Study students, like herself, don’t have to work night shifts.
Carré said Student Government funds the 
overnight hours, but the library could choose 
to keep the late hours. Students had already 
been transitioning to Club Marston on their own.
“I used to go to West because I thought 
that was the place to go, but it was too packed,” said UF health science sophomore Stefanie Perez. “Now I go to Marston be-cause it’s more central.”
This school year is just a trial period, as 
the switch can be made again, Smith said. 
A survey ran on library computers asked 
students if they preferred Marston or Library West, said Patrick Reakes, the associate dean for scholarly resources and services at 
George A. Smathers libraries. 
About 5,000 students participated in the 
survey, and he said the results were not dras-
tically in favor of one library over the other.
“I don’t really have a preference, as long 
as it’s quiet,” Uchdorf said. UF students transition from nights at Library West to Marston22   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
Editor’s Note: A version of this 
story originally appeared in the Aug. 6 edition of the Alligator. 
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Upon first glance, Joselin Pa-
dron-Rasines seems quiet and re-
served.
But that is not how UF’s Student 
Body president is looking to work during her 12 months in office.
Padron-Rasines, 21, took office 
April 22 and is already making the most of her first semester as presi-dent.
During her first three months 
in office, Padron-Rasines, along 
with her Diversity Affairs Secre-
tary Kalyani Hawaldar, has worked with administration members to implement gender-neutral single-
stall bathrooms in Cypress Hall, a 
residence hall set to open this Fall.
Padron-Rasines said she hopes 
to have signage change for three single-stall bathrooms in Peabody 
Hall as well as signage change at 
the Institute of Black Culture and the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Culture by the end of the Fall se-
mester.
“I think we were both pleasant-
ly surprised with how responsive 
the university has been toward this issue,” Padron-Rasines said.When approved, the change 
will only affect single-stall bath-rooms on campus, Hawaldar said.
Summer was the perfect time 
to make the proposal, she said, because there were less students 
on campus, and administration 
members she had to work with — including members from the Housing Department, Department 
of Student Affairs, Department of 
Business Affairs and the Physical Plant Department, among others — were still planning for the Fall and Spring semesters.
“I was like, ‘We have to have 
this done as early as possible’ be-cause if it’s Fall, they’re going to be bogged down with other projects 
that need to happen,” she said.
Padron-Rasines and Hawaldar 
led a 10-student committee to get 
the task done.
The committee met once a week 
compiling research and reaching out to other colleges that already have gender-neutral bathrooms (including Florida International 
University and the University of 
North Florida) to find out what it took for them to implement gen-der-neutral bathrooms on campus, Hawaldar said.
And as she prepares for her first 
Fall semester, Padron-Rasines will be staying busy.  In addition to continuing the push to implement 
more gender-neutral bathrooms on campus, Padron-Rasines has already sent out a transportation 
survey to students on July 31 to find out how the university can im-prove campus safety, a project she will continue in the Fall.
The survey asks students about 
current transportation services of-fered — SNAP, RTS, Later Gator, Walk Safe, Gotcha Rides and Uber. 
Padron-Rasines said the survey 
will be used to help gauge whether to enhance current options or see if the university needs to implement other options.
In addition, she is working on 
President Kent Fuchs’ goal-setting task force and starting to work on a bike-sharing task force, which she 
said is more of a long-term project. 
Padron-Rasines also plans to 
start a biweekly coffee get-together 
called “Java with Jos” to give stu-dents an opportunity to meet with 
her outside of the normal office set-
ting.
Ultimately, Padron-Rasines 
knows her goal is to serve the stu-
dents, and she wants the students 
to know she is there for them.
“I really want to make my presi-
dency an interactive one where students feel comfortable and 
know their Student Body president 
is someone they can talk with,” Padron-Rasines said. “I don’t want to be out of touch.”Padron-Rasines has big plans for Student Body in Fall
Editor’s Note: A version of this story 
originally appeared in the July 23 edition of the Alligator. 
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
UF President Kent Fuchs said he drinks 
between five and 10 cups of coffee every 
day.
Some of it comes from one of the five 
Starbucks on campus, a locale he considers a sanctuary.
Some of it he makes at home in an 
espresso machine he received as a gift from former students.
And while Fuchs’ affinity for the caf-
feinated beverage is hard to tell behind his calm and collected demeanor, his pas-
sion for interacting with students is hard 
to miss.
Since becoming UF’s 12th president in 
January, Fuchs has made it a goal to meet 
as many students as possible.
Eight months later, Fuchs admits he has 
yet to meet everyone but said he makes it 
a purpose to be as visible on campus as possible.
He walks around campus, introducing 
himself to anyone he sees.
He keeps up to date with his nearly 
5,000 Twitter followers and exchanges 
emails with students on a daily basis.
And he’s not afraid to take a selfie when asked.
“I feel like I’ve really been able to get 
a sense of the students, and I think the 
students know that I am intentionally ac-cessible,” Fuchs said. “That sets a tone about the university that the administra-
tion cares.”
Student Body President Joselin Padron-
Rasines said she has enjoyed working with 
Fuchs, who she described as vibrant and 
outgoing.“He’s a really interactive president with 
the Student Body,” Padron-Rasines said. 
“He’s not tucked away in his office in Ti-gert Hall. He makes an effort to connect with the students.”
As Fuchs prepares for his first Fall se-
mester as president, he said he plans to continue building relationships.
In addition to building better personal 
relationships with the state legislatures, Fuchs said he wants to meet more exten-sively with UF’s deans and department chairs in order to better find out each col-lege’s immediate and long-term goals.“I’m their spokesman,” Fuchs said. 
“When I go out and meet with alumni, I’m speaking on (their) behalf. …Therefore, I want to spend more time with them.”
Fuchs also said he is excited to see how 
his goal-setting task force, which is set to release a draft of its goals Friday, progress-es.
“I’m hoping they’re willing to work 
throughout the Fall on this,” Fuchs said, “and that this will give us a clear roadmap and timeline of what we want to accom-plish on behalf of the university.”
Fuchs said he still has a lot to learn as 
he transitions to the final half of his first year as UF’s president.
“But if anything, that’s one of the most 
enjoyable parts of my job,” he said.
And as Fuchs continues to learn, he’ll 
more than likely have a cup of coffee by his side as he takes in everything.
“A university is only as strong as its cof-
fee,” Fuchs said.Kent Fuchs: The man behind the coffee cup Jordan McPherson/Alligator Staff
UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines speaks during 
the Aug. 4 Student Senate meeting.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF president Kent Fuchs explains the premise of his goal-setting committee to a room of about 100 UF students at the start of the student town hall meeting on July 7 .
He drinks about five cups
Fun Fuchs Facts
• As he revealed during the Spring 
commencement ceremony, he has Siri on his iPhone refer to 
him as “Foxy Gator. ”
• His favorite restaurants in 
Gainesville, at least for now, are Reggae Shack and Southern 
Charm.MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   23
daily green • 436 SE 2nd street, gainesville fl 32601
352-226-8288 • visit www.dailygreendowntown.orgWheatgrassShotsOrganic Juice &
Smoothie BarVegan & 
Gluten Free OptionsSavory waffle cones 
& sandwiches
Soups & SaladsLocal sweets 
& drinks
Like us on Facebook and get a discountDraft 
Kombuchaand 
MicrobrewsWeekend brunch & 
mimosa specialsNew online ordering and drive thru & pick-up coming soon
Nook & Cranny Records 
presents
Fri 8/28 8pm
Shermy D
& The Luscious Ones
One Drop (REUNION!)
Dear Abbey
Gris Gris Boys
Shawn ManleySat 8/29 9pm
The Duppies
Doom Patrol
Gorilla Candy
Jenarchy
210 SW 2ND AVE
HighDiveGville.com
NandCRecords.com
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA
WHEN : November 6th, 2015 at 7 p.m.
WHERE:  Flavet Field, University of Florida
Limited tickets at www.gatorgrowl.org!
Sponsored by:
Editor’s Note: A version of this story origi-
nally appeared in the August 4 edition of the Alligator. 
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer            
mgomez@alligator.org
On Aug. 13, UF became one of the ﬁ  rst uni-
versities in the nation to take a step toward 
building a safer campus.
UF participated in the trial program of 32 
National Campus Safety Initiative, an initia-
tive funded by the VTV Family Foundation, 
victims and survivors of the Virginia Tech shooting in April 2007, where 32 people were shot and killed. The foundation was founded  to keep campus shootings from happening.
The initiative is an online self-assess-
ment survey that covers nine topics to show schools where additional resources can be added, said Jen Day Shaw, associate vice 
president and dean of students at UF. You 
think about the families who lost their kids, sisters or brothers, Day Shaw said. They want to help increase campus safety so no family has to go through that ever again.
“You can’t tackle everything at once, but 
you can prioritize what you want to tackle 
ﬁ  rst,” Day Shaw said. 
For UF, campus safety is a priority, she 
added. The nine areas of concern are alco-
hol and other drugs, campus public safety, emergency management, hazing, missing students, physical security, sexual violence, threat assessment and mental health.
“It’s a tremendous opportunity to ad-
vance campus safety,” said S. Daniel Carter, 
project director of the initiative. The series of 
250 questions will be covered by the expert of each ﬁ  eld. 
An institution that participates in the pro-
grams shows it’s willing to take that step toward creating a safer place for students, Carter said. A college’s or university’s par-ticipation is conﬁ  dential, but schools can choose to announce their involvement, he 
added. UF chose to be one of the ﬁ  rst univer-
sities to launch the program.
“Campuses across the country are going 
to be safer,” Carter said, “and UF is leading the way.”UF one of ﬁ  rst to participate 
in campus-safety projectLOCAL
Editor’s Note: A version of this story origi-
nally appeared in the May 19 edition of the Alligator. 
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer            
mgomez@alligator.org
   Gavin Doran found inspiration through 
the humans of Gainesville.
The 23-year-old graduated UF in May with 
a bachelor’s in food and resource economics.
He also created and nurtured the Humans 
of Gainesville Facebook page for the past year 
and a half.
But May 18, the UF alumnus left 
Gainesville for southwest Florida to work for Gartner, a technology company he interned for. 
Doran fell in love with photography after 
receiving his ﬁ  rst camera. As a kid, he was naturally creative and used art as an outlet. 
The Florida native moved to Gainesville at 18.
“I started it as more of a creative outlet,” 
he said of Humans of Gainesville, and it went 
from there. He chose to paint a portrait of the city with his camera.
He met his ﬁ  rst subject at Santa Fe College, where a man with a handlebar mustache in the bookstore caught his eye. Doran made his ﬁ  rst post on Jan. 9, 2014. Through his proj-ect, Doran said he found himself humbled by the humans who offered intimate stories and a glance into their lives.
“I learned a lot from the different people 
that I interviewed, a lot about their lives,” Doran said. “I learned a little about myself as well.”
Doran would take a day or two out of the 
week and spend hours looking for subjects. You have to get used to people rejecting you, Doran said, and expect it. But he found most people were forthcoming with their stories, intrigued by his Canon 5D Mark III that he 
carried everywhere.
“For someone with no formal training of 
photography, his work was stunning,” said 
John Kaplan, a UF photojournalism professor and one of Doran’s former teachers.
Kaplan, a Pulitzer Prize-winning photo- 
journalist, described Doran as a natural tal-ent whose inventive and creative nature advanced his photography. He said Doran’s 
critical eye to his own photography marks 
him as an emerging photographer.
“He possesses a great curiosity,” Kaplan 
said, “and really cares about people.”  Humans of GNV photog leaves24   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
CAMPUS
Editor’s Note: A version of this 
story originally appeared in the July 2 edition of the Alligator. 
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
Twelve sunflowers, an orchid, a 
potted plant and a box.
This is a list of the gifts from the 
administration and old friends that 
Laura Ann Rosenbury received on her first day as the new dean of 
UF’s Levin College of Law.
When she opened the box the 
morning of July 1, she burst into 
laughter.
It was a framed New Yorker car-
toon, one she implements often in her teachings, she said.
Pictured is a squid working a 
lunch line with a confused custom-
er looking on with the caption, “He 
feels he can do more good within the system.”
A perfect first-day-of-work gift, 
Rosenbury said.
It hangs across a wall in her 
office, alongside the three sets of flowers.
Rosenbury, 45, began her role 
as the first permanent female dean of UF’s Levin College of Law on July 1.
“I’m glad to finally be begin-
ning,” said Rosenbury, who drove 
to Gainesville on Monday.
Rosenbury accepted the offer in 
late April, with a starting salary of 
$350,000.
After graduating from Harvard 
Law School in 1997 and practic-ing law for five years, Rosenbury joined the Washington University Law School’s faculty and was vice 
dean before coming to UF.
This past summer, Rosenbury 
traveled to Shanghai, China, for 
a conference about feminism and 
law in the U.S. and Asia while 
teaching an online course.
Rosenbury replaced interim 
dean George L. Dawson, who re-tired after 34 years at UF as a law 
professor.
Dawson, who saw her speak to 
a group of alumni, said he was im-
pressed by her enthusiasm about 
the job.
“I think she’s clearly committed 
to the job and advancing the law 
school,” Dawson said.
Robbie Cusmano, a 25-year-old 
who just finished his last semester at Levin, had the chance to sit in on the faculty and student discus-sions that reviewed the 14 final-ists for the positions back in late March.
Rosenbury sold her vision for 
the future of the law school, Cus-mano said, who watched Rosen-bury speak about her qualifications and asked her questions.
“Rosenbury really went above 
and beyond,” Cusmano said.
He admitted to being a little 
jealous of current students who now have the opportunity work 
with her directly, but he is excited 
for the future of the law school with Rosenbury.
“She’s going to bring a lot to the 
table,” he said.  
Rosenbury’s day began with an 
8 a.m. budget meeting with admin-istrators. 
At 9 a.m., she returned to her of-
fice, where she met with a number of faculty and alumni who stopped by and welcomed her, she said.
Rosenbury said she looks for-
ward to getting settled in and meeting with each faculty member of the law school individually by mid-September.
“It’s the faculty who will be 
most influential in educating the students and helping us define what’s possible going into the fu-ture,” Rosenbury said.UF welcomes its first permanent female law dean
Editor’s Note: A version of this story 
originally appeared in the July 30 edition of the Alligator. 
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
Tania Rivera had been out of jail for less 
than a week, and she decided to go back.
In a grassy area near the bland build-
ings and barbed-wire fences of the Alachua 
County Jail, the 23-year-old smiles with her 
son and two big dogs.
For about nine weeks, Rivera worked 
with a boxer, named Barney Collier, as part 
of Alachua County’s Paws on Parole. The program works with well-behaved inmates, like Rivera, who are selected to train dogs from Alachua County Animal Services.
At July 29’s program graduation cer-
emony for Barney and his dog friend, Rol-lin Hand, Rivera watched Barney play with his adoptive family. Barney’s new adoptive 
brothers are a group of four elementary-
aged boys who cooed and squealed as they showered him in hugs and giggles.
“He’s going home,” Rivera said. “I’m so 
sad. He’s leaving me.”
But Rivera was smiling as she said it.  The boys, who are just older than Ri-
vera’s son, laughed as they pushed yel-low Minion sunglasses onto the slobbering pooch’s face. Rivera laughed, too.
The ceremony wasn’t just for the dogs, 
though.
As the trainers who taught the dogs ba-
sic commands and socialized them, the fe-male inmates are celebrated, too.
Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell 
said the women who graduate from the program learn patience and nurturing skills, which help them get jobs and stabi-lize their lives.Of the 42 total women to go through the 
program, only eight returned to jail, said the program’s main corrections officer, Debra Scott.
After the jail earned the grant that started 
the program, it was able to work solely off donations from events, said Hilary Hynes, the ACAS public education coordinator.  
With 80 percent of inmates not return-
ing to jail, Darnell said the program is a success.
“That’s a great — from a business stand-
point — return on investment,” she said.
Former inmates like Rivera, who works 
at Holiday Inn, are contributing positively to society, Darnell said.“They’re doing good things for us,” she 
said.
Their success is due, in part, to the dogs.  When inmates see the animals succeed 
— becoming friendlier and healthier — Scott said, this helps the women get their self-confidence back.
“Dogs have so much love to give,” she 
said.
Tina Butler, 47, speaks fondly of the 
dogs she has trained in the program. She said she feels attached to them.
“They humble you, and they teach you 
stuff about yourself,” Butler said.
At her home, Butler said she was always 
surrounded by animals, feeding strays and owning dogs, cats, horses and hamsters.
She describes Rollin as protective and 
hyper.
“He loves to give you hugs and kisses,” 
she said.
She pointed to Dan Mainwaring, who is 
adopting Rollin.
“His daddy knows,” she said, smiling.The dogs have an undeniable and con-
tagious happiness, Butler said. When they see their trainers, both parties get excited.
“It not only makes (Rollin) feel good, it 
makes you feel good, too,” she said.
Both women were given certificates that 
recognize their work with the dogs. Af-ter Butler was given hers, she smiled and turned away.
“Stand up here, Tina, please,” Darnell 
said to her while graduation guests took photos. “This is your creation.”
And the dogs owe their training to the 
inmates, who care for them like they were 
their own animals.
“It becomes your dog emotionally,” said 
Deputy Cary Gallop.
While they were sad to see the dogs go, 
Rivera and Butler smiled throughout the 
entire graduation ceremonies, especially when they were presented with certificates highlighting their accomplishments.
“That is a precious document that means 
a lot and represents a lot of blood, sweat and tears,” Darnell said.
Everyone gathered for a group photo 
after certificates were given to the women and pictures of the dogs, along with gift baskets of treats and toys, were gifted to the adoptive families.
As 6-year-old Daniel Roth, one of Bar-
ney’s siblings, hugged his new dog’s neck, 
corrections officer Scott posed for the pho-
to.
“We’re saving dogs and inmates at the 
same time,” Scott said.Paws on Parole brings dogs, inmates and families togetherCourtesy to the Alligator
Laura Ann Rosenbury, dean of UF’s Levin College of Law, began her 
new position on July 1.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Daniel Roth, 6, snuggles his newly adopted boxer, Barney Collier, during a group photo of 
the “Paws on Parole” graduates.  Roth was able to take Barney home after the ceremony.
MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   25
nﬂ  sundayticket.tv/u
EXCLUSIVE
STUDENT
STUDENT
DISCOUNT!
DISCOUNT!
EXCLUSIVE
STUDENT
DISCOUNT!STUDENTS!
STREAM NFL SUNDAY TICKET LIVE .
No Satellite Required.
NFLSUNDAYTICKET.TV service will begin Sunday, September 13, 2015. NFLSUNDAYTICKET.TV University only available to students enrolled in eligible universities. NFLSUNDAYTICKET.TV consists of all out-of-market NFL games (based on customer’s device location) 
broadcast on FOX and CBS. However, games broadcast by your local FOX or CBS afﬁ  liate will not be available on NFLSUNDAYTICKET.TV. Games available via remote viewing based on device location. Only one game may be accessed remotely at any given time. Online 
access is only available on certain operating systems. Computer hardware, software and Internet connection not included. Mobile access only available on certain devices. Additional data charges may apply. Please check with your service provider. Only available on select 
gaming consoles. Visit nﬂ  sundayticket.tv for a list of authorized consoles. Subscription cannot be downgraded or canceled (in part or in whole) after the start of the season and subscription fees cannot be refunded. Visit nﬂ  sundayticket.tv for a list of system requirements and compatible mobile devices. Commercial locations require an appropriate licensee agreement. NFL, the NFL Shield design and the NFL SUNDAY TICKET name and logo are registered trademarks of the NFL and its afﬁ  liates. ©2015 DIRECTV. DIRECTV and the Cyclone Design logo are registered trademarks of DIRECTV, LLC. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. 
Powered by
Only NFLSUNDAYTICKET.TV lets you watch
every out-of-market game, every Sunday afternoon.
No Satellite Required.
Eligibility requirements apply.26   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
Editor’s Note: A version of this 
story originally appeared in the Aug. 4 edition of the Alligator. 
By Luisa Guaracao
Alligator Contributing Writer 
When Troy Bryant and Sean Ly-
ons were freshman engineering stu-
dents at UF, they joked about being senior design partners and having the best project.
Five years later, to their dis-
belief, both of those visions came true. On July 27, Bryant and Lyons, two recent UF graduates, won ﬁ  rst place in the annual Texas Instru-ments Innovation Challenge for their project, Seven Deadly Synths: a non-contact synthesizer.
This year, 300 teams from across 
the U.S., Canada and Mexico sub-mitted their projects online to the competition, according to a press release. The top three ﬁ  nalist teams, two of which were from UF, were invited to Dallas, Texas, to show-case their projects in the ﬁ  nals.  
The idea behind Seven Deadly 
Synths was to create a musical 
instrument that could be played 
by anyone regardless of skill. The thought ﬁ  rst emerged when Lyons and Bryant were juniors, but they did not start developing it until last semester in their senior year when they began taking design.  
Musicians themselves, Bryant 
and Lyons, who were part of a 
band in high school called Rush of 
Reality, realized that advanced mo-tor skills were required to play an instrument.
“Playing a chord on the guitar is like doing gymnastics with your ﬁ  n-gers,” said Lyons, who’s been play-
ing the guitar for more than seven 
years.
Fueled by their passion for mu-
sic and electronics, the two electri-cal engineering students challenged themselves to create a musical de-vice that could be operated without advanced motor skills.
The outcome was a synthesizer 
instrument made out of 35 Texas Instruments components, which could be operated using basic mo-tions, such as the wave of a hand, Bryant said.
The device used infrared sensors 
to detect motion, allowing it to play different notes based on the loca-tion of a hand. It speciﬁ  cally ben-
eﬁ  ts disabled musicians who have 
lost the ﬁ  ne motor skills needed to play an instrument.
“The beauty of creating music is 
something that should be accessible to anyone,” Lyons said. “If (our in-strument) could give one person music, it’ll all be worth it.”
The team spent about 60 hours a 
week working on the device for ﬁ  ve months. Originally, the project was just supposed to be for their senior design class, but they were encour-aged by faculty members to enter the contest.
“We honestly never thought that 
we would be this far or even reach this big of an accomplishment,” Bryant said. “It’s still kind of sur-
real.”
The team received $10,000. Ly-
ons, a ﬁ  rst-generation college stu-
dent, said he plans to use his share of the money to pay off student loans.
“It really has changed my life,” 
he said. “I would be paying these loans a lot longer if we hadn’t won.”
UF’s Jordan Street, the third 
place winner, received $5,000 for his project, the Hercules Autopi-lot. The former graduate student’s project was a more complex version of his senior design project, Gator Pilot, which received ﬁ  rst place in UF’s design competition last year.
The Hercules Autopilot is a full-
ﬂ  ight control system that allows unmanned aerial vehicles to ﬂ  y an autonomous path, Street said. It is speciﬁ  cally designed for quadro-tors, which are helicopters that are lifted by four propellers, or rotors.
The device has multiple appli-
cations. It can perform an array of tasks, from search and rescue mis-
sions to allowing architects to sur-
vey construction sites from above.
“This gives you the ability to ﬂ  y 
in whatever you need without hav-ing the overhead cost of a large heli-copter or another vehicle like that,” Street said.
Hercules, in this case, is the 
codename for the main processor 
that runs all the ﬂ  ight algorithms. 
“That’s what runs all the soft-
ware that makes everything possi-
ble,” Street said. “So I kind of used that in coming up with the name of the project.”
UF engineers place in Texas contestCAMPUS
Editor’s Note: A version of this 
story originally appeared in the Aug. 4 edition of the Alligator.
 
By Ramon Peña
Alligator Contributing Writer
A voting program focused on ac-
cessibility developed by a team now 
at UF was awarded by the Knight Foundation as part of its $3.2 million Knight News Challenge.
The challenge seeks to reward 
those with innovative ways of pro-viding voters with better information and increasing participation before, during and after elections.
Prime III, the UF program, allows 
voters to use a touchscreen, voice commands or a button switch along with constant narration. The result 
is an all-purpose voting system that 
could change the way voting is done, making sure it doesn’t discriminate against disabilities.
“People have died in this country 
for the right to vote,” said Juan Gil-bert, a UF professor and the founder of the program. “Our election, our democracy is at the very fabric of 
this country. It’s our right to vote.”
Normally, there is a voting station 
set aside for people with disabilities 
such as blindness or deafness. The idea behind the Prime III system, Gil-bert said, was that everyone would vote on the same machine, no matter their disabilities. Also, a result would be a rise in voter participation, par-ticularly among the disabled, said Lawrence Kenny, a UF business 
professor and specialist in election 
turnouts.
Now, with the $35,000 from the 
Knight Foundation, the project is moving to become open source, which means that it would be freely available for download and use. The team is looking to release the open-source program in September, al-
though there is no set date.
“We decided to make Prime III 
because we wanted to ‘change the 
world’, that’s our lab motto,” wrote Naja Mack, 26, a  UF graduate stu-dent in human-centered computing and a member of the team, in an email.
Prime III has been tested and ap-
proved by a very large population of voters, Mack said. Pilot operations continue to be run out of states like New Hampshire, Oregon and Wis-consin.
Originally started in 2003 by Gil-
bert and his research team, Prime III is the latest incarnation of the acces-sible voting project. Before, it was a 
standalone program, but now it can 
run on HTML, meaning it can be ac-cessed through a Web page.
The program is also looking to 
release in other languages and con-tinuously improve, Gilbert said.
“It’s a game changer,” he said. “It 
will make voting more accessible to people with disabilities; it will make 
voting more accurate, it will make 
voting more affordable for the state.”  UF group receives funds 
for voting access project
“Playing a chord on 
the guitar is like doing 
gymnastics with your 
ingers.”
Sean Lyons
UF alumnusMONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   27
䴀愀欀攀 礀漀甀爀 洀漀渀攀礀 氀椀昀攀 攀愀猀椀攀爀 琀栀爀漀甀最栀 䘀䌀唀℀ 圀 攀ᤠ瘀攀 最漀琀 
挀漀渀瘀攀渀椀攀渀琀 瀀爀漀搀甀挀琀猀 氀椀欀 攀 吀漀琀愀氀氀礀 䘀爀攀攀 䌀栀攀挀欀椀渀最 
⠀渀漀 昀攀攀猀℀⤀ ☀ 攀䌀爀攀搀椀琀 琀栀愀琀 愀爀攀 攀愀猀礀 琀漀 愀挀挀攀猀猀 愀渀搀 
洀愀渀愀最攀 漀渀氀椀渀攀 ⸀ 倀氀甀猀Ⰰ 礀漀甀 挀愀渀 琀愀欀 攀 礀漀甀爀 愀挀挀漀甀渀琀 眀椀琀栀 
礀漀甀 愀昀琀攀爀 挀漀氀氀攀最攀 愀渀搀 欀 攀攀瀀 礀漀甀爀 ǻ渀愀渀挀攀猀 爀甀渀渀椀渀最 
猀洀漀漀琀栀氀礀 Ⰰ 渀漀 洀愀琀琀攀爀 眀栀攀爀攀 礀漀甀 最漀 ⸀
嘀椀猀椀琀 甀猀 
嘀椀猀椀琀 甀猀 漀渀氀椀渀攀 漀爀 椀渀 礀漀甀爀 氀漀挀愀氀 戀爀愀渀挀栀 琀漀 ǻ渀搀 漀甀琀 栀漀眀 
䘀氀漀爀椀搀愀 䌀爀攀搀椀琀 唀渀椀漀渀 挀愀渀 栀攀氀瀀 礀漀甀℀ 
䬀攀攀瀀椀渀最 甀瀀 眀椀琀栀 礀漀甀
愀渀搀 礀漀甀爀 ǻ渀愀渀挀攀猀⸀ 
㌀ 䜀愀椀渀攀猀瘀椀氀氀攀 䈀爀愀渀挀栀攀猀     
䘀攀搀攀爀愀氀氀礀 椀渀猀甀爀攀搀 戀礀 琀栀攀 一䌀唀 䄀⸀ 
TECHNOLOGY
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org 
If you’ve ever wondered if there would be an applica-
tion like Tinder but for shopping, look no further. 
Created by a three-person team, benjamin is an applica-
tion that launched its final version during the first week of 
August. The beta version, which is currently available in 
the app store, will continue to be free for all users. 
The app, using algorithms and connecting to a social 
media site, uses a person’s expressed interests online to 
narrow down the items shown, which are available for purchase. 
After linking your Facebook or Twitter account, check-
ing off your interests and filling in your shoe and clothing sizes, you have a full minute to decide if you want to buy the item presented.
If you do, swipe right. If you don’t, swipe left to move 
on to the next item hoping to match with you.
“It’s personalized shopping meets Tinder,” said Corrine 
LaDrig, head of marketing for benjamin.
The app’s name, which is lowercased for branding, 
stems from references to the $100 bill, as well as the Big Ben tower, said LaDrig, a UF graduate with a bachelor’s in public relations and a master’s degree in global strategic communications.
The app will also keep all items under $100, LaDrig 
said, adding that the 60-second time limit lets customers shop on the go.
With benjamin, customers can shop for a few minutes 
while they head to work or have a gap of time, she said.
Andrew Chapin, founder and CEO of benjamin, said the 
app is a solution to the problem of too many options on other shopping websites.With the basic demographic information that benjamin 
collects, customers can have a personalized shopping ex-
perience, he said.
The app, which launched June 15, has partnered with 
brands like Ray-Ban, whose products are available in the 
beta version. Other possible partnerships include Adidas, Under Armour and Nike, he said.  
The app currently has several hundred active weekly 
users, meeting its initial goal, Chapin said.
The company charges vendors based on how many 
times their products show up on a user’s phone, not how 
many are sold, Chapin said. This way, vendors can lower 
prices for customers without having to give away a per-centage of commission.
Renée Richter, a 19-year-old UF psychology sophomore, 
said she shops online way too often, averaging about once a week.
From books to makeup to accessories, Richter said she 
usually shops on Amazon.com, which offers deals under $10.
“I don’t think I’d ever use (benjamin) because I’d buy 
too much,” she said. Richter said it’d be cool to see the app filter products by prices and brand.
Steven Kirn, executive director of the David F. Miller 
Center for Retailing Education and Research at UF, said convenience plays a big role in e-commerce.
The app is proof that retail is evolving, Kirn said.The majority of customers still prefer to go to a physi-
cal store for most products, but the app could take online 
shopping to another level with the personalized experi-
ence, he said.
“Customers are expecting the ability to buy things any-
where, anytime they want,” he said. “The winners are go-ing to be the ones that meet that demand in any way they expect.”A Tinder for shopping? UF alums 
helped create an app for that
Screenshot
Shown in this screenshot is the beta version of benjamin, 
an app that gives users 60 seconds to decides whether or not to buy an online shopping deal.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DONT LIVE AT THE WRONG PLACE
Countryside at the University
4000 SW 23rd St.
4BR/4BA. Excellence for student achieve -
ment at UF. Individual lease. $395.
Call for details Bristol Park Realty
Phone 352-367-2669 or 
bristolparkmanagement.com
All applications in person
rich@bristolparkrealty.com
8-28-15-11-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
5 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-2
Units for Rent, Near UF
● 3/2 house, 1-mile to Law School $975/mon
● 2 /2.5 in Casablanca $750/mon
Classic Prop of N FL, Inc / 352-331-2100     
8-24-15-5-2    
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   8-31-15-8-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor in LR. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $675/mo. Call Joe 727-423-9463    8-28-15-6-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,695/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 
1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call 
Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1ST1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   8-28-15-7-2
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5Secluded Alachua home, 2000, 8.9 acres, 3br/2ba 2440SF, well/septic, open plan, darkwd fireplace, vaulted ceiling, stor-age, pasture, convenient to Gville, springs! $286,500 NEG Exit Realty Producers Sue Paper 301-806-8935   8-25-15-5-5
Only 10 minutes to campus. 3bdrms, 2 baths, lots of parking, just renovated 2831 NE 11 Dr, $114,900 Helen Robb, Realtor, Mitchell Realty, 352-871-4413    8-24-15-2-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-111For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified9 BicyclesMONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   29 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Scooter for Sale, Still under warranty.  You 
need a motorcycle license. $1,000. Comes with cover and lock. Text or call after 6pm 352-219-8190                8-25-15-4-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
WANTED: ACOUSTIC BASS
For student. Ok if needs repair. Please call 
Mr. Greene 352-473-0646    8-24-3-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the fall semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOEStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Gestational Surrogate Needed
to carry our embryo, no egg or sperm dona -
tion required. 1 yr living expenses covered. Text for additional information 305-582-9800    
8-28-15-24-14
Wanted. Energetic, hard working fitness mind-
ed individual to sell high quality merchandise at Gainesville's longest standing  (39 years and counting) LOCAL Sporting Goods store. Apply in person only, full or part time position will be entertained for the right individual. Lloyd Clarke Sports  1504 NW 13th St    8-25-15-10-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 30   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
JANITORIAL WORK
3:30 pm - 6:30 pm   Mon thru FriMust have experience, pass background check, work well with others. Send resume via fax 352-373-6012 or email info@allcleanfl.com    8-24-15-5-14
Office Ass't-F/T One of these Passions-FX Show Justified/health&fitness/TedTalks. Rhonda Rousey follower, non stalker a plus. Excellent writing skills, Love to read, Math interest. 1 yr+ commitment. paulsrothstein@gmail.com 8-25-15-5-14
HOME/OFFICE/APARTMENT CLEANER NEEDED if interested please call 352-214-0868..MUST own a reliable car, pass a back-ground, drug ,and reference check. Paying $8/hr and weekly pay..    8-27-15-5-14
Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.    9-4-15-10-14
PT sales assoc. wanted Flex days & hrs. Retail exp. a + Great cust. service skills req- we'll teach the rest. If hard working & want a fun work env. email res. scrubsbydesign@gmail.com  8-26-3-14
CHOCOLATE CONSULTANTSee www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description. e-mail resume and weekly/year-round availability to info@thornebrookchoco -
lates.com.    8-31-15-6-14
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E University Ave. Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office @ 955-7766
9-4-15-10-14
Help Wanted Sales AssistantNeed ambitious, presentable, and well orga-nized person for growing business. Automobile and customer service experience a plus. Send apps/questions to jobs@tomlinsonmotorco.com     9-4-15-10-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
Homework coach wanted for bright but dis-organized 8th grade girl. $10 per hour plus mileage for 4-6 hours per week. Flexible hours. Email qualifications to maddy56@ufl.edu.    8-28-5-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Sherlockians
interested in joining with others so inclined 
in a new, online scion society, please send 
email ASAP to ceb221b@gmail.com.    9-1-
15-15-19
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21RED'S TAVERN 2 Year Anniversary Aug. 29 Su/Mo.-Free Pool, Tu.-Bike Night, Wed.-Ladies Night/Karaoke Th.-Men's Night, Fr.-Karaoke, Sa.-Open Mike Su.-$1 PBR Drafts Get 1 free House draft w/ Student ID. HWY 27 Ft White 352-339-6978           8-28-10-21
22 Tickets
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
1. When was the last time before 
2014 that St. Louis Cardinals pitchers 
combined to record at least 23 shut-
outs in a season?
2. Who has the best career regu-
lar-season winning percentage among 
these three major-league managers: Sparky Anderson, Davey Johnson and 
Earl Weaver?
3. In 2014, running back Todd Gur -
ley set a record at the University of 
Georgia for most all-purpose yards in a game (293). Whose mark did he 
break?
4. The Spurs’ Tim Duncan, Manu 
Ginobili and Tony Parker set a record 
in 2014 for most NBA postseason 
wins of any trio. Who had held the 
record?
5. Name the last team before the Los 
Angeles Kings in 2015 to miss the NHL playoffs a season after winning the Stanley Cup.
6. Who holds the men’s soccer 
record for most appearances as a cap-tain in the World Cup?
7. In 2015, Lindsey V onn set a World 
Cup skiing record for most career 
wins (63). Who had held the mark?
Answers
1. The Cardinals had 30 shutouts in 
1968.
2. Weaver, with a .583 winning per -
centage in 17 seasons, topped John-
son (.562 in 17 seasons) and Anderson (.545 in 26 seasons).
3. Rodney Hampton had 290 all-pur -
pose yards in a game in 1987.
4. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Michael 
Cooper and Magic Johnson had 110 playoff wins for the Los Angeles Lak-ers during the 1980s.
5. The Carolina Hurricanes, in 2007.6. Diego Maradona, with 16 appear -
ances for Argentina (1986-94).
7. Austria’s Annemarie Moser-Pro-
ell, with 62.
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 24, 2015 King Features Weekly Service19 Connections 15 Services 14 Help Wanted 21 Entertainment 24 PetsMONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Follow us for updates
Follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorsports or online at www.alligator.org/sports forupdates on UF athletics. Heading into the season, Florida's volleyball team has a national championship on the mind. Read the story on pg. 34. By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Florida hasn’t named a start-
ing quarterback for the season 
opener against New Mexico State, 
and coach Jim McElwain seem-
ingly couldn’t care less.
Although neither Will Grier 
nor Treon Harris has distin-
guished himself as the clear-cut 
starter, McElwain has frequently reiterated he’s conﬁ  dent in either quarterback leading the team.
The question may no longer be 
who will start for the Gators on Sept. 5 but who will start the ﬁ  rst drive. 
McElwain said it’s highly like-
ly the team plays both Grier and Harris at quarterback during the ﬁ  rst couple games of the season.
“We’ll be OK if we go into (the 
season opener) and kind of play and go from there and see who plays under the lights the best,” 
McElwain said Friday. 
“Those two guys are progress-
ing and you know, no clear sepa-
ration yet. They’re competing, 
they’re working and getting an 
opportunity to work with some different units.” 
Grier and Harris alternated units during Friday’s scrimmage and McElwain said both quarter-
backs moved the ﬁ  rst-team of-
fense well.
McElwain has a tough decision on his hands that likely won’t be decided until after the season 
opens.
Tabor seeing differences: 
Sophomore cornerback Jalen Tabor said whoever the Gators 
end up starting at quarterback will undoubtedly have the full 
support of the team.
“I mean if it takes the opener. 
…whatever decisions Coach Mac 
makes, that’s what the team is going to ride with,” Tabor said. “We're gonna stand behind who-ever he stands behind and choos-
es to make quarterback.”
Although he hasn’t seen Grier 
throw during a game, and Harris’ 
work against the ﬁ  rst-string de-fense came only in the latter half 
of last year, Tabor said one of the 
noticeable differences in practice from last season is the secondary is now being tested by the quar-
terbacks and wide receivers.
“We used to not get beat last 
year in practice,” Tabor said. 
“Nobody really tested us, so 
we got to the games and it was a different ball game. Now we’re 
getting tested in practice with all these different route combina-tions.”
Whether Tabor is knocking 
former offensive coordinator Kurt Roper’s offense or the quarter-back play of Jeff Driskel, who will start at Louisiana Tech this sea-
son after transferring, is unclear.
But Tabor didn’t mince words 
when he said McElwain and wide 
receivers coach Kerry Dixon have 
made it a priority to make the 
team’s wide receivers realize how crucial they are to not just the success of the offense, but per-haps the success of the team.
“Last year they were just 
guys,” Tabor said. 
Gators award scholarships to walk-ons
UF football coach Jim McElwain awarded scholarships to walk-ons Case 
Harrison, Roger Dixon, Garrett Stephens, Blair Diamond, Steven Stipe and Dakota Wilson for their contributions to the program. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Coach Jim McElwain calls out a play during Spring practice. Following Florida's scrimmage on Friday, 
McElwain said the Gators may take until after the season opener to decide on a starting quarterback.
INSTAGRAHAM
Fall in Florida brings with it a 
sense of optimism.
The weather cools down, 
the rain gradually subsides and with it comes the return 
of seemingly everyone’s favorite sport: football.
Gone is former coach Will 
Muschamp, who has donned dif-ferent shades of orange and blue at Auburn as its defensive coor-dinator.
There’s a fresh face on the sidelines ea-
ger to win back the hearts and adoration of 
Florida fans everywhere.
His name is Jim McElwain, and come 
Sept. 5 he’ll have at least 12 opportunities 
(15 if the team makes it as far as the na-tional championship) to reverse the losing trend that has more often than not been on display recently at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
But while the football team waits for 
the season to kick off, and for its starting 
quarterback to reveal himself, there are UF 
teams opening their seasons to much less hype and fervor than McElwain’s padded juggernauts.
On Friday, coach Becky Bur-
leigh began her 21st season as head coach of the Gators soccer 
team.
She’s the only coach the team 
has ever known, becoming the 
inaugural leader at the program’s inception in 1995 and surprising the nation when the Gators won 
the national championship in 1998.
The team opened the preseason ranked 
No. 8 after ending last season with a 17-4-2 
record and a ﬁ  nish in the quarterﬁ  nal round 
of the NCAA Tournament.
And Burleigh isn’t the only tenured Flor-
ida coach looking to exceed high expecta-tions.
Mary Wise returns for her 25th year as 
coach of the volleyball team, and the team has the talent and depth to threaten for a national championship.
Every year the team has competed against UF athletics poised for strong Fall
THE MATCHUP WAS THE FIRST 
MEETING BETWEEN THE TEAMS. 
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
In the second game of the team’s three-
game road trip, the No. 8 Florida soccer 
team fell to Ohio State in a 1-0 overtime 
loss on Sunday. 
The match, the ﬁ  rst to ever feature the 
Gators (1-1-0) and Buckeyes (2-0-0), pro-
duced zero goals in the ﬁ  rst 90 minutes in 
Columbus, Ohio.
However, OSU ended the game early in 
the overtime period when forward Nichelle 
Prince received a through ball from Lind-say Agnew, subsequently striking the ball 
past redshirt junior goalkeeper Valerie Tys-
inger at the near post in the 95th minute.The Gators found themselves unable 
to ﬁ  nd an offensive spark for most of the 
ﬁ  rst half, but the ﬁ  nal 10 minutes saw a 
Savannah Jordan header punched out by  Buckeyes goalie Jillian McVicker as well as a 20-yard shot by freshman Briana Solis that fell wide right of the goal.
Though the second half ended score-
less, both teams garnered offensive momentum throughout the ﬁ  nal 45 
minutes of regulation. 
UF and OSU combined 
for nine shots in the half 
compared to ﬁ  ve total at-
tempts in the ﬁ  rst half.
Freshman Melanie 
Monteagudo headed a Christen Westphal corner kick on goal in the 83rd minute, but the attempt hit the top of the crossbar.Florida falls in overtime to 
Ohio State in road battleGators ready to enter season without naming starting QB
Tabor: QBs testing defense in camp
SEE SCRIMMAGE,  PAGE 32
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 32
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 38Burleigh
32   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
the nation’s best programs for the 
national title, yet Florida remains without a trophy to show for it.
While the team will have to 
replace the senior-laden back-
line that carried the Gators at 
times, Florida is clamoring at the thought of being the team that finally wins a much-deserved championship for Wise.
And the preseason rankings 
back up the buzz: UF is ranked No. 4 in the 2015 AVCA Division I Coaches Preseason Poll.
The men’s and women’s cross 
country teams open their seasons at the Appalachian State Invita-tional on Sept. 4 hoping to trans-late the success many of the run-ners had during the Spring track season.
Things don’t slow down from 
there as the men’s golf team tees 
off its Fall season on Sept. 11 at 
the Carpet Capital Invitational in Dalton, Georgia.
Coach JC Deacon enters his 
second season as the men’s golf coach with experience under his belt, although the Gators will search for leadership with the departure of four seniors, includ-
ing Gainesville native J.D. Tom-
linson.
The women’s golf team be-
gins its Fall season on Sept. 13 at the Cougar Classic in Charleston, South Carolina. 
Head coach Emily Glaser will 
look to lean on junior Karolina Vlckova and sophomore Taylor 
Tomlinson as the team looks to 
get back to the NCAA Women’s Golf Championships after not qualifying last year.
It’s only fitting that Florida’s 
Fall season opens with McEl-wain’s debut and closes with Mike White — who may have one of the toughest jobs in all of 
collegiate athletics replacing the 
surefire future Hall of Fame coach Billy Donovan — unveiling his 
maiden men’s basketball team.
The Gators are eager to make 
memories of last season’s sub-
.500 record disappear from the mouths and minds of Florida fans everywhere, and White and UF just might have the depth and tal-ent to make it back to the NCAA Tournament.
White has yet to bring in his 
first recruiting class — Florida’s incoming freshmen signed for Donovan — but the Dunedin na-tive gained grace in Gainesville by convincing three of the four committed freshmen to honor their decisions.
Florida could end up start-
ing freshman KeVaughn Allen at shooting guard from the get-go, a bold move but likely a necessary one.
If early buzz is any indication 
— so take the following statement with the smallest of salt grains — Allen has the potential to impact the Gators in a way unseen since 
St. Louis-native Bradley Beal 
stepped onto the O’Connell Cen-ter court.
Athletically, Florida is far 
more than just a football school.
Aside from the sports men-
tioned above, UF’s men’s and women’s swimming and div-ing teams are consistently com-
petitive under head coach Gregg 
Troy.
The women’s basketball team 
begins its 10th season under coach Amanda Butler, hoping to improve on last year’s campaign that began with optimism yet ended in disappointment. 
Florida athletics is a national 
powerhouse, and much credit goes to athletics director Jeremy Foley. 
Appreciate every sport UF 
offers and not simply the well-known athletics.
It’s up to you, the Gator fan 
and UF student, to enjoy all the university has to offer. COLUMN,  from pg 31
“Coach Mac, he needs his 
receivers. He’s making them 
feel like they can be somebody. They’re getting open, they’re fighting and they’re competing. Last year they wouldn’t compete 
as much.”
Penalties kill progress:  
The Gators were called for 80 
penalties last season — a number McElwain says is inexcusable and unforgivable.
On Friday, McElwain threw an 
undisclosed defensive lineman out of the team’s scrimmage for committing an unsportsmanlike 
conduct penalty.
He used it as a lesson to the 
Gators: Commit selfish penalties 
and you’ll find yourself on the bench.
“We had one unsportsmanlike 
conduct on a defensive lineman that I kicked out of the scrim-mage,” McElwain said. 
“That’s not how it works. He’s 
gone. That’s the way it is. Those are the unforced errors that have been the Achilles heel for a long time around here. I’m tired of it. 
If that’s the way you’re going to act, go sit on the bench. Some-
body else can play.”
Florida committed the third-
most penalties in the Southeast-ern Conference last season be-hind Missouri and Auburn, but to redshirt junior defensive lineman 
Bryan Cox Jr. it seemed like the 
Gators metaphorically shot them-selves in the foot more often than not. 
“We need to clean that up 
because it’s a lot of hidden lost yardage,” Cox said. “When you get penalties, you’re getting nega-tive yards for the offense. Get 
penalties and you don’t play.” SCRIMMAGE,  from pg 31UF committed 80 penalties last year
Alligator File Photo
Jalen T abor speaks at UF's Media Day on Aug. 5 at the T ouchdown T errace in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
T abor, a sophomore, led all Florida freshmen with 31 total tackles last season. 
MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   33
JOIN THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY.
BE A GLOBAL GATOR.
Learn more at: www.ufic.ufl.edu/UAP/InternationalScholarsProgram.htmlCOMING TO CAMPUS FALL 2015The International Scholars Program provides unique opportunities
 for undergraduate students to gain global perspective.
Structure your global learning experience through the completion of international 
coursework, international experience, language learning and co-curricular activities.
KELVIN TAYLOR HAS 1,073 
RUSHING YARDS IN 22 
CAREER GAMES. 
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
Florida ﬁ  nds itself in a peculiar 
position when it comes to the run-
ning backs on its roster.
There isn’t a whole lot of depth 
or experience when it comes to 
the position for the Gators as last 
season’s leading rusher — Matt Jones — is gone and Kelvin Tay-lor is the only returning running back with any signiﬁ  cant playing experience.
Taylor has been a backup his 
ﬁ  rst two years and he played in 12 games last season, recording 
565 yards rushing with six touch-
downs while splitting carries with Jones. 
Entering his third season, Tay-
lor is ready to become the feature back in head coach Jim McEl-wain’s’ offense.  
“I want to be the lead back. Be-
ing the lead back, being a leader 
for just for me going into the sea-
son …I’m just so thankful and ready to show everyone I can take on that responsibility and the bulk of the carries,” Taylor said at UF’s Media Day on Aug. 5. 
After Taylor, however, the 
depth chart is ﬁ  lled with unprov-
en talent. With Adam Lane transferring 
to Eastern Kentucky, more playing 
time is available for two players who have yet to play a single snap in a college game: freshmen Jor-
dan Scarlett and Jordan Cronkrite.
Scarlett came into the program 
with a lot of hype surrounding 
him after being one of the top prep running backs in the country at Fort Lauderdale’s St. Thomas Aquinas high school. 
He has the size and speed nec-
essary to make defenders miss and he could complement Taylor 
in a big way.
“Scarlett, he’s deceiving. He’s 
very deceiving. Big body. He’ll 
shake you. But he’ll come back and also run through you,” line-backer Jarrad Davis said after the team’s ﬁ  rst scrimmage on Aug. 14. 
Scarlett has the ability to be a 
game-changer and will make an immediate impact from the get-go when the Gators open up their season on Sept. 5 against New Mexico State.
While he wasn’t as highly 
touted coming out of high school, Cronkrite brings some of the same elements to his game as Scarlett. 
Cronkrite is listed an inch taller 
than Scarlett, standing 5-foot-11 and weighing 205 pounds.
The Miami native has also 
shown what he’s been able to do in Fall camp as he caught the eye of Davis.
“Man, he runs the ball hard. …one cut and go. I love that with him,” Davis said of Cronkrite.  
In the Southeastern Confer-
ence, where each game is a grind, having the ability to play multiple running backs is something McEl-wain wants to do.  
Should the Gators want to have a chance to compete in the SEC East, they are going to need to have a more consistent year from Taylor and have Scarlett and Cronkrite pick up the game as quickly as possible.  
 “I think you have to develop 
the position. You’re going to need three guys at least to go through the year with,” McElwain said.
“So what you hope to do is ﬁ  nd 
that guy that has the hot hand in the fourth quarter. That’s kind of the way we like to do it. Obvious-ly, that has a lot to do with the de-
velopment of those young guys.”  
UF running backs inexperienced, unproven behind Taylor
Alligator File Photo
Kelvin T aylor celebrates during Florida’s 38-20 win against Georgia on Nov. 1 at Everbank Field in 
Jacksonville. 
34   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Home of 
GainesvilleÊs
 Favorite Seafood!
 >Seafood  BROILED > BLACKENED > FRIED
       >Wings & Te nders          > Burgers             > Fish Ta cos                > PoÊ Boy Sandwiches                           > Soups & Salads
3333 SW 34TH STREET  (34th & Ar cher Rd)
poboyseafood.com > (352) 271-6655
ALL YO U CAN EA T
 JUMBO SHRIMP
$14.99$2 OFF
 SHRIMP
 OR MAHI TACOSBUY 1 GET 1 FREE 
Po’ Bo y Sandwic h 
(WITH PURC HASE OF TW O DRINKS)
Not V alid w/ any other of fer
Expir es 10/1/15Not V alid w/ any other of fer
Expir es 10/1/15Not V alid w/ any other of fer
Expir es 10/1/15Delivery 
AvailableFamily Owned & 
Oper ated By UF Gr ads
VOLLEYBALL
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
The Florida volleyball team has high expectations for 
themselves this year, and they aren’t afraid to talk about 
them — or the possibility of a national championship.
“That was one of our main talks and goals for the sea-
son,” 2014 Southeastern Conference Player of the Year Alex Holston said. “SEC championship, a Final Four and of course we all want that national championship. We actually talk 
about it a lot, not just in the back of our heads but in the 
locker room, during practice and during our meetings.”Part of the reason the Gators have their sights set on a na-
tional title is because they’ve consistently proved they own 
the SEC, winning 21 conference championships in the past 
24 seasons, all under head coach Mary Wise.
Wise and her team are embracing the idea of holding the 
championship trophy come December.
“There are a lot of teams that started training camp that it 
would not be a part of their dialogue,” Wise said. “This team understands that we’re one of a whole group of teams in the country that has a chance.”
Now in her 25th season at UF and still in search of Flori-
da’s ﬁ  rst national championship, Wise is testing her players in more ways than one.
“We had this big list of words that we actually had a quiz 
for it, [and] we all had to get 100 percent,” Holston said. “We cut that list into six words of three performance and three moral skills. I think we’re calling it our team glossary.”
The list includes words and phrases like social awareness, 
focused, appreciation, character, resilience and conﬁ  dence, all of which are used to help keep the team focused and be-come better teammates, Holston said.
Wise said the lessons are no different than what the pro-
gram has been preaching in the past, but this year she’s just 
packaging them differently.  
“What we’re doing is using volleyball to grow character,” 
Wise said. “So if the word in our glossary is resilient and our 
deﬁ  nition is to bounce back, there will be times in volleyball, 
and it happens often, where you get an opportunity to grow 
your resiliency. You just missed a serve, you’ve been aced, you got blocked, how do you bounce back from that to the very next play?”
Senior middle blocker Simone Antwi said that the team 
expectations don’t add pressure. They motivate her and her teammates to work harder.
“You can’t just come in and bring your “C” game, it’s like 
“A” game every day,” Antwi said. “We all push each other 
in the gym and make each other better, so it’s really a great 
environment to be a part of.”
It’s an environment that Wise has fostered throughout her 
years as a Gator — one in which she expects the best from her players not just in the gym but in the classroom, at home 
and in public. 
With Florida considered one of the elite teams in the na-
tion, as evidenced by its No. 4 ranking in the AVCA Division 
I Coaches Preseason Poll, Antwi knows the team has what 
it takes to be named national champions for the ﬁ  rst time in 
program history.
“We wanna be that team to win the national champion-
ship for Mary,” Antwi said. “It’d be nice to be that ﬁ  rst team and do it for Mary.”
With a slew of players returning from last year, including 
Holston — a First Team All-American last year — and Sec-ond Team All-American Rhamat Alhassan, the Gators have a legitimate shot at taking home a national title this season.
Florida opens its season Saturday on the road against 
James Madison at 7 p.m. and plays its ﬁ  rst home game Sept. 17 against St. John’s. Florida thinking national championship as season looms
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Right-side hitter Alex Holston swings for a kill during Florida’s 3-1 win against Miami in the second round of 
the NCAA T ournament on Dec. 6 in the O’Connell Center. 
MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   35
SEP 4 - NEW MEXICO STATE
SEP 11 - EAST CAROLINA
SEP 25 - TENNESSEE
OCT 2 - OLE MISS
OCT 30 - GEORGIA (JAX)
NOV 6 - VANDERBILT (HOMECOMING)
NOV 20 - FLA ATLANTIC
NOV 24 - FSU
DEC 4 - SEC CHAMPIONSHIP
CONTACT YOUR
SALES REP TODAY
352-376-4482RUN 5 OF 9 DATES AND RECEIVE 15% OFF  
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
There was a lot of debate over who the 
real DBU (Defensive Back University) was during the offseason, most notably some Twitter trash talk between the Florida and LSU secondaries. The de-
bate probably won’t be settled until the two teams play each other in October, but here’s an early stab at the top ﬁ  ve:
No. 5: Clemson  — If the Tigers’ second-
ary has half the season it had last year, the rest of the Atlantic Coast Conference better stick to the ground game. Clemson only al-lowed 157.4 passing yards per game in 2014, good for second in the nation and ﬁ  rst among Power Five conference schools. While the unit did suffer key departures in starting safety Robert Smith and First Team All-ACC defensive back Garry Peters, there is still plenty of talent return-ing. A few veterans give the group 
some experience, but the majority 
of the talent is young, headlined by redshirt sophomore Mackensie Al-exander, who was a Freshman All-American in 2014 and is on preseason watch lists for both the Bednarik and Thorpe Awards. No. 4: Ole Miss  — The Rebels 
suffered signiﬁ  cant losses from a ball-hawking secondary that picked off opposing quarterbacks 22 times in 2014, but after hitting the recruit-
ing trail hard, Hugh Freeze has 
another talented aerial defense to look forward to this season. All-Americans Senquez Golson and Cody Prewitt are gone and gradu-ated, but there is plenty of talent to 
replace them. Safety Tony Conner, who was voted preseason Second Team All-Southeast-ern Conference, returns to lead a group of new faces in pass coverage that is headlined by Tony Bridges, considered by many to be the top junior college cornerback in the country. 
Freeze also added three of the nation’s top 75 
high school cornerbacks as well as incoming freshman Armani Linton, a four-star safety. And on top of that, the Landshark defense also gets four-star cornerback Tee Shepard back from a season-ending toe injury he suffered last year.
No. 3: Virginia Tech  — Vernon Har-
greaves aside, the Hokies may have the best cornerback in college football in Kendall Fuller. Which college football team has the best defensive back unit in the country?JUST SOME HACK
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 36
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack2436   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
One FREE Drink
With purchase of a meal
Redeem at any
Gainesville
Harvest Thyme
Free 
Delivery
Downtown - 2nd W. University Ave(352) 384 - 9497orMagnolia Parke - 4780 NW 39th Ave(352) 519 - 5344The junior and 2014 Third Team All-
American certainly has the pedigree of a lockdown corner — his broth-ers Vincent, Corey and Kyle have all played in the NFL, and Corey and 
Kyle still do. While Fuller essentially 
locks down his side of the ﬁ  eld, the other side looks to be taken care of if junior Brandon Facyson remains healthy. Facyson has had an injury-ﬁ  lled career that included missing most of last season with a stress reaction in his left shin, ultimately leading to a broken leg in December. 
But coaches say the junior is back to 
his old self, an old self that had four interceptions in his ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve games as a freshman before injuries took hold. 
No. 2: LSU  — The Tigers have a 
strong case for the title of DBU. Last season, LSU ranked third in the na-tion in pass yards allowed, giving up only 164.2 yards per game. Three 
returning members of that second-
ary are on this year’s preseason All-SEC team — safety Jalen Mills (ﬁ  rst team), cornerback Tre’Davious White (second team) and safety Ja-mal Adams (third team). Mills will miss the ﬁ  rst few games of the sea-son with an ankle injury, but the Ti-gers’ depth will allow them to sim-
ply insert safety Rickey Jefferson in his stead, a junior who played in all 13 games last season and tied for a 
team-leading two interceptions. And just to add to the riches, LSU adds freshman Kevin Toliver this season, 
a ﬁ  ve-star recruit who was ranked 
the third best high school corner-back in the nation and the 27th best player overall.
No. 1: Florida  — Despite his 
shortcomings, former Gators head coach Will Muschamp built a fright-ening secondary. 
As good as all of the previously 
mentioned units are, there’s only one in the country that has six guys likely headed for the NFL. For Flor-ida, it begins and ends with junior 
Vernon Hargreaves, a unanimous 
First Team All-SEC selection and a Second Team All-American a year ago. He’s the best in college football and will easily be a top 15 pick in the upcoming NFL Draft. 
But it’s far from a one man show. 
Sophomores Jalen Tabor and Quincy Wilson played in all 12 games as 
true freshmen last year and would 
likely challenge for the No. 1 spot on most other teams. Instead, they’ll compete for the No. 2 spot on the Gators, although both will play consistently. Senior Brian Poole led the team with four interceptions in 2014 and ranked ﬁ  fth in the confer-ence with 1.17 passes defended per 
game, starting in 10 contests at both 
the corner and nickel position. Vet-erans Keanu Neal and Marcus Maye add experience and leadership in the safety positions and can play the hard-hitting enforcer role with ease. 
Another plus: The entire group 
has a wealth of experience playing together and has its communication 
ﬁ  gured out. 
In terms of both talent and experi-
ence, the Gators are simply the best.COLUMN,  from pg 35CROSS COUNTRY
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
While last year the Gators ﬁ  elded a squad 
lacking in veteran runners, this year’s wom-
en’s cross country team will feature both youth and experience. 
Led by junior Taylor Tubbs, redshirt sopho-
more Becky Greene and sophomore Lauren Brasure, the team will be looking to improve on a season in which it ﬁ  nished seventh in the Southeastern Conference — its worst ﬁ  nish since 2003 — and ﬁ  fth in the regional cham-pionship. 
Tubbs and Greene were both named 2014 
All-Region performers, and Tubbs will try to build on her career-best 20:21.00 6K at the re-
gional championship. Greene found considerable success on the 
track in the offseason and was named the 2014 SEC Indoor Women’s Freshman Runner of the 
Year. 
She’ll attempt to translate her success from 
the track to the terrain, where her 20:30.20 6K at last year’s regional championship was also a career-best.
The ﬁ  nal member of the team’s “big three,” 
Brasure, will look to improve on a season in which she ﬁ  nished ﬁ  rst on the team in three 
races but seemed to struggle down the stretch, 
ﬁ  nishing behind both Tubbs and Greene in the season’s ﬁ  nal two meets. 
UF will also be counting on the contribu-
tions of returning upperclassman Devin Mc-Dermott, who is the only other runner still on the team — aside from the big three — to ﬁ  n-ish in the top-3 of a race last season. Lauren Perry, who redshirted her freshman 
season after suffering from compartment syn-
drome, is one runner who could be a surprise 
contributor. 
After struggling with leg injuries going 
all the way back to high school, it appears that she’s ﬁ  nally healthy and ready to 
compete following surgery for her compartment syn-drome.
On the men’s side, 
sophomore Thomas Howell returns after being named to the All-SEC Freshman 
Team. 
With a year of experience now under his 
belt, Howell will be called upon to lead the team’s underclassmen. Some other probable contributors based on 
last season are redshirt junior Mac Reynolds, 
junior Carlos Miranda and senior Elliot Clem-
ente. The trio of upperclassmen were respon-sible for nine top-3 ﬁ  nishes over the course of last season. For Clemente, his 31:41.00 10K at last season’s ﬁ  nal meet was a career-best on which he can build. Reynolds and Miranda both failed to improve on their career-best marks all of last season, but will likely need to in order to stay in the starting rotation.
The biggest story for the men, however, is 
the return of seniors Jimmy Clark and Eddie Garcia following a yearlong hiatus.
After being held out of competition in 2014 
to preserve an extra year of eligibility, the duo will be counted on to turn in performances on-par with 2013 in order to help the team re-bound from a 10th place ﬁ  nish in the SEC.
Florida, led by youth, looking to exceed expectations
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Vernon Hargreaves catches a ball during Spring practice on March 16 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Hargreaves was named a unanimous First T eam All-SEC selection as a sophomore. 
Spangler
MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   37
38   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
RECSTRAVAGANZAAUG 27 •  6–8 PM •  SWRC
FUN, FITNESS, FOOD & FREE SWAG  
The biggest threat to the 
Gators in regulation came in 
the ﬁ  nal 10 seconds of the sec-
ond half when Prince, who had 
a game-high six shots, weaved her way to a one-on-one show-down with Tysinger, but the 
Gators’ keeper was able to 
quell the attempt.
Despite the Gators lack of 
scoring on offense, Westphal and fellow senior defender 
Claire Falknor were able to 
hold down the backline with consistency, stopping most of Ohio State’s advances up the 
ﬁ  eld.
For both Westphal and 
Falknor, the game was played 
in their home state, with West-phal hailing from Brecksville, 
Ohio, and Falknor from Day-ton, Ohio.
The tough loss wasn't the 
result Florida head coach 
Becky Burleigh was looking for, but she was able to iden-
tify a bright spot in the defeat.
“I feel that you are going 
to learn a lot more from your 
losses than you do from your 
wins,” Burleigh said.
Burleigh also highlighted 
the challenge presented in 
playing a Sunday game on the road following a night 
game earlier in the weekend 
against in-state rival UCF, as the Gators grabbed a 2-0 road win from the Knights on Friday 
night.
The Gators will not have 
that problem for its next tilt, 
as the team will travel to Coral Gables for a game against Mi-
ami on Thursday at 7 p.m.SOCCER,  from pg 31Florida took six shots 
against the Buckeyes
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF defender Christen Westphal dribbles during Florida's 2-1 win against Troy in an exhibition match on Aug. 
11 at the soccer practice ﬁ  eld at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
 
Nikki O’Rourke knows what’s 
expected out of the back row in 
Mary Wise’s volleyball program.
For three years, O’Rourke 
played her part, spot coverage here and there while learning the sys-tem and having the trio of Taylor Unroe, Holly Pole and Maddy Mon-serez leading the pack.
Now, it’s her turn to take charge.With the Gators returning all 
of their top point-scorers from last year’s Elite Eight run, O’Rourke is 
ready to step in and make sure the 
back row can keep pace.
“I think Maddy, Holly and Tay-
lor really did a great job preparing me for the position I am in now,” O’Rourke said. “Just coming in with them all being above me, they’ve taught me defense, passing, all of the technicalities of playing the po-
sition. Without them I don’t think 
I’d be where I am today.”
While O’Rourke doesn’t have 
the most experience, she is not a stranger to the court.
The 5-foot-6 defensive special-
ist played in 167 sets during her first three seasons, recording 24 to-tal service aces and averaging just 
more than a dig per set.
But with O’Rourke rising to the 
top of the depth chart, Wise said 
she is ready to see how O’Rourke handles the pressure.
“Nikki would be a prototype of 
what has happened here in this program,” Wise said. “There are some players that were fortunate to come here and play right away, but there are a whole slew of players that waited their turn, worked re-ally hard and then when their turn came, they took full advantage. 
That’s where Nikki O’Rourke is 
right now. She played behind three really good seniors.”
Florida’s three defensive spe-
cialists outside of O’Rourke include second-year players Sam Dubiel and Lindsey Rogers as well as San-ta Fe College transfer Ann-Lorrayne Bzoch.
Bzoch has the most collegiate 
experience of the three, playing in all 141 sets in Santa Fe’s inaugural season as the team’s starting libe-ro, racking up 4.39 digs per set.
She played under Nick Cheronis, 
who served as an assistant coach to Wise at UF in 1992 and was also Bzoch’s head coach at St. Francis 
Catholic High in Gainesville.
“I can’t imagine a college player 
in that position making an easier 
transition,” Wise said, “and yet the game is so different for her in this gym.”
Dubiel saw action in just nine 
sets as a freshman, recording two digs and showcasing a float serve 
that has the a high service ace po-
tential once fully developed. High-lighting her sparse playing time is a match-winning service ace against 
Auburn, her lone appearance in 
that match.
Rogers, an outside hitter in high 
school, took a redshirt her first year at UF to get better acclimated with her new defensive specialist role.
O’Rourke has taken responsibil-
ity of teaching them what it’s like to play in Florida’s system, just 
like the trio above her did for three 
years.
“With the new players we have 
now, she’s doing such a great job of teaching them,” senior setter Mackenzie Dagostino said. 
“You can definitely see how 
quickly the adjustment is being made.”
O’Rourke said her focus has 
been emphasizing to the younger defensive specialists the technicali-ties and the importance of being vocal during the game.
“We all work very well togeth-
er,” O’Rourke said. “The hard work we have been putting in, I think it will pay off.”
And Wise said she hopes it pays 
off for O’Rourke in her final season at UF.
“This is her turn,” Wise said. “Watching the confidence with 
which she’s been playing, the plays she’s making — she’s making plays right now that we didn’t have any-body who could defensively the 
past couple of years. Her presence 
on the court is huge for us.”MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   39
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Nikki O’Rourke serves during Florida’s 3-1 win against Miami on 
Dec. 6 in the O’Connell Center. 
VOLLEYBALL
O’Rourke set to lead UF’s back row40   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 24, 2015
