GUMBY’S PIZZA AND 
WINGS CELEBRATED ITS 
30TH ANNIVERSARY.
By Michaela Steakley
Alligator Contributing Writer
It all began with two fraternity 
brothers.
Chance Hippler was a 21-year-
old business student when he ap-
proached Jeff O’Brien, another member of UF’s Alpha Tau Omega fraternity, with the idea of opening a 
pizza restaurant.The two dropped out of UF in 
1985 and opened their ﬁ  rst store that 
same year in downtown Gainesville.
They combined their savings and 
used a bank loan, co-signed by their parents, to begin building the busi-ness. At the time, O’Brien, 20, was 
too young to have his name on the 
liquor license.
“That was it,” O’Brien said. 
“There was no more ﬁ  nancial help from our parents.”
But on Monday, Hippler and 
O’Brien celebrated the 30th anniver-sary of Gumby’s Pizza and Wings. The restaurant, which ﬁ  rst opened in Gainesville in 1985, now has restaurants near nine universities 
across the country.
“Thirty years is a long time,” Hip-
pler said. “But it’s been quite a run.”
Sitting in a booth at the restau-
rant, which has since moved to 34th 
Street, the two men reﬂ  ected on how Gumby’s has grown.
“We didn’t know anything about 
pizza — literally,” O’Brien said.
But now, the co-founders take 
pictures and autograph T-shirts We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 46 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015
Despite win streak, UF volleyball 
still learning from early losses
The Gators are on a six-match win streak, pg. 13
Colleges unsure of new MCAT
Survey ﬁ  nds a 38-percent drop in conﬁ  dence of 
assessment, pg. 3
Man arrested for shoplifting
He fractured an ofﬁ  cer’s skull, pg. 5Hangin’ in hammocks
Check out photos of students hammocking, pg. 9
John Hursh / Alligator Staff 
Alex Landry (top center), a 23-year-old UF alumnus, chews cheesy pizza with his group of friends, who call 
themselves “The Gumby Guys, ” at Gumby’s Pizza’s 30th anniversary on Monday. The group has been meet-ing at Gumby’s every Wednesday after Bible study for about seven years. On Wednesdays, Gumby’s has 50 cent pizza rolls. “For college kids, ” Landry said, “it’s the dream. ”
30 Years of Pizza  CAMPUS
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Soccer champion Abby Wam-
bach is coming home to UF. 
The UF alumna and 2015 
FIFA Women’s World Cup 
champion will speak at 8 p.m. 
at the Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts on Nov. 3. Ac-cent Speaker’s Bureau paid her $20,000 to speak, said Kevin Gerson, Accent chairman.
“She is an inspiration and 
role model,” he said.
Even though Wambach’s col-
legiate career ended in 2001, her 
name remains etched through-
out UF soccer’s record books.
During her four years at UF, 
she set school records for goals (96), assists (50) and total points (242) and helped Florida win its only NCAA national champion-ship when she was a freshman in 1998.
Students told Accent they 
wanted to see Wambach, Ger-son said. The process of getting her to come speak took many months, but he said he thinks students are excited.
“I’ve actually been amazed 
already at the response from the Student Body,” he said.
Ted Spiker, the chairman of 
the College of Journalism and Communications, will interview her, and he said he’ll be doing a lot of research before he writes his questions.
“My goal will be to get her 
to talk about some nostalgic things,” he said.
Spiker said being asked by 
Accent to interview her was an honor.
“I hope I 
can come up with some sur-prising ques-
tions,” he said.
Spiker said 
he thinks stu-dents will enjoy seeing Wambach.
UF telecommunication fresh-
man Samantha Hyatt said she ﬁ  rst heard about Wambach 
while watching the 2015 FIFA 
Women’s World Cup. She later found out she is a UF alumna while watching her ESPN doc-umentary. Hyatt, 18, said she couldn’t believe it.
When she saw Wambach will 
be speaking at UF on Facebook, she immediately clicked that 
she was going.
“I’m gonna go really early 
to make sure I get a spot,” she 
said.
Students can pick up two 
tickets with their Gator 1 Cards at noon Nov. 2 from the Phil-lips Center box ofﬁ  ce. Tickets will be available for the public 
to pick up at noon Nov. 3 with 
a maximum of two per person.Gators soccer alumna  
Abby Wambach taking timeout to speak at UF
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
Upgraded computers are headed Library 
West’s way.
All 215 public desktops in the library 
will be replaced with newer models by the end of the Fall semester, said Jana Ronan, 
chairperson for Library West.
“Finally, it’s happening,” she said. “I’ve 
seen the computers get older and older.”
The funding will come from the UF Li-
brary Deans and the Academic Technology 
Department, but it is not set yet, Ronan 
said. She said 100 brand-new Dell desktops 
will replace most of the current comput-ers. The remaining computers will come from Academic Technology. The latter will be comprised of used computers, but they will be more up to date than the library’s 
current computers.
“It’s a very attractive agreement for us,” 
she said.
Twelve new Dell OptiPlex 9020 models, 
desktop computers made in 2013, were 
added to the library’s second ﬂ  oor last week, but they haven’t been installed. As 
of now, every other public computer in the 
library is about 10 years old.
The 12 new computers beat the old 
models. They’re twice as fast at process-ing information and will have twice the 
amount of storage. Ronan said all of the 
new computers will offer major improve-ments in most categories.
“All of the computers will be faster to Library West to replace 215 computers by the end of Fall SEE ACCENT,  PAGE 4SEE PIZZA,  PAGE 4
SEE COMPUTERS,  PAGE 4Wambach
The computers are Dell desktopsSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
RecSports Thriller Night
Get your freaky dance moves 
on at Southwest Recreation Center. Participants will be taught the dance routine from 
the Michael Jackson music 
video “Thriller.” Learn the moves to this classic video and other dances Thursday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. This event is free to all current UF students. Register on RSConnect.recs-ports.ufl.edu. Costumes are encouraged.
Ghouls, Goblins and Greeks 
eventJunior Panhellenic at UF is excited to invite you to this year’s Ghouls, Goblins and Greeks event held on UF’s Sorority Row. Children are able to experience a fun, safe 
and free Halloween kick-off 
event. Put on your favorite costume and join in on a night of games, activities and trick-or-treating! The event will be held Thursday from 5 p.m. to 8 pm. The first 350 kids will receive a free T-shirt. Food will be provided but is limited to 
first come, first served. If you 
have any questions, please message us at facebook.com/UFJuniorPanhellenic. 
GatorNights
GatorNights will host the third annual Haunted Horror Reitz on Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 
a.m. in the Reitz Union. The 
event will feature a haunted house, a team pumpkin carv-ing contest and Nightmare on Beat Street featuring Hip Hop Collective. The event will also feature the movie “The Conjuring” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium, as well as a spe-
cial showing of “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” at 10 p.m. in the Reitz Breezeway. The night will end with free nachos during Midnight Munchies. Guests are encour-aged to wear costumes, but please no masks per university policy. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 
Card. Attendees must be cur-
rent students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
University Gallery
“Class of (circa) ’65,” on view today through Dec. 4 in the 
University Gallery at UF, is the 
final exhibition in celebration of the gallery’s 50th anniversa-ry. The exhibition showcases esteemed UF art alumni Robert Fichter and Mernet Larsen with photographs and paintings, including photographs from the early ‘60s taken by Jerry 
Uelsmann. A public reception 
will be held Nov. 6 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. To learn more about the artists and the exhibition, visit arts.ufl.edu/calendar.
Fall BFA Dance Showcase
The UF School of Theatre and Dance is pleased to present 
its Fall BFA Dance Showcase, 
“It happened in College.” The Fall showcase features seven senior thesis research projects as well as various other pieces from the MOD UF dance ensemble and guest artist Brazilian choreographer Fernando Ferraz. The Fall BFA 
Dance Showcase discovers 
its roots through dance film, Afro-Brazilian dancing and contemporary, thought-pro-voking movement. The show-case will be presented in two programs Wednesday through Sunday in the G-6 Studio locat-ed in the Nadine M. McGuire 
Theatre and Dance Pavilion 
on UF’s campus. Tickets are $9 and available through the University Box Office by call-ing 352-392-1653, or at ticket-master.com.
Halloween theme at 
Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club meets today at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, Room 1031, at 970 Natural Area Drive. Everyone is wel-come to attend and learn about 
Toastmasters. This week’s 
theme is Halloween. It is OK to wear a Halloween costume and bring food for a potluck pizza party and open house. Newcomers are always wel-come.
RUB Entertainment Presents 
Behind the ScreamsRUB will be hosting “Behind the Screams,” a Halloween themed event, Wednesday starting at 7:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. The event will feature activi-ties related to horror movie costumes, props and stunts 
in one room. In the adjacent 
room, there will be a screen-ing of the cult hit, “The Cabin in the Woods.” Get ready for “Behind the Screams” by following us on Twitter and Instagram, @UF_RUB. Participate in our social media contests for a chance to win a 
Blu-ray version of “The Cabin 
in the Woods” or “Hocus Pocus.” Find out more by vis-iting facebook.com/rubenter-tainment.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 46
HIGH  81° LOW  70°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
CAMPUS
By Ebony Joseph
Alligator Contributing Writer
Joseph Joyce’s decades-long work with UF 
will soon be recognized. 
Shortly after graduating from UF in 1982, 
Joyce led the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in 
managing the invasive water hyacinth plant 
in the St. Johns River in Florida. Later, he be-
came the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences’ Center for Leadership director.
Joyce will be inducted into the Florida Ag-
ricultural Hall of Fame on Feb. 9 along with fellow UF alumni Thomas Braddock and Charles Hinton, according to an announce-ment from the Florida Department of Agricul-ture and Consumer Services.
Joyce said he began his career at the uni-
versity because of his work in the army.
“Even today, when we go across the St. 
Johns River, it’s pretty clear of water hya-cinth,” he said. “That’s very rewarding to see.”
Vice President for Student Affairs Dave 
Kratzer said ﬁ  xing things is just what Joyce does. Kratzer said the two met in 1991 in the U.S. Army Reserve while competing for a promotion to brigadier general. Now the two 
work together at UF.
“Joe has strived to be 
the best at what he does,” 
Kratzer said. “When you look at his life, what he’s achieved, his friends, it’s because he worked hard for that.”
When Joyce was IFAS 
senior associate vice presi-dent, he expanded and 
renovated program facilities across the state.
Agriculture professor and Wedgworth 
Leadership Institute Director Hannah Carter said she isn’t surprised about the nomination. She met Joyce as a student working for the institute..
“I have an admiration more than any-
thing,” she said. “The man has devoted his life and career to IFAS. He’s one of those rare individuals that does his work because he loves it and loves the people.”UF IFAS director to be inducted 
into Agricultural Hall of FameSURVEY FINDS A 38 PERCENT 
DROP IN CONFIDENCE OF 
ASSESSMENT.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
As medical school admissions ofﬁ  cers 
across the country question the new Medical 
College Admission Test (MCAT), UF adminis-
trators see it as an improvement.
In a Kaplan Test Prep survey released last 
week, 42 percent of the medical schools sur-
veyed said they believe the new MCAT, which has been administered since April, is a bet-
ter assessment of students’ abilities. This is a 
38-percent drop from last year’s survey.
But for UF, the new MCAT is certainly 
an improvement, said Juliet Hill, director of admissions for the UF College of Medicine. UF has a large pre-medical population, with 760 students applying from UF last year, said Senior Communications Manager for Kaplan Test Prep Russell Schaffer.
“It encompasses areas that the old MCAT 
did not address,” she said.
Executive Director of Pre-Medical Pro-
grams for Kaplan Test Prep Eric Chiu said the survey’s results reﬂ  ect uncertainity about the exam’s effectiveness rather than negativity.
The new MCAT focuses more on critical 
thinking and applying multiple subjects in one problem, Hill said. It also includes a new be-havioral sciences section.
Chiu said one of the biggest mistakes stu-
dents make while preparing for the MCAT is 
viewing it as a hard science test.
“This is not like the ﬁ  nal exams UF stu-
dents took in their intro science classes,” he 
said. “This is not even like ﬁ  nal exams they took in their upper-level classes.”
Chiu said students shouldn’t be concerned 
that medical schools are uncertain about the new MCAT. They will be likely to view it as an improvement once more data is collected, 
he said. 
First-year UF medical student Sama Ilyas 
took the old MCAT in June 2014. She said she 
believes the new one is a better assessment of skills.
“It’s helpful for undergrads to synthesize 
the information together and see how the different sciences relate to each other,” the 21-year-old said.
Ilyas said she thinks administrators are un-
certain about the new MCAT because it’s a big change. 
“It’s pretty drastic, really,” she said. “Ev-
erybody’s adapting to it.”Colleges unsure of new MCAT
Joyce
Wambach earned a spot on the 
U.S. national team right out of 
college and has since continued her dominance.
The 35-year-old forward holds 
the all-time international scoring record with 184 goals. She has competed in four FIFA Women’s World Cups and won her first title in July.
“Obviously Abby has had a 
tremendous legacy, both here at UF and beyond,” UF soccer coach Becky Burleigh said in a Sept. 
28 press conference. “I think the 
thing that’s so remarkable about her is just her leadership.”
Staff writer Jordan McPherson 
contributed to this report.4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015
AP Photo
Abby Wambach, a UF alumna, proudly stands as a 2015 FIFA Women’s 
World Cup champion after the U.S. women’s national team won the games in Canada. Wambach will speak at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Nov. 3 at 8 p.m.
THEY DISCUSSED SALARY RAISES FOR 
GRADUATE ASSISTANTS.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Ioannis Ziogas and Kevin Funk asked UF administra-
tors to re-evaluate their definition of equality on Monday.
Ziogas and Funk, two UF political science graduate 
assistants, sat with three UF administrators and other 
members of Graduate Assistants United to discuss salary raises for graduate assistants. Before the meeting started, Ziogas, 35, taped two posters onto the wall behind him with charts detailing GAU’s salary proposals.
Their first proposal was to change fees from a flat 
$1,440, regardless of stipend amount, to 0.2 percent of the stipend. For example, a graduate assistant making 
$10,000 per year would pay $360 in fees, and someone 
making $40,000 would pay $1,440.
The second proposal was to give higher raises to grad-
uate assistants making the least amount of money, and less to those making the most.
“It’s about principles,” Ziogas said. “It’s about com-
bating inequality.”UF’s chief negotiator Bill Connellan was dissatisfied 
with the proposals and said giving a raise of $1,800 to someone working about 10 hours a week and making $6,500 a year wasn’t fair to graduate assistants who work more. Funk, 33, told Connellan it seemed they had differ-ent definitions of inequality. He said Connellan’s propos-
al of percentage-based raises ends up giving 60 percent of 
the funds to the top 20 percent of earners.
Connellan said he thought percentage-based raises 
were fair.
“I don’t buy the argument that a percent increase is 
inequitable,” he said.
Ziogas said the math shows percentage-based raises, 
like what Connellan proposed, increase the pay gap.
Connellan said he will not agree to GAU’s current pro-
posals and will come back with a counter offer Friday.
Funk said it’s not right that UF brands itself as a fam-
ily-friendly institution when about 1,000 graduate assis-tants are living below the federal poverty level.
“They obviously have no concern for inequality,” he 
said.Grad assistants ask for lower feesWEIRD NEWS
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
Carol Carper always wanted 
a pretty house.
Ideally, it would be a farm: 
a place where the Colorado na-tive could raise her solid black 
Morgan horses. Her dream came 
true 21 years ago in the form of a 58-acre, $1.5 million house in Virginia called Newstead Farm.
But now she wants to give 
her dream away to someone with $233 and 200 words.
Carper, 70, is holding an es-
say contest to determine who 
will receive the more than 
100-year-old farmhouse. She expects 7,000 people worldwide to apply and pay the $233 entry fee, which will cover the value of the house with a bonus of about $100,000. Applicants only need to write 200 words telling her why they want to own New-
stead Farm.
If 7,000 people apply, the 
contest winner will receive the 
additional $100,000.
“It’s a very special place,” 
she said. “To me, it’s just per-fect, and I would like to see if it’s possible to turn it over to someone who would love it as 
much as I do.”
The contest will run until 
Sept. 21, 2016. Carper will nar-
row it down to 20 finalists, and then three anonymous panelists will select the winner.
Carper got the idea from a 
friend, who told her about an essay contest earlier in the year that awarded the Center Lovell Inn in Maine. Carper liked the 
idea of being able to read what 
the next owner wanted to do with the property.
The maintenance of her 58 
acres isn’t much of a problem for Carper. The real issue, she said, is living secluded in the country far away from medical facilities.
Carper said she is also ready 
to retire from planning wed-dings and move to the West Coast to live close to her son in California — even though he disagrees with how she’s getting rid of the house.
He declined to comment.She will sell her four remain-
ing Morgan horses and her Ka-tahdin sheep. But she said she will keep memories of hosting elaborate garden parties on the house’s three porches, playing her Steinway O baby grand pia-no for friends and hosting wed-dings at the farmhouse.
Carper’s mother, Lee, said 
she remembers hiking and cook-ing with her daughter when she would visit from Golden, Colo-rado.
“It was nice to reminisce and 
talk about old times and new times because we don’t see each other very often,” the 89-year-old said.
Carper said while she loves 
her farm, it is time to move on.
“Everything comes to an end 
sometime,” she said. “I think it’s time for me to do that be-cause I love it and don’t want to have it go downhill at all.”Virginia woman holds 
contest to give away $1.5 million farmhouse
ACCENT,  from pg1She is being paid $20,000 to speak
logon, have more RAM (internal memory) 
so programs will run quicker, and they will have all the same software as the AT (Aca-demic Technology) computer labs and the 
Marston Science Library computers,” she 
wrote in an email.
UF economics junior Jewelian Melvin 
said he knows many students who prac-tically schedule their lives around the li-brary’s public computers, especially during midterms and finals. He said the university is doing the right thing by allocating funds 
toward upgrading the outdated computers.  
“It’s kind of about time they get up with 
the newer technology,” the 20-year-old 
said.
As 18-year-old Amanda Lake looked at 
the row of 12 new computers in Library West, the UF pre-pharmacy freshman said spending money on upgrading the library’s computers isn’t what the university needs.
“I don’t know if they’re necessarily 
providing upgrades in the right area,” she 
said.
UF international relations junior Janet Jones said she uses the computers at Li-
brary West almost every day, whether it be to watch class lectures or do last-minute French homework.
Currently, it takes about five minutes 
for her to log into the library’s desktops, the 20-year-old said. She said she’s glad the university realized how outdated the computers are.
“I thought they never would,” she said. 
COMPUTERS,  from pg1Computers will be faster to log on to and will have more memory
when people find out they are the men behind Gumby’s and their famed Pokey Stix — hand tossed 
pizza dough covered in garlic, butter 
and mozzarella cheese.
The most memorable recognition 
for the founders, Hippler said, came 
in 1991 when a Florida State Univer-sity student broke into the state capi-
tol building in Tallahassee and made a list of demands for the police.
The first item on the list was a 
20-inch veggie pizza from Gumby’s with extra jalapeños.
That day, more than 1,000 20-
inch veggie pizzas with extra jala-peños were ordered from Gumby’s 
restaurants across the country, Hip-
pler said.Hippler proudly displays a 
framed newspaper article about the standoff with a copy of the note on the wall by the cash register.
“It’s been a rollercoaster, but it’s 
been fun,” O’Brien said.
The restaurant is still a favorite 
among locals as well.
For the past three years, Douglas 
Tam, a UF pharmacy graduate stu-dent, has gone to Gumby’s every Wednesday with friends from his Bible study group for 50-cent pep-peroni rolls.
“I’m trying to be somewhat con-
sistent,” the 21-year-old said.
Rowdy Gregory, 55, goes to 
Gumby’s to play pool and eat pizza — topped with garlic, spinach and steak.
“It’s just a great place to be,” 
Gregory said. “Everybody loves Gumby’s.”
Hippler and O’Brien plan to con-
tinue expanding the franchise be-yond college towns, and they hope 
to have 100 franchises in the next 
five years.
“We change and learn every 
day,” O’Brien said. “We learn some-thing new and we learn from our 
mistakes.”
PIZZA,  from pg1Gumby’s has restaurants near nine universities across the country“It’s kind of about time they get up with 
the newer technology.”
Jewelian Melvin 
UF economics junior“It’s about principles. It’s about combating 
inequality.”
Ioannis Ziogas
UF political science graduate assistantsTUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
SLIPPERY SAFETY
Andrea Hoyle, a 21-year-old UF environmental engineering senior, explains the type 
of condoms laid out on the Vox: Voices for Planned Parenthood table to Abyu Perez, a 19-year-old UF business management freshman, on Monday on the Plaza of the Ameri-cas. Perez said he stopped for the free pizza but thought promoting safe sex was impor-tant. “It’s lubricated, ” Perez said of the condom he took with him.
LOCAL
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a Florida 
man Sunday night after police said he 
shoplifted and later fractured an ofﬁ  cer’s skull.
At about 8:15 p.m. Sunday, Dennison 
F. Miller, 44, a resident of Bell, Florida, stole about $250 in items from the Archer Road Wal-Mart, most of which were alco-hol, according to a police report.
A man tried to stop Miller and grabbed 
his shirt, which he squirmed out of before running. The man followed Miller and told police he ran into Spanish Trace Apart-ments, according to the report.
Police soon found Miller down the road 
near Hookah Nite Cafe, according to the report.
Miller shoved an ofﬁ  cer and continued 
running until an ofﬁ  cer stopped him at Ar-cher Woods Apartments, less than half a mile away, according to the report.
As the ofﬁ  cer tried to bring Miller to the 
ground, Miller got on top of her and start-ed hitting her, according to the report.
A man and an ofﬁ  cer 
tackled Miller and strug-gled to handcuff him until the ofﬁ  cer used his Taser, according to the report.
The ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  cer who 
fought Miller endured 
several scrapes and cuts, along with a skull frac-
ture, according to the report.
Police arrested Miller on two charges 
of larceny, two charges of battery on an ofﬁ  cer and three charges of resisting an ofﬁ  cer.
Authorities took him to the Alachua 
County Jail where, as of press time, he re-mains in lieu of a $212,500 bond.Man arrested for shoplifting, 
fractured oﬃ   cer’s skull
Miller
By Danitza Yukopila
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF alumnus Kenneth Treister 
believes art and architecture should 
be one in the same, like a married couple.
Treister, an artist-meets-architect 
who graduated from UF in 1953, will speak tonight about his work in ar-chitecture, which is summarized in his book, “The Fusion of Architect 
and Art: The Judaic Work of Ken-
neth Treister.” The lecture will be held in Smathers Library, Room 100, at 6 p.m. He will not be paid.
Students can buy signed copies 
of the book, said Rebecca Jefferson, the head of the Isser and Rae Price Library of Judaica, who helped plan the talk. Treister doodles in each 
book to make it personal.
Jefferson said she hopes attend-
ees learn how Treister combines 
art and architecture, making spaces both functional and beautiful.
“Kenneth has so much to teach,” she said. “He’s somebody who is worth listening to.”
First-year UF sustainable design 
graduate student Asish Asutosh said he is looking forward to attending.
“Coming from a civil engineer-
ing background, it’s great to learn how to combine art in the designs of structures,” the 23-year-old said.Treister was awarded a gold med-
al in 2013 by the Florida Association of the American Institute of Archi-
tects for his work in architecture.
“There’s an emotional compo-
nent to the combination of art and 
architecture,” Treister said, “I want students to be able to hear about it and feel it.”
UF alumnus to speak about marriage of art, architectureThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Democratic Republic of the Congo: violence, hip-hop
The Democratic Republic of the Congo: a 
country we tend to think of so little that many would struggle to identify it on a map. Many Americans remain unaware of the political corruption and militia vio-
lence that ravages the lives of Congolese civil-ians and refugees residing in the DRC. (Do not fret: I only just learned all this while producing this piece.)
For the past year, the primary source of in-
ternal political tension has emerged from Presi-dent Joseph Kabila’s attempts to extend his presidential term limits. According to Article 70 of the 2006 revised DRC constitution, the president serves a ﬁ  ve-year term limit and 
can be re-elected only once. All together, Kabila has led the 
DRC for about 14 years and wishes to extend his presidency even further. The Congolese people are not happy.
In spite of Kabila’s success in reintroducing democratic 
elections to post-civil war DRC, the Congolese have every right to be upset with their government. While the citizens of the DRC uphold their democracy and constitution as te-nets of hope for their country, Kabila feels his administra-tion and inﬂ  uence are most essential to the DRC’s security, 
which has only resulted in top-down political corruption 
and malpractice.
Lack of accountability within the military is a clear ex-
ample of such malpractice. In November 2012, the Congo-lese army took hold in the town of Minova in eastern DRC. Thirty-nine army members were charged with rape and abuse of innocent Minova civilians, yet only two were con-victed and removed from rank. Congolese activist Justine Masika argued, “In the current system, where the military 
court has the responsibility to judge these grave crimes, it’s 
difﬁ  cult for (internal investigations) to stay independent.”
Moreover, security forces take violent and extreme mea-
sures against protesters. In January of this year, when DRC lawmakers delayed a vote over the legislation concerning Kabila’s term limits, protestors took the streets of capital city Kinshasa. Security forces opened ﬁ  re and killed 42 pro-testers in the span of about a week, actions the Internation-al Federation of Human Rights claim “(have) unfortunately become a frequent occurrence in the DRC.”
To top it all off, the government has yet to 
engage and register the estimated 5 million new 
voters since the previous 2011 election, which 
has Congolese youth especially misrepresented and distressed.
In light of all this tragedy, hope and optimism 
are alive and well. In the streets of Goma, the main city in eastern DRC, youth and activist 
members are turning to hip-hop to voice their concerns and political misgivings. Young artists like 27-year-old Jobson Katondolo, sponsored by Yole!Africa, an organization dedi-
cated to bringing art and opportunity to youth across Africa, 
often sit down with children and teenagers of Goma to jam, record music and discuss political activism.
Not only do these opportunities give youth a sense of 
purpose, in turn countering the incentive to join armed groups and militias, but they also spread activist develop-ments to other cities, such as the Filimbi movement de-signed to encourage political engagement among the youth in Kinshasa. In the words of Yole!Africa coordinator Ganza 
Buroko: “When people are shut down we have to develop 
new strategies to rise up.” And these kids are deﬁ  nitely ris-ing up.
So, why does this matter? Well, with the exception of 
Egypt and Libya, Africa receives strikingly little coverage from Western media. Yet, contrary to popular belief, the problems the Congolese face are not all that different from our own problems, casting aside the looming threat from reprehensibly violent militias.
Devastated by decades of war, disenfranchised by a 
non-transparent government and disheartened by brutality against protestors, DRC youth and activists demonstrate for justice, peace and democracy. We can stand to learn a lot from the struggle of our Congolese brothers.
David Hoffman is a UF history and physics sophomore. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.It’s not the end of 
meat as we know it 
and we feel ﬁ  ne
The World Health Organization announced Monday it 
had classiﬁ  ed processed meats as a cancer hazard. The WHO reached this conclusion after the Inter-
national Agency for Research on Cancer conducted 
an exhaustive study of pre-existing literature on the 
subject. Processed meats — which include bacon (sorry, America), sausage and ham — have been labeled under 
the “Group 1” classiﬁ  cation by the IARC, meaning they are 
established carcinogens. Under these standards, processed meats occupy a comfortable position alongside cigarettes, alcohol and, most tantalizingly, asbestos.
Before you read any further: Don’t panic. The “does eat-
ing processed meats cause cancer?” debate has been raging for quite some time, as anyone who has taken ANS2002, otherwise known as The Meat We Eat, can tell you. Al-though Monday’s news lit a ﬁ  re under the bottoms of both 
sides of the debate, with proponents of vegetarianism and 
red-blooded Americans alike rushing to defend their respec-tive positions, the WHO’s press release didn’t tell the pub-lic anything common sense already hadn’t: everything in moderation.
Carcinogen or not, it ought to be eminently apparent 
that a meat-centric diet is not the healthiest option for one’s body. The cheapness of American meat, combined with the comparative afﬂ  uence of our nation, has led Americans to 
consume more meat per person than almost any other na-
tion. We’re also stupidly fat; for those of you swearing off meat because of its carcinogenic properties, be aware you were already feeling the burn (or indigestion) in a number of other health-related areas.
So, yes, as if they weren’t already unhealthy enough, 
processed meats are considered cancer-causing carcinogens now. Does this mean eating hot dogs and smoking Marlboro Reds aren’t all that different? Do we as a nation have to re-
frain from putting any red, phallic-like objects in our mouth 
lest we get cancer? Penile humor aside, the answer is not quite obvious — at least as far as meats go.
As Ed Yong stated in his piece for The Atlantic, “Beeﬁ  ng 
With the World Health Organization’s Cancer Warnings,” 
the classiﬁ  cation system utilized by the IARC is more mis-
leading than most major outlets have reported.
“These classiﬁ  cations are based on strength of evidence 
not degree of risk,” Yong writes. “So these classiﬁ  cations 
are not meant to convey how dangerous something is, just 
how certain we are that something is dangerous.”
We’ll say it once again: Don’t panic. Meat, like nearly 
everything else we can see, hear or touch, has the capacity to kill us. 
We don’t think a panel of the world’s foremost scientiﬁ  c 
minds needed to convene to tell us that. There are sever-al good reasons to think twice before tickling your tongue with the tender delights of meat products on a regular basis; 
don’t let this be the reason you stop indulging entirely.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
David Hoffman
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Coming back home af-
ter living somewhat independently in our 
college-town bubble has 
always been an interest-
ing, if not perplexing, experience for me.
The months leading up to my 
departure for my freshman year at UF were deﬁ  ned by my moth-er’s constant agonizing that once I ﬁ  nally drove to Gainesville I was never 
coming back. This was a fair assumption, 
considering I had spent the majority of my childhood trying to prove I was capable of doing everything on my own (a belief that 
has undeniably been proven false). Hon-
estly, I think a small part of me thought the same thing as my mom: I would be absorbed by some sort of collegiate black hole, never to return home again.
Of course, we were both wrong. I’ve 
come back home, albeit maybe not as often as I really should. Sometimes it requires a full-on guilt trip from my parents to make 
me drive those four hours, but usually 
an overwhelming week will be enough to send me southbound on I-75. I’ve come to expect a few things whenever I make this journey, including my mom asking me if 
I’m eating enough in Gainesville, having 
to tell an uncomfortable amount of adults my post-graduation plans and spending the majority of the weekend talking to my dog. 
But, most of all, I’m constantly struck by 
how my hometown seems to change and stay the same simultaneously.
There are some things that will never 
change. My mom, dad and dog still have 
their designated spots on the couch. I’ll 
get yelled at for slouching and leaving my shoes scattered around the house. Dinner conversation will quickly turn into a heat-
ed football discussion. All these little de-
tails, which seemed so insigniﬁ  cant while I lived there, have become comforting, reminding me while my life in Gainesville constantly changes, there will always be 
one place that remains the same…at least 
to some extent.
The changes that happen while you’re 
gone can creep up on you as well and re-
mind you nothing can escape the effects of time. Each time I come home, I 
can’t help but notice my siblings are a little bit taller, some new 
furniture has appeared and my 
old bedroom has been comman-deered by my brother. This can easily send you into a downward 
spiral of nostalgia and fear if you 
allow it to because let’s be hon-est: Change is scary.
The summer after my fresh-
man year, I visited my old high school to 
pay a visit to some old teachers and po-
tentially embarrass my little brother. As I walked through those familiar halls and peeked through the doors, I could no lon-
ger recognize any of the faces within and 
felt a profound disconnect from a school that had played such a huge role in my life. It was sad, sure, but it also proved encour-aging in that it signaled the end of an era: 
It was time to move on.
Above all, going home forces you to 
realize how much you’ve changed. Even 
though I joke about being a clueless Eng-lish major with a persistent fear of being a 
real adult, coming home forces me to real-
ize I’m at least slightly less clueless than I was three years ago. In Gainesville, it’s easy to compare ourselves to those who seemingly have their lives together, when 
in reality we’re all on our own personal 
journeys. It can be simultaneously exciting and terrifying to see yourself from this dif-
ferent perspective, and sometimes making 
the trip home is all it takes.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English ju-
nior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.Going back home: the reality checkColumn
It was an impressive run. 
Several weeks ago, my iPhone 4S remained un-cased, unbent and unbro-ken. Hubris and the want 
for less cumbersome technology in my pocket drove my decision to abandon the armor that was my OtterBox. It was inevitable, then, that my iPhone’s demise would arrive with irony. Having survived the many boredom-induced lobs, ﬂ  ips and saturnalias, it would ultimately meet its screen-shattering end by dropping 
just a foot from the edge of the nightstand.
Having recently joined the ranks of the 
unemployed (surprisingly enough, I don’t 
get paid to do this), it was no longer ﬁ  s-cally feasible to replace an irreparable, outdated model with the latest sexy smart-phone technology. Instead, I opted for a two-month plan with unlimited text but no Internet. It would be the prepaid and pri-
meval Alcatel OneTouch that would serve 
as my capacity for connection. As I conﬁ  d-ed to the sales associate about my need for less, I began to notice my diminution in status. The Sprint Corporation associate’s simultaneous snickering and brandishing of her own smartphone made me very self-aware of my newly acquired status as an untouchable.
At a recent Halloween party, at which I 
masterfully and respectfully portrayed the late Bruce Lee, I obliviously answered the phone in front of a group of zombies and vampires. One by one, each meandered over to me with what I can only assume was an intentionally monstrous gait after I ﬂ  ipped my phone shut.
“Hey, you’re not a drug dealer are 
you?”
“No. I’m the great Hong Kong, Ameri-
can martial artist and instructor, action ﬁ  lm actor, philosopher, ﬁ  lmmaker and founder of Jeet Kune Do: Bruce Lee.”
“No, I mean I noticed your other cell 
phone. Do you know where to get drugs?”
Some poor joke about opium fell on po-
litically correct ears craving party favors in 
lieu of light conversation, and the suitors 
detached to join other monsters, united in their mockery of my mobile device.
Once in the company of brunch-goers, 
I was asked to secure an Uber, as every-one else’s gorgeous phones had no battery power. You might imagine the embarrass-ment that followed when my cellphone was exposed. Unfortunately, I was not quick-witted enough to provide some excuse to cover my shame. I lost three friends that day.
For a while, I was a husk of 
a man. I would habitually check for Instagram and Snapchat noti-ﬁ  cations that never came. I grew jealous of those who could avoid the terror of human connection 
by attending to their handheld screens. The time it took me to T9 (remember that?) a few sentences the other day was 
particularly harrowing. Yet looking back, 
the tribulations brought on by my poverty are something to be grateful for, as they have presented me with a multitude of op-portunities for personal betterment.
With regards to music, a break from 
the omnipotent and the omniscient smart-phone-enabled streaming services has guided me back to the glory of the studio 
album. Not being able to rely on shufﬂ  ing 
services like Pandora, I’ve found myself using CDs again. Restored are the stories of the album, a quality lost in the playlist-centric apps that have become so popular.
With respect to driving, I can now ac-
tually devote almost all of my attention to the car I’m handling and the road in front of me. As I am no longer inclined to 
Snapchat and drive, drastically reducing 
the chances of inadvertently committing vehicular manslaughter.
But perhaps my proudest example of 
personal growth incurred by being sans smartphone is my inability to cheat in Scrabble. Gone are the days where I’d sneakily Google a word of which I was un-sure. No longer am I able to shamelessly 
pretend I knew the deﬁ  nition of muzjiks 
before the start of the game. I’ve decided my mind is my only tool now, and I be-lieve this newfound desire to be honestly proﬁ  cient in the game has had a positive ripple effect in other aspects of my life.
Winston Churchill once quipped, “An 
optimist sees the opportunity in every dif-ﬁ  culty.” And in the face of the oppressive 
culture surrounding those who are smart-
phone-less, I’ve maintained optimism. Only three more weeks before a free up-grade and I can ditch this piece of shit for an iPhone 5.
Justin Ford is a Santa Fe College 
journalism junior. His column appears on Tuesdays.Life lessons learned from ﬂ  ip phones  Column
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.org
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
“The changes that 
happen while you're 
gone can creep up 
on you as well and 
remind you nothing 
can escape the efects 
of time.”Editor’s note: With Hallow-
een on Saturday, here is a look 
at some ghoulish stories from the Alligator’s past. Each excerpt shown below is taken directly 
from a story initially published 
on Halloween.
.38 Special will perform 
tonight (Oct. 31, 1991)
UF students who get all 
dressed up this Halloween may have nowhere to go if they had planned on attending the school’s annual Halloween Ball.
Although .38 Special will be 
in concert at the Bandshell to-night from 7 to 9, Student Gov-ernment Production officials have canceled the traditional costume contest. SGP chairman Andrea Kaufman said “reckless and wild” costumes have offend-ed people in the past. As a result, 
UF students won’t get a chance 
to dress up this year.
Nonetheless, Kaufman said 
SGP officials didn’t want stu-dents to sit home on Halloween so they booked .38 Special for the concert.
Throughout its 14 year his-
tory, .38 Special has produced 
Southern rock ‘n’ roll hits, such 
as “Hold on Loosely,” “Caught Up In You,” “Back Where you Belong” and “Second Chance.”
The show is free and is spon-
sored by SGP and Rock 104.
Child ‘ghost’ spooks vis-
itors of Archer house (Oct. 
31, 2002)
After seeing a man laying in 
her bed and hearing sirens and 
bells come out of his mouth, Leah Kasicki decided she had enough. The Archer resident and 
her family had lived in the house 
for only a few months when she experienced the actions of the al-legedly haunted spirits playing in her home. She left the house more than 10 years ago, and when she visits her parents, she can’t bear to spend the night.
“She came down to breakfast 
one morning and said, ‘Mom, why were you sitting on my bed last night?’” remembered her mother Linda, who said she had been asleep all night.
Leah reported to her mother 
that a woman in a white night-gown entered her room from an 
adjoining room. Linda believes 
the spirits of previous residents still inhabit the historic house, which was built in the late 1870s.
Real-life witches ready 
for holiday (Oct. 31, 1983)
For many people, Halloween 
is a time for costumes, candy and children. But for Flash Sil-vermoon, Halloween is a major holiday — which is what one 
would expect from a self-pro-
claimed witch.
“Halloween is the witches’ 
new year,” Silvermoon said at a National Organization for Wom-en (NOW) meeting last Thurs-day.
Tonight Silvermoon and 
about 30 other Gainesville witch-
es will gather to “raise energy 
and create a positive vibration for the planet,” she said
One member of the audience 
said she had hurt her knee. Sil-vermoon attempted to heal it. She held her right hand in the air, palm up. This was the hand she said she used to collect energy. 
She then placed her left hand 
over the girl’s knee, and moved it in slow circles. This was the hand she said was used to send energy and heal.
“I can’t say that I honestly 
feel the difference,” the girl said afterward.
- Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa 
Fisher and Jordan McPherson8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015
CAMPUS
By Van Miller
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF management master’s student Robyn 
Quiroga said she hopes to one day open a business with friends.
To learn the skills to create her own 
startup, the 29-year-old said she will attend 
the UF Center for Entrepreneurship and In-
novation’s workshop tonight at Infinity Hall from 7 p.m. to 8:15 p.m. Students can also listen to keynote speaker Michael Morris.Morris, the program director for the Cen-
ter for Entrepreneurship and Innovation, will highlight the unexpected trials that 
come with starting a business. He said he 
wants to show attendees how to think about people, resources and money. He will not be paid.
“The essential focus is to look at entre-
preneurship as a journey and to highlight the unexpected things that will happen on that journey,” Morris said. “This is less about advice and more about the entrepre-neur’s personal journey.”
Morris, who has been teaching entrepre-
neurship for about 30 years, said he will also share his personal experiences of start-ing a business.  
“Business startup failure rates are signifi-
cant,” Morris said. “Much of that is because 
of lack of understanding of the reality of 
what you’re in for.”
Quiroga said she’s excited for the work-
shop and hopes to learn something new.
“I attend the entrepreneurship events be-
cause the speakers are always very good, and they provide a much more realistic take on business,” she said.UF entrepreneurship professor gives students startup tips
TRAVELING TALENTS
RIGHT:
Jared Mcqueen, 30, shows off 
his chin-balancing skills on the Plaza of the Americas on Mon-day. Mcqueen traveled to Flor-ida from North Carolina for a minivacation after the end of his farm’s vegetable season. He said he practiced balancing a broom-stick on his chin before moving onto larger objects. “If you can do it with a stick, ” he said, “you can do it with anything. ”
BOTTOM:
Sumati Bellesy, 67, plays a Shruti box while chanting “Shri Krishna Sharanam Mama” on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday. She said she traveled about 3,000 miles from Califor-nia to visit the International So-ciety for Krishna Consciousness Alachua Hare Krishna T emple. Bellesy has been in Florida for three months and plans to stay for two more.
Photos by Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
“Business startup failure rates are 
significant. Much of that is because of 
lack of understanding of the reality of 
what you’re in for.”
Michael Morris
program director
THIS WEEK IN GAINESVILLE
HALLOWEEN EDITIONTUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
Cooper Ingram, an 18-year-old UF applied physiology and kine-
siology freshman, squirreled into his high hanging hammock on Monday. “Squirreling” is a technique performed by hammockers by flipping the hammock upside down and using body weight to twist right side up again.
Photos by Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
RIGHT:
Leo Diaz, a 19-year-old UF bi-ology sophomore, shortens the rope holding his hammock to a concrete pole on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday. Diaz said it was his first time ham-mocking, and he had learned to string up his hammock from a friend who bought it for him.
Framed by the arms of UF Hammock Club’s co-founder Jefferson Packer, 21-year-old industrial and systems engineering senior Kay-la Duckworth colors in an “ENO” stencil on the sidewalk next to the Plaza of the Americas. Eagles Nest Outfitters is a popular brand of hammocks. She said she did this to catch people’s attention. “Also, I wanted to play with chalk, ” Duckworth said.
Hangin’ in hammocks
ABOVE:
Kyle Stoughton, a 19-year-old UF marketing sophomore, whipped out his umbrella as the sky drizzled rain on the UF Hammock Club’s first Plaza T akeover event. Stoughton, the treasurer of the club, sur-prised fellow hammockers with his preparedness. For him, the event was important for people to get to know and bond with other hammockers.
RIGHT:
Hanging among empty ham-mocks, Nick Bourdon sways above the Plaza of the Americas on Monday during the Ham-mock Club’s first Plaza T ake-over event. The 19-year-old UF finance freshman encouraged students passing by to try out one of the hammocks around him. Bourdon said hammock-ing creates a networking space to meet new people. “It’s like the Reitz Union, but people just hang around, ” he said.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLCReal Estate Services“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-30-15-15-5
Herring Realty3BR/1.5BA HOUSE on 1 ACRE. Located be-tween Trenton & Belle. Must see to appreci -
ate. $79,900. Call Lois Litchfield at 352-354-5341    11-2-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-1398 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
Designated drivers are the greatest
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       10-30-15-10-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Collins Reinforcing is now hiring Rodbusters 
rebar ironworkers experienced and non ex-perienced for work at the Gainsville Standard Call 828 442 9798 or 828 659 2867    10-27-14-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
is now hiring cooks, pizza makers, servers, 
and delivery drivers. Apply in person at 5 SE 
2nd Ave.    11-6-15-12-14
Hiring Insurance Licensed Sales Producer
Active 4-40 or 2-20 License RequiredEmail Resume to JudyLocascio@Allstate.com     10-30-15-5-14
Gainesville Modern
Seeks developer for new website.
Prefer flat fee for initial rollout. Submit pro-
posal w/ references to mike@mhastings.com.    
11-2-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
20 Event Notices 14 Help Wanted 23 Rides 25 Lost & Found 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida women's basketball 
coach Amanda Butler has amped up the physicality in practice during the preseason. Read the story on pg. 14. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Hargreaves named Jim Thorpe Award Semifinalist
UF junior defensive back Vernon Hargreaves III was named a semifinalist for 
the Jim Thorpe Award, the Oklahoma Sports Hall of Fame and Jim Thorpe Assocation announced Monday. Hargreaves is one of 16 semifinalists for the award recognizing the best defensive back in college football. By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
When people talk about Florida sopho-
more quarterback Treon Harris, much of 
the conversation revolves around what he’s lacking.
He isn’t tall enough.
His arm isn’t the most strong or the 
most accurate. 
He doesn’t make decisions quickly 
enough.But what is often overlooked is what 
the sophomore does have — experience playing in big games in some of the most 
hostile environments in college football, paired with the ability to handle the situ-ation.“He’s a gamer,” offensive lineman Trip 
Thurman said.
In just the bits and pieces of two sea-
sons Harris has played in during his time in Gainesville, he has already competed in Neyland Stadium (Tennessee), Doak Campbell Stadium (Florida State), Tiger Stadium (LSU) and the split-stadium at-mosphere of the Florida-Georgia game in Jacksonville.
While the quarterback was far from 
impressive in all of those games, he man-Sophomore QB accustomed to SEC stage
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
Florida volleyball has found its 
rhythm.
After sweeping Arkansas on Fri-
day, senior setter Mackenzie Dagos-tino sensed a change in the team's 
energy heading into Sunday's match against Missouri,
“If I was Missouri I’d be worried 
coming into this game,” Dagostino 
said. 
“We’ve gotten our mojo back.”After suffering back-to-back five-
set defeats against Missouri and Ar-kansas on the road earlier this month as part of a three-game losing skid, questions arose about UF’s abilities.But the Gators 
trampled the Tigers and Ra-zorbacks over 
the  weekend in the O’Connell Center, sweep-ing both matches 
and earning their 
fifth- and sixth-
straight victory. 
The victories were nice for coach 
Mary Wise’s team, but she was hap-pier with what they learned from the losses and how they applied that knowledge this weekend.
“We never said this was a re-
venge week or we’re avenging loss-es,” Wise said.
However, it sure looked as if Flor-
ida was playing with a vengeance.
UF didn’t allow Missouri or Ar-
kansas to score more than 17 points in any set, outscoring them 150-85.
In the losses to both teams ear-
lier this month, Florida held its op-ponents to less than 17 points in just one of the eight 25-point sets.
“That speaks a lot to our team de-
fense, plays that we’re able to make now (and) what we’re doing from an offensive standpoint,” Wise said.
On the attacking side against Mis-
souri, the Gators took advantage of 
opportunities using their outside hit-
ters.
Sophomore Carli Snyder led the 
way with 12 kills while senior Ziva Despite win streak, UF volleyball still learning from early lossesSOCCER
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
The Florida soccer team got a result on 
Sunday night that it hadn’t gotten all sea-
son — a conference shutout.
Heading into the weekend, Florida had 
endured a recent spell of late defensive lapses in three of the four games leading up to two Southeastern Conference match-
es. 
In the week leading up to the 4-0 win 
over Arkansas, the No. 8 Gators (13-3-1, 
7-2-1 SEC) and coach Becky Burleigh em-phasized the team needed to play a full 90 
minutes.
Burleigh’s squad would end up deliver-
ing in both regards by the end of the week.
The Gators continued their five-game 
winning streak on Thursday night, win-
ning in double overtime on a last-second goal from junior midfielder Liz Slattery. 
And on Sunday, the team shut down 
an Arkansas team that had already been 
eliminated from the SEC tournament.
“Just getting the shutout means a lot to 
us,” freshman midfielder Briana Solis said 
following Sunday’s game. 
“That was one of our big goals.”Burleigh said she was extremely happy 
with the shutout and hopes the team con-tinues to get better during a short week of practice.
“It seems like it’s been a very long time 
since we’ve had one, and I think (Sunday) in particular it was a total team effort to get that shutout," Burleigh said.UF relieved 
following first SEC shutout 
Ariana Figueroa / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Treon Harris prepares to pass during Florida's 35-28 loss to LSU on Oct. 10 at Tiger Stadium in Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana. SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
They've won six straight
Wise
“I just think he’s a really focused guy, 
and that stuff just really doesn’t play 
an effect on him.”
Quincy Wilson
UF defensive back
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
With the start of practice now all but 
gone from the team’s rearview mirror and 
the start of the regular season still a ways 
off, the Florida women’s basketball team 
is doing everything possible to remain fo-cused. 
Coach Amanda Butler said the chal-
lenge is twofold, and her staff is doing ev-
erything possible to address both the indi-
vidual and collective challenges that show up at this point in the preseason.
“We do a lot of things individually, a lot 
of individual challenges to them to try and 
improve through watching film or pointing 
out specific things that we want each in-dividual to try and strive to improve from 
day to day or week to week,” Butler said 
on Monday.  
“And then collectively just reminders of 
where we’re at, how far away we are from our goals. Being able to work in the closed 
scrimmages really helps … and so there’s 
little things sprinkled in there to remind you and keep you excited.”
Part of what has helped the team as a 
whole stay focused is the competitive at-mosphere in practice, which several play-ers have brought up recently. 
Among them is redshirt senior point guard Cassie Peoples, who said that the competition has been noticeable on both 
ends of the floor. 
“When we defend each other, we’re not 
just letting each other do what we want,” 
Peoples said. “We’re actually pressuring 
each other the way an opposing opponent 
would do.“When we’re going on offense we try 
to score on each other every time we go — we’re not trying to give each other any-thing easy.”
Aside from helping the team stay fo-
cused, the competitive atmosphere of prac-tice should test the Gators constantly.
The hope is when Southeastern Confer-
ence play rolls around in January, Flor-ida is prepared for the brutal conference 
schedule.  Last season, with an abysmal confer-
ence record of 5-11, UF finished 12th out 
of the 14 SEC teams. 
This year’s SEC Women’s Basketball 
Preseason Media Poll has Florida slated for 
another 12th-place finish, in front of only 
the two schools from neighboring Ala-bama. 
“It’s been pretty brutal — brutal in a 
good way though,” Butler said.
“It gets really intense. That’s another 
thing that we want to do, we want that to be a part of our identity as well. … We don’t just compete well, we compete with 
a great deal of intensity and I think our 
practices are giving us that opportunity.”
Florida is only two years removed from 
a second-round exit in the NCAA women’s basketball tournament, and three of the 
starters from that team in Ronni Williams, 
Cassie Peoples and Carlie Needles are still significant contributors. 
With all of the off-court distractions that 
the team endured last year, most within the program are confident the Gators are on the upswing heading into the season. 
Peoples, for one, feels that this team is 
definitely capable of reaching new heights. 
“I want this team to go somewhere 
we’ve never gone,” she said. 
“I want us to make it deep into the 
NCAA playoffs, I want us to have a 20-
win season this year, I want us to go un-
defeated in non-conference and there’s no reason why we can’t be top four or five in the SEC.”14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Redshirt senior Cassie Peoples dribbles the ball during Florida’s 64-56 loss to 
T ennessee on Feb. 8 in the O’Connell Center. 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF junior T aylor Tubbs runs during the Mountain Dew Invitational  on Sept. 19 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
CROSS COUNTRY
By Alejandro López
Alligator Writer
@ajlb95
Youth is lively.
It’s energetic. It’s tenacious.For the Florida men’s and wom-
en’s cross country teams, the youth hasn’t just survived in a supporting role. 
It’s thrived and led the charge.
With an 11-woman freshman 
class — one that equals last sea-
son’s entire roster in strength of numbers — the team has benefitted from newfound depth.
And heading into this weekend’s 
Southeastern Conference cham-pionships, that depth will need to show if the team hopes to knock 
two-time defending champs Arkan-
sas off of its pedestal.
The squad will be back at full 
strength for the first time in weeks: Redshirt sophomore Becky Greene, 
scratched from Pre-Nationals af-
ter running the brunt of the Notre Dame Invitational with one shoe, is full go, while junior Taylor Tubbs 
will return from illness.
In their absence, however, a 
pair of international rookies filled 
the void, seemingly emerging as the team’s top-two runners of the 
future.
Scandinavian athletes Maria 
Larsen and Elisabeth Bergh have placed among the top four Gators 
at every meet they’ve competed in, 
pushing Greene and Tubbs for the 
team’s top spots and leading fellow freshmen, such as Maddox Patter-son and Caitlin McQuilkin-Bell.
“I thought Maria Larsen did a 
great job; 21st overall as a fresh-man, true freshman, really mixed it up with some of the top runners in the country, the kind of who’s who 
of college cross country.” coach 
Paul Spangler said Monday. 
“I don’t think she really kind 
of understood how good a perfor-
mance that was for her, but I was 
very, very pleased with her race. I think she showed at Pre-Nationals that she can mix it up with any-body, and even though she’s a 
freshman, she’s mature beyond her 
years.”
Naming a seven-runner roster 
composed of Greene, Tubbs and 
five freshmen, Spangler is comfort-
able with resorting to a young roster for a large meet. 
The fourth-year cross country 
coach didn’t hesitate to commend 
his freshman runners for their early 
showings.
“Elisabeth Bergh, her first 6k of 
her career, I thought she did a solid 
job,” Spangler said. 
“(She) has really done a great 
job for somebody coming in as 
more of a track athlete. Maddox Patterson, another runner, another freshman for us, who’s done a re-
ally good job; I thought she had her 
best race of the year at Pre-Nats.”
Much of the same stands for the 
men’s contingent, which reeled in 
an eight-man freshman recruiting 
class to support star redshirt seniors Jimmy Clark and Eddie Garcia.
The men enter the week with the 
weight of momentum on their side. 
Of the seven true freshmen who 
raced in the pair of races on Oct. 16 and 17, five posted collegiate bests, with Tampa native Jack Guyton’s 
24:58.6 8k setting the pace for his 
peers.
If Guyton and company hope to 
trounce leviathan Arkansas, victors of 22 of the last 24 Southeastern 
Conference championships, their 
best must get better.
“I think we’re as good as them 
up front, 1 and 2 spot,” Spangler 
said. “…We just gotta have some 
production out of our 3, 4 and 5.”
And with their eyes set on gold, 
the cross country youth movement needs to do what it has up to this 
point-deliver.
“It’s a very, very different lineup 
for the men and the women com-
pared to last year’s group,” Span-
gler said,“but we’ve got a strong 
freshman class, and you’ll see a lot of new names on the roster for SECs this weekend.”Youth progression encouraging UF
Gators hoping intense practices increase team toughness
Butler: It’s been pretty brutalRecek followed with 11 kills. Both 
hit over .400.
“Ziva and Carli did a terrific job 
in finishing plays,” Wise said. 
“(They made) really good deci-sions in creating kills.”
Against Arkansas it was the 
6-foot-4 sophomore middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan, who pounded a match high 14 kills on 19 swings.
In both the Friday and Sunday 
matches, Florida held its opponents 
to hitting percentages below .100. Offensively, UF hit .449 against 
Arkansas and .398 versus Missouri.
Florida also managed to stop Mis-
souri’s Carly Kan, one of the South-
eastern Conference’s best outside hitters. Kan, who ranks 7th in kills in the SEC, tallied just nine kills on 
36 swings against the Gators defense 
Sunday.
“We held one of the premier play-
ers in the league well below her hit-ting percentage,” Wise said. “That’s a team effort.”
Wise said her biggest takeaways 
from this weekend were the low-error play and UF's ability to disrupt 
opposing team’s hitters.
“Those are things that work well 
for us and we’ll try to work on the 
rest of the season.”
The Gators proved their versatil-
ity and efficiency this weekend, but more importantly they bounced back and showed their resiliency.
Wise is content with where her 
team is, but she knows there’s more work to do.
“We’re trending in the right direc-
tion, and it’s about improvement,” she said. “It helps sell the plan to the players when the results are with wins, (but) regardless of the outcome we see where we’re getting better and that’s what you’re trying 
to do in college athletics.”
But improvement does no good if 
it means having to learn from losses 
against teams Florida may see just once.
Once the regular season comes to 
an end and postseason play arrives, UF won’t get the chance to learn from a loss.
That’s Wise’s main focus now.“We’ve gotta learn how to speed 
up that learning process when you only play a team once,” she said.
Essentially, the only season that 
matters is the postseason.
Wise is trying to lead Florida deep 
into the NCAA tournament, which she said is a season-long process.
“What you’re trying to do is be a 
much better team in December, and we have these four months to make that happen,” she said. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
aged to make plays when neces-sary — whether it be with his 
feet, where Harris is arguably the 
most dangerous, or through the air, where he was serviceable but not extraordinary. 
And in each game, the Gators 
either came away with the vic-tory or had a chance to win on their final possession in every single one of them. 
Now, the Gators and coach 
Jim McElwain will be hoping the sophomore iteration of Harris will see similar success at Ever-bank Field in Jacksonville. 
With the annual world's larg-
est outdoor cocktail party loom-ing against the Bulldogs on Sat-urday, Harris’ demeanor and 
composure in such games is a 
confidence booster for his team.
“Coming from where he’s 
from, he’s always had to play in big games so I feel like at-mospheres like that don’t really have much effect on him,” de-fensive back Quincy Wilson said. “That’s the type of person he is.
“I just think he’s a really fo-
cused guy, and that stuff just really doesn’t play an effect on him.”
Playing in big matchups start-
ed for Harris long before he came to UF.
The quarterback played high 
school football at Booker T. 
Washington, one of the top high 
school football factories in Flor-ida. 
There, he played in numer-
ous high-profile games while accounting for 117 total touch-downs in three seasons at the helm.
During those three years, he helped lead his team to back-to-back state championships in 
2012 and 2013, as well as a run-
ner-up spot in 2011.
“You look at the historical 
background of Treon himself, he won a few ball games in high school,” coach Jim McElwain said. “That was a pretty darn suc-cessful program he came from.
“The stage is not too big for 
him. That’s the least of the wor-ries.”
Of greater worry for McEl-
wain would be whether Harris can provide a more balanced of-fensive attack than he did in last year’s Georgia game.
Harris didn’t do much in the 
2014 contest against the Bull-
dogs, completing just three pass-
es while only attempting six as the Gators’ rushing game domi-nated en route to a 38-20 victory.
But according to wide receiver 
Brandon Powell, who like Har-ris was also a freshman in last year’s game, simply having wit-nessed the environment and felt 
the magnitude of the game in 
person once already is a signifi-cant advantage.
“They tried to tell me last 
year, but once you get on that field and see black on one side and orange and blue on the other side, it’s crazy,” Powell said. 
“How crazy the fans go when 
you make a play — you’ve just got to experience it. You can’t tell someone how crazy the game is.”
FOOTBALL,  from pg13Treon Harris has a 
5-3 record as UF's 
starting quarterback Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF midfielder Briana Solis races over to defender Rachelle Smith after scoring her first 
collegiate goal during the second half of Florida's 4-0 win against Arkansas on Sunday.
“We played a lot of people and it was 
really exciting to see us especially against 
a team like Arkansas who is dangerous in 
so many different ways that are not nor-
mal ways we see all season. We had to really adapt to them with that and I think our team did a pretty good job.”
The shutout was only the third for the 
team all season and the second for fresh-man goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese.
Marckese, who initially split time with 
redshirt junior Val Tysinger in the goal 
before stepping into a full-time starting 
role for the Gators as of late.
She recorded six saves in the victory, 
with three coming in the final 10 minutes 
of the match.
The six saves were also the most 
Marckese has tallied in any game this sea-
son. 
The next highest total came Thursday against South Carolina when she had five saves in UF's double overtime victory over the Gamecocks. 
And on Sunday, Burleigh tested her 
depth in the 4-0 win by playing 23 play-ers and substituting out the three seniors in the 80th minute, giving them a curtain 
call on the team’s senior night.
Burleigh took off the three upperclass-
men and replaced them with three fresh-
men — defenders Jessie Holmes and Courtney Douglas and midfielder Sarah 
Troccoli — in a moment that seemed to 
symbolize a changing-of-the-guard for the program.
“I think that’s awesome. Let our se-
niors rest a little bit, they always play so much,” Marckese said following Sunday’s game. 
“They give so much for us, especially 
us freshmen, that we want to do as much 
as we can to give to them and put that on 
the field to show our support and our ap-preciation.”SOCCER,  from pg13Florida utilized its depth by playing 23 players on Sunday
VOLLEYBALL,  from pg 13UF offense has hit its stride recently 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF setter Mackenzie Dagostino sets the ball during Florida's 3-0 
win against T exas A&M on Oct. 9 in the O'Connell Center.“The stage is not too big for 
(Treon). That's the least of 
the worries.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015
GATORS IN THE NFL
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
Gators in the NFL returns for Week 7 and 
features a last-minute go-ahead touchdown 
catch, a successful outing by a former UF coach and a pair of forced fumbles from two ex-Gators.
Rally in Washington:  Down by six 
points with 28 seconds remaining, Washing-ton quarterback Kirk Cousins looked for his favorite red zone target: Jordan Reed.
Reed’s 6-yard reception capped the Red-skins’ 24-point comeback against Tampa Bay on Sunday, one in which Reed recorded a game-high 11 receptions for 72 yards and two touchdowns. 
The former UF tight end is currently sec-
ond among NFL tight ends with 35 recep-tions, averaging 10 yards per catch.
Reed’s teammate and former UF running 
back Matt Jones received the bulk of the car-ries for Washington, gaining 29 yards on nine touches.
For the Buccaneers, receiver Louis Mur-
phy caught one pass for 29 yards in Tampa Bay’s 31-30 loss. But the team announced Monday that 
Murphy would miss the rest of the season with a torn ACL suffered against the Red-skins. 
Quinn continues to win: Coach Dan 
Quinn’s Atlanta Falcons got back to their win-ning ways on Sunday after a 31-21 Thursday night loss at New Orleans last week. 
The Falcons defeated Tennessee 10-7 and 
limited the Titans to 256 total yards — 77 rushing and 179 passing.
Quinn’s defense also ranks second in 
the NFL in rushing yards allowed per game (78.6).The Falcons (6-1) are off to their best 
start since 2012 and have already equaled the number of wins they recorded all of last season.
Defense:  Jacksonville free safety Josh 
Evans led all former Gators with five tackles and one pass defense in the Jaguars 34-31 win over Buffalo on Sunday morning in London. 
Both linebacker Jelani Jenkins (Miami) 
and defensive tackle Jaye Howard (Kansas City) each logged three tackles and forced a fumble in their team’s victories on Sunday. 
Read the full story online at www.alligator.
org/sports.Reed leads Redskins’ comeback; Jaguars soar in London