We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 20 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015
UF soccer downs FIU with scoring 
barrage
Four Florida players recorded a goal in the 6-1 
win, pg 15.
Student Body president ﬁ  les petition to UF su-
preme court
It’s to make SG more transparent, pg. 3
For low-income UF students, money goes far
Low tuition and scholoarships ranked UF high, pg. 5Micro wrestling photo stoty
It was at the High Dive Friday , pg. 8
KENTUCKY 9 FLORIDA 14
‘FIGURING OUT HOW TO WIN’
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
LEXINGTON, Ky. — Jim McElwain walked 
off the ﬁ  eld at Commonwealth Stadium on Sat-
urday breathing a sigh of relief.
Just like the ﬁ  rst two weeks of the season, 
Florida came out victorious, this time taking 
out Kentucky 14-9 on the Wildcats’ newly reno-
vated home turf.But on Saturday — Florida’s ﬁ  rst road game 
and ﬁ  rst Southeastern Conference game of the 
season — McElwain saw something different 
from his players.
For the ﬁ  rst time this season, UF’s coach 
saw what he needed to from his team.
The Gators weren’t perfect in any sense of 
the word, but to McElwain, they got the job done and gave him enough to work with for the weeks to come.
“Our guys are ﬁ  guring out how to win,” McElwain said. “That was a real happy locker room in there, and that was great to see. They deserve it.”
In a game where offense was hard to come 
by, UF’s defense saved the day, just as it has become accustomed to doing.
The Gators pressured the Wildcats early, 
sacking Kentucky quarterback Patrick Towles six times and logging 10 tackles behind the line of scrimmage.
Senior Jonathan Bullard and redshirt junior 
Alex McCalister led the way with two sacks 
apiece, while linebacker Jarrad Davis and safe-
ty Keanu Neal combined for 19 total tackles.
“Everyone went out there and gave it their all,” Bullard said. “When we needed big plays, people stepped up and did it.”
Sandwiching the Gators’ pressure-ﬁ  lled at-
tack were a pair of interceptions by Vernon Hargreaves III and Quincy Wilson. 
The ﬁ  rst — a 53-yard return from Harg-
reaves to set up a Florida touchdown ﬁ  ve plays later — made a statement early that Florida wasn’t going to lay down. 
The second — Wilson’s grab on an under-
thrown Hail Mary from Towles with 33 ticks on the clock before being embraced by his team-
mates — sealed the victory. UF looking to ride momentum
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
LOCALINTERNATIONAL 
STUDENTS ARE
 RESTRICTED TO 
ON-CAMPUS JOBS.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Vinayak Ganesh said the day he 
left Mumbai, India, was one of the 
saddest of his life.
Once he got to UF, it took the 
fourth-year information systems 
and operations management gradu-
ate student about a month to settle down.Ganesh, 24, said his father had 
been planning for him to earn more than a bachelor’s degree for about 
20 years. He didn’t have to take 
out a loan, thanks to his parents’ savings, but he applied for a job at the UF Bookstore to cover living ex-penses.
Ganesh is one of about 6,200 
international students at UF, many of whom ﬁ  nd it difﬁ  cult to pay for both tuition and living expenses. 
International students are re-
stricted to only on-campus jobs because of federal regulations, said 
Debra Anderson, director of Inter-
national Student Services. They are also not allowed to work more than 20 hours a week. One minute over and they could lose their legal sta-tus.
“The federal government looks 
at employment as totally second-ary to their purpose for being here,” 
Anderson said.
Even though employment is 
secondary, it’s necessary for many Caught in the middle
Harley O’Neill / Alligator
PARKING DAY PRINCESS
Juniper Eddleton, 5, jumps into a game of hopscotch during (PARK)ing 
Day on Saturday on the corner of Northeast First Avenue and Main Street. UF’s Student Chapter of American Society of Landscape Archi-tects set up “pop-up parks” downtown this weekend to promote more public, green space in the urban environment. Read the story on page 3.
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
After UF President Kent Fuchs raised the univer-
sity’s minimum wage from $10 to $12 an hour, the 
Alachua County Labor Coalition is still contending with other actors in the community to do the same.
The ACLC’s Living Wage Campaign is a nearly 
ﬁ  ve-year plan urging the 10 largest employers in the county to pay a living wage of $14.57 by 2021, said ACLC board member Sheila Payne.
“President Fuchs knew UF was part of the big 10 
and did the right thing to move these workers from $10 to $12,” she said. “It’s an acknowledgment that something needed to be done.”
After the coalition’s success with getting the 
Wage Theft Protection Ordinance passed in 2013, Payne said coalition members are optimistic about passing the Living Wage Ordinance. It would bene-ﬁ  t under-paid Alachua County workers like janitors, 
custodians and security guards.
The top ﬁ  ve largest employers include UF, UF 
Health, Malcolm Randall Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, the Alachua County School Board and the City of Gainesville. 
The Living Wage Ordinance could affect some 
UF students, like graduate student Fred Byrd, who attended the ACLC meeting Thursday night.
Byrd works as a graduate assistant at UF’s Teach-
ing Center. He said he sees tutors there who are not valued or adequately compensated for their work, which he said is integral to the basic mission of the university: to educate.
“Sometimes I’ll see 40 students to four tutors,  Group campaigns for higher wagesSEE INTERNATIONAL,  PAGE 4
SEE LABOR,  PAGE 4“The federal government 
looks at employment as 
totally secondary to their 
purpose for being here.” 
Debra Anderson
director of International 
Student ServicesSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
National Voter Registration Day 
Join the Bob Graham Center, 
Student Government, Florida 
Blue Key,  College Republicans and College Democrats and reg-ister to vote on Tuesday in Pugh 
Hall. Every student who regis-
ters will receive a slice of pizza, 
a reusable cup and be eligible for many prizes including Chipotle 
gift cards and GoPro cameras.
Global Fellows Program Calls for 
ApplicationsThe UF International Center is pleased to announce a new fel-
lowship program to assist facul-
ty in developing or advancing an international research agenda. The Global Fellows Program will 
provide support for faculty with 
one-on-one consultations, seed funding up to $4,000, honoria of $1,000 for a Faculty Mentor, access to a series of four work-
shops on proposal preparation, 
opportunities for networking and building partnerships. Two information sessions will be held 
in the Large Conference Room in 
the International Center the first week of October 2015 (one Oct. 7 at 4 p.m. and the other Oct. 8 at 10 a.m.). Regular UF faculty 
members are eligible. Faculty 
within the first 10 years of their academic career and those with strong international research in-
terests will receive priority. For 
complete details and the appli-cation form, please visit ufic.ufl.edu/OGRE/FundingOpp.html
Funding Opportunity for 
Graduate studentsThe International Center, in conjunction with the College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences, the 
Graduate School and the Office of the Provost, is pleased to an-nounce the 2015-2016 Research 
Abroad for Graduate Students 
funding opportunity. This op-portunity is open to advanced doctoral students in the STEM disciplines to conduct an ex-
tended period of research at 
a foreign laboratory or field-site during Spring or Summer 2016. Selected students will 
receive funding up to $10,000 
toward the cost of the interna-tional research trip. Applicants should submit all materials electronically to the Office for 
Global Research Engagement at 
OGRE@ufic.ufl.edu, with sub-ject line  “Research Abroad for Graduate Students Application,” 
no later than 3 p.m. on Friday, 
Oct. 23.For complete details and appli-cation form, please visit ufic.ufl.edu/OGRE/FundingOpp.html
Please direct any questions to 
Nikki Kernaghan at: nikkik@ufic.ufl.edu.
Authors@UF: Ieva Jusionyte
Dr. Jusionyte, a cultural anthro-pologist with a background in news journalism who has con-ducted fieldwork in the tri-bor-
der region between Argentina, 
Brazil and Paraguay, a haven of international organized crime, will speak 4 p.m. Tuesday in 
Smathers Library, Room 100.  
Her new book, “Savage Frontier: Making News and Security on the Argentine Border” (2015, UC Press), focuses on the lives 
and practices of local journalists 
who routinely encounter crime and violence but function within 
a media serving to maintain the 
boundary between news and public secrets.
Source Program
The Source Program is a mul-
tidisciplinary clinic at the UF 
Levin College of Law that serves 
victims of domestic, dating and sexual violence. The program provides free and confidential 
legal representation, mental 
health counseling and case man-agement. Legal interns litigate issues such as immigration and restraining orders for protection against do-mestic violence. The program also has a social worker who specializes in intimate partner violence and provides counsel-ing to clients. Lastly, the program’s victim advocate helps with navigating the legal system and providing valuable community resources. If you or anyone you know wish to contact the clinic, please call 352-273-0805 or email drake@law.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Keep 
them to 150 words fewer. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 20
HIGH  90° LOW  70°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Eva Sailly,  Makayla Thomas,    
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
UF Student Body President Jo-
selin Padron-Rasines filed a peti-
tion with UF’s Supreme Court on 
Friday regarding the constitution-
ality of the current SG executive committee.
The petition, written by Nicho-
las Gurney, solicitor general, ad-dresses issues in executive ap-pointments this past summer. The appointments for six execu-tive positions took 105 days to 
confirm. The petition states, in re-cent years, the executive commit-
tee has had powers not allotted in the constitution, such as the selection of the executive cabinet, advisor and agency heads.
On Aug. 25, Padron-Rasines 
vetoed reforms to the 500 codes because of a clause regarding the executive committee, which currently consists of the Student 
Body president, vice president, 
treasurer and Student Senate president, Senate pro tempore and Senate budget and appropria-tions committee chairperson.
This clause allowed for three 
members of Senate to vote twice for members appointed by the executive branch, once during the nomination process and once during the senate approval pro-
cess. This vio-lates the separa-
tion of powers.
The petition 
was created in 
response to the 
gridlock in Sen-
ate, said Rachel Wise, the SG 
cabinet press secretary. She said Padron-Rasines found the execu-
tive committee in the rules, but 
not the constitution.“The petition was the easiest 
— and hopefully most successful 
— way to get the issue through,” 
she said.
It will most likely take a few 
months for the Supreme Court to review it, she said. The Supreme 
Court will provide an unbiased 
solution so the issue will be re-solved for future presidents.
“It’ll most likely take a little 
while to get it all worked out,” she said.
Ty Robare, chairman of the 
Comprehensive Statute Reform Ad Hoc Committee, said the revi-
sions to the 500 codes were con-
stitutional. His committee created the reforms.
He said the reforms would have made sure 105 days couldn’t pass between appointments again. He 
said he thought Padron-Rasines 
was against the committee itself.
“I felt like her perception was 
that the committee itself should not exist,” he said.
He said he thinks that Padron-
Rasines didn’t like one of the pro-visions for appointing executive members in the reforms.
“A verdict could be reached 
without the consent of the Stu-dent Body president,” he said.
Wise said Padron-Rasines is 
trying to make SG as transparent 
as possible.
“That’s really one of her big-
gest motivations,” she said.
Student Body president files petition to UF supreme court IT WAS A GLOBAL EVENT.
By Katelyn Vogt
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rebecca Butler was strolling through 
downtown Gainesville when she noticed one 
corner wasn’t bordered by its usual parked cars.
Instead, a park popped up in its place.  
“I was just kind of out and about, you 
know, finding a place to eat my watermelon,” 
the 28-year-old Bistro 1245 server said.  
The UF Student Chapter American Society 
of Landscape Architects transformed three metered parking spaces into a park as part of a global event: PARK(ing) Day.
The parking spots, near Florida Commu-
nity Design Center and across the street from 
The Top, were open to the public, and about 
110 people visited the area Friday and Sat-urday.
Butler said she passes by the corner often 
and noticed the addition of grass and bench-es.
“I stumble across this little, magical, quaint 
environment, you know, where it’s usually just like cold, hard concrete,” she said.
UF landscape architecture junior and UF 
SCASLA social chair Daniel Rodriguez said the park adds an element of beauty to the 
community by showing any outdoor spaces 
have the potential to be something else.
“We’re so accustomed to a parking space 
belonging to a car or the streets belonging to cars,” the 24-year-old said.
UF SCASLA collaborated with local orga-
nizations and businesses, including FLCDC, Students for the New Urbanism at UF, The Repurpose Project and Garden Gate Nursery.  
The organizations and businesses helped ex-
ecute the event and donated all of the event’s materials, like refurbished furniture and $700 worth of plants, Rodriguez said.
“Having the opportunity to do something 
like this, that’s not something that you see every day,” he said. “It opens people’s eyes.”
Forrest Eddleton, executive director of the 
FLCDC, said the event aims to make people 
think what would happen if small spaces 
were used differently.
“The broader goal is just to start this con-
versation about space,” he said.
Butler, who ate her watermelon on a 
wooden bench in the pop-up park, said it gives people a chance to look up from their hectic days.
“It’s nice to kind of take a break from all 
that you know and share some watermelon with a stranger,” she said.Parks pop up in parking spaces, promote green in the city
Harley O’Neill / Alligator
Daniel Rodriguez (left), a UF landscape architecture junior, and Lea Kindt, a UF first-year 
landscape architecture graduate student, both members of UF’s Student Chapter of America’s Society of Landscape Architects, write Twitter hashtags on pavement down-town Saturday for the (PARK)ing Day event. The chapter coordinated with the Florida Community Design Center and Pop GNV to create “pop-up parks” on several corners of Northeast First Avenue and Main Street on Friday and Saturday.
Padron-Rasines
It’s to make SG more transparentTHE CAUSE OF THE FIRE 
IS STILL UNKNOWN AND 
UNDER INVESTIGATION.
Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
Aamir Rahim hadn’t done 
laundry in two and a half weeks.
About 4:30 p.m. Saturday, the 
UF electrical engineering sopho-
more finally put his clothes in the washing machine at UF Keys Res-idential Complex, but just before 
he left, Rahim saw smoke coming 
out from the dryer vents.
He went to the area desk and 
told a worker that the building was on fire.
“I was concerned because I’m 
pretty sure no part of that build-ing should be on fire,” Rahim, 19, said.
While the cause of the fire is 
still unknown, the 10-foot flames destroyed the laundry room and left many residents without Wi-Fi, a laundry room and function-
ing fire alarms. 
Rahim said staff members 
are posted outside each building 
because the fire alarms are not 
working.
“So we have a human fire alarm,” Rahim said, referring to the resident assistants and staff 
members stationed outside each of the 10 Keys buildings.
Residents were all safely evac-
uated, and the fire did not spread to any other part of the complex, 
said University Police spokesman 
Maj. Brad Barber.“It was isolated to the laundry 
room,” Barber said.  
It is still unclear what caused 
the fire or how much damages will cost, he said.
“We all saw the smoke cov-
ering our windows,” said Alexis Vreeland, 20, a Keys resident, who was evacuated to Flavet Field.  
The UF political science and 
geography junior said she real-ized there was no Internet access when she returned to her dorm at 
about 8 p.m. 
She was told by her RA she 
could go to Springs Residential 
Complex for Wi-Fi if she needed to do work.
She said she doesn’t know 
where her packages will be de-livered to or when the Wi-Fi will return.
Rahim will probably do his 
laundry next weekend at a nearby residence hall. 
He said he hopes the laundry 
room doesn’t catch on fire, es-
pecially because he still doesn’t 
know the state of his last load of laundry.
“I’m gonna keep my fingers 
crossed that it’ll be OK,” he said.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015
and then they’ll have to give up a whole paycheck to university fees,” the 25-year-old said. “The university needs to increase funding for all programs.”
Other students are involved in the cam-
paign from UF and Santa Fe College. Leah Robbins, a 22-year-old UF Jewish studies and women’s studies senior with the UF 
Student Radical Alliance, attended the meet-
ing and said the group will host a teach-in at the university to familiarize students with the Living Wage Campaign and the pover-ty-wage situation in Alachua County. The 
teach-in would most likely feature a speaker 
such as board member Payne or Paul Ortiz, a UF professor who is also part of the cam-paign, Robbins said.
“I think it’s kind of a student issue as 
well, and the fight for basic integrity should be on everyone’s radar,” she said. “We need to raise awareness of labor issues and build solidarity around that.”
The ACLC’s next meeting will be on 
Sept. 29. state Rep. Clovis Watson will speak about Medicaid expansion in Florida.WAGE,  from pg1The next meet-
ing will discuss 
MedicaidDanielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Smoke rises from UF Keys Residential Complex after a fire destroyed the laundry room on Saturday. 
Residents were evacuated and no injuries were reported.
Keys fire leaves residents without laundry room, Wi-Fi
students because they don’t want to place any 
more burden on their families, she said.
Ganesh applied for his job in October 2014 
but didn’t get it until January 2015, a typical timeline for an international student.
“If at all there was a way for us to work 
outside campus, it would be a help for us,” he said.
•   •   •
Ganesh said he thinks the $8.25-per-hour 
pay is enough to cover expenses, but he wish-es he could work somewhere related to his field of study to make him more competitive after graduation. He said he chose to come 
to UF because every graduate he knew had a 
good job back home.
Reaching that goal comes at a cost: $47,585 
a year for graduate students and $46,100 a year for undergraduates, according to the UF International Center website.
Students must prove they have that money 
in order for the international center to process the form to get their visas, Anderson said. 
Even though students are able to show proof 
of those funds, it doesn’t mean they actually have them, she said.
“We know, and the government knows, 
that family members pool their funds so that they can show this money,” Anderson said.
She said many students come to UF with 
large loans from their home universities, too. Some countries’ governments supply aid to 
their students, but countries experiencing 
conflict, like Venezuela or Iraq, sometimes cut off aid, she said. Banks in India grant loans to students, but when the value of Indian cur-rency, the rupee, drops, the funds turn out to be insufficient, Anderson said.
“The kids are caught in the middle,” she 
said.•   •   •
UF international student Darshil Shah said 
he considers himself to be one of the lucky ones. Shah, a second-year information sys-tems and operations management graduate student from Mumbai, India, said he got his 
job at the UF Bookstore within a week of ap-
plying. Because international students aren’t eligible for federal aid, employment options on campus are limited, Anderson said. Most on-campus jobs are for students with federal work study, she said. International students are also competing with domestic students.
“If you’re really, really lucky you get the 
job,” Shah, 22, said. “They definitely do not 
prefer international students. It’s actually 
frustrating.”
Shah said one of the biggest difficulties in-
ternational students face is not having a social security number.
Without a social security number, students 
have to pay higher deposits on apartments and can’t get credit cards, Anderson said. Once international students are employed, 
they get a social security number, she said.
The international center gives students 
lists of places that are hiring, Anderson said. 
The Stephen C. O’Connell Center, UF Book-store, Rec Sports and Gator Dining hire the most international students.
“[Anderson] has been really helpful and 
really supportive of not only Indians, but of every international community here,” Shah 
said.
•   •   •
Anderson said she doesn’t see restrictions 
on employment changing any time soon. The 
difference between a work visa and a student visa will remain distinct, she said.
There are opportunities for students to find 
employment after graduation through pro-grams such as Optional Practical Training, a program that provides a year of employment, and the STEM extension, which gives science, technology, engineering and math students a 17-month employment period, she said.
The STEM extension may be eliminat-
ed, Anderson said, due to a recent lawsuit from the Washington Alliance of Technol-ogy Workers, an organization that represents STEM workers. They claimed the STEM ex-tension was taking away jobs from U.S. citi-zens, she said. The court found U.S. Citizen 
and Immigration Services had skipped a step 
when creating the STEM extension, and a February deadline has been issued to file the regulation properly.
“If they remove the STEM extension, I 
have a feeling that that will impact enroll-ments probably across the U.S. of internation-al students,” Anderson said.
•   •   •
Shah said there are more difficulties be-
sides financial burden.
“I have experienced racism on the job,” he 
said.
He said while he was answering phones, 
he mistakenly ignored a customer. A co-worker yelled at him in front of everyone in the store.
He said he’s never seen that happen to 
American employees.
“I have had to deal with it in a very polite 
manner,” he said. “I have told a few people, ‘My accent is different. I do not speak the way you speak, but I do speak English, so I don’t 
think it’s nice of you to treat me that way.’”
Other difficulties include traveling to 
campus and buying food, Shah said. Most 
students live far from campus and can’t af-ford cars, and food is more expensive than in India. He said overall he likes the U.S. and wants to stay here.
“We do miss our family,” he said. “We do 
miss our country. We do miss our friends, but 
you just have to look at two different parts 
of life. Do you want a good lifestyle, or do you want to stay with friends and family? You have to choose between that.”INTERNATIONAL,  from pg1International students face other difficulties
“I think it’s kind of a student issue as 
well, and the fight for basic integrity 
should be on everyone’s radar.”
Leah Robbins
UF seniorMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
CAMPUS
By Janiece Sebris
Alligator Contributing Writer
When UF biochemistry senior Jo-
hanna Lee was looking at colleges, 
she found UF more affordable than other Florida schools. The 21-year-old said she needed an education but 
didn’t want to take out loans.
UF ranked first in the state and 
sixth in the nation as doing the most 
for low-income students like Lee, ac-cording to The New York Times.
UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
said UF ranked high because of its low tuition and high number of Pell grants and scholarships. He said he 
believes the university’s outstanding 
academics coupled with its econom-ic value make UF a good school.
UF’s ranking can also be attribut-
ed to the Florida Opportunity Schol-ars Program, which was initiated by former UF President Bernie Machen, he said.  In the 2013-2014 academ-ic year, this scholarship disbursed about $10.2 million, according to the Student Financial Affairs’ fact book.
With the ranking, prospective UF 
students who once considered the school unattainable will know it’s affordable, said Tammy Aagard, the 
UF associate vice president of enroll-
ment management.
“Money goes further at UF,” she 
said.
Current students might view this 
recognition as an opportunity for fu-ture financial aid, Aagard said.
Director of UF office for Student 
Financial Affairs Richard Wilder said 
UF’s financial advising is among the 
best in the country, and the advisers want students to succeed.  
“Our goal is to enroll, educate 
and graduate them,” he said.
Lee said she likes seeing UF suc-
ceed.
“I’m always proud when UF is at 
the top of something,” she said.For low-income UF 
students, money goes farHE WAS CHARGED FOR 
A FAKE ID IN 2013.  
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
Gainesville Police filed charges 
against a current Fall Student Gov-
ernment candidate in 2013 for pos-session of a fake ID, but the candi-date, Octavious Buiey, denies the 
charges ever existed.
Shortly after midnight on Nov. 
2, 2013, police pulled over Buiey, 
18 at the time, for reportedly speed-ing in the 4500 block of Northwest 13th Street. When Buiey showed the officer his license, the officer saw the back of a second, upside-down license in the wallet, accord-
ing to a police report.
The license later proved to be 
counterfeit, with a date of birth of 
July 31, 1991, according to the re-port. Buiey was born in 1995.
Buiey told police he got the ID 
from a friend to get into 101 Cantina for his birthday. Buiey admitted the license was counterfeit but denied using it to buy alcohol, according to the report.
Buiey, an Impact candidate for 
District C, said he didn’t know the charges existed.
“I have no idea as to what is 
going on,” he said Wednesday. “I would like to investigate this.”
However, Buiey would have 
had to know of the charges, said Gainesville Police Detective Matt 
Goeckel, a GPD spokesman.
He said GPD sent the case to 
the state attorney’s office. Buiey re-
ceived deferred prosecution for the charge, a ruling where the charges are dropped if a defendant meets 
terms agreed upon by both the de-
fendant and the state attorney’s of-fice.
“He signed the paperwork agree-
ing to the deferred prosecution,” Goeckel said Thursday.
Buiey signed an agreement on Dec. 6, 2013, promising to pay $100 for the cost of prosecution and ei-
ther donate $100 to the Black on 
Black Crime Task Force or perform 10 hours of community service, ac-cording to the deferred prosecution agreement.
Darry Lloyd, a spokesman for 
the state attorney, also said Buiey would have to know of the charges because he completed the deferred 
prosecution agreement.
“No, they completed it,” he said 
Thursday. “That’s why it’s closed.”
Buiey, now 20, had declined 
to comment further until speaking 
with a lawyer, and has yet to return requests for comment.
Chris Boyett, Impact’s president, 
said Buiey was cleared by the su-
pervisor of elections, Sam Book, to 
run for Fall elections.
“If they don’t believe it’s a prob-
lem, then I don’t believe it’s a prob-lem,” Boyett said.
As of press time, Buiey is still a 
candidate for Impact. 
Additions or replacements to the 
slate cannot be made, Book wrote 
in an email.Impact candidate denies charges
“I have no idea as to what 
is going on. I would like to 
investigate this.”
Octavious Buiey
District C Impact candidateThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialColumn
Mastering your 
domain and disipline 
in the 21st century
In “The Contest,” one of the most famous episodes of “Sein-
feld,” the foursome of Jerry, George, Elaine and Kramer wager a contest among one another to see who can re-frain from masturbating the longest. The contest hinges on the respective honesty and discipline of each contestant; 
naturally Kramer is the first to go, having given into tempta-tion after seeing his attractive neighbor (across the street) strut across her apartment naked.
When Kramer inquires if Jerry has lost yet, he frames the 
question by asking if Jerry was still the “master of your do-main.” The term would go on to be adopted by the popular lexicon as an expression, which refers to one’s ability to con-trol their urges; after all, is there a single greater example of discipline than refraining from an activity that only you would 
know you had done?
Although it is never made clear who won the contest within 
the context of the episode, each entrant gradually relents when 
confronted with titillating scenarios. When thinking about this episode, it’s critical to keep a few things in mind, one of them being that this contest only lasts for a few days. Secondly, when this episode aired in 1992, there was no such thing as an iPhone and it could take up to five minutes for your AOL to even start up. The contest began because George glimpsed 
a lone copy of Glamour on his mother’s table and couldn’t 
help himself; it’s difficult to imagine any of those characters participating honestly had they been able to access porn from their cellphones.
We’re talking about “The Contest” because it speaks to the 
difficulty of self-discipline and denying instant gratification. As college students in the 21st century, this is a particularly per-tinent issue. We all have long-term projects to undertake and several chapters to read in our textbooks. However, we also 
have Facebook feeds to check as well as instantaneous access 
to more hours of Netflix than what is humanly reasonable. Why do work which’ll pay off in a few weeks when we could be quoting “Archer” after 22 minutes?
No one at the Alligator is a neuroscience major, but we 
know enough about the brain to understand it is wired to re-spond favorably to good feelings and instant gratification.  In 2015, it is easier than ever to do anything BUT academic pur-suits: Xbox Live is only the press of a home button away, and 
we can tell ourselves all we want that John Oliver’s weekly 
monologues are a fulfilling source of education on pressing social issues. If you were to walk through any one of our li-braries, we can guarantee you would glimpse several students checking the number of likes on their profile picture rather than reading chapters four through six of whatever textbook was assigned that week. As convenient as it is for cantanker-ous old people to deride us for multitasking, it kind of, sort of, isn’t our fault; our brains have been conditioned to pursue 
instant satisfaction at any given moment.
Becoming the “master of your domain” has always been 
an arduous task, but we’d venture to say it is harder for us 
than it ever was for our parents. We’re not claiming we have the answers (although consciously choosing to put your damn phone down would probably help), but it is vital, as men and women desensitized to the sheer wonders of technology, we remain committed to becoming disciplined individuals who can accomplish one task at a time WITHOUT having to resort 
to Google for help.GOP needs to brush up on its gender politics 
Toward the end of the recent Republican 
debate, candidates were asked which woman they would put on the $10 bill. 
While moderator Jake Tapper called it a 
lighthearted question, it actually gave a 
lot of insight into the problems with the Repub-lican candidates.
Carly Fiorina said a woman should not be 
put on a $10 or $20 bill because to do so would be rewriting history.  Except it wouldn’t be. Currently, our printed currency is not representative of history. Since its first incarnation as the 13 colonies, 
the U.S. has always had icons that weren’t solely the 
wealthy, white men portrayed on our print currency to-day. As the years go on, the history of the U.S. becomes longer, and thus, there are greater figures to highlight on 
currency. Not only that, but Fiorina’s statement basically 
insinuates there were no great women around in the ear-ly years of the U.S., which is simply not true.
This is in line with her previous attempts to espouse 
the same anti-women rhetoric that seems to pervade 
the GOP from a woman’s perspective. Fiorina, in her 
attempts to be the “reasonable woman” who is GOP-friendly, is doing a disservice to advocacy for women’s rights. When she first announced she was running for 
president, part of her platform was if she were to win the 
nomination, she would take the “woman card” off the table. The people of the U.S. need a president who fully grasps gender politics rather than one who dismisses them entirely.
While Fiorina may be able to attract more women 
voters for Republicans, she demonstrates the same tone-deafness as the rest of them when it comes to women’s issues. She spits out internalized misogyny in the hopes 
women will say “Wow, now that a woman says it, it re-ally makes sense.” Giving Fiorina the role of 
vice president or a crucial secretary position does not absolve the Republican Party of its 
deliberate ignorance on women’s issues.
Ted Cruz replied to the question by stating 
Rosa Parks should be on the $20 bill, because 
Alexander Hamilton is already on the $10 bill, 
which he rightfully earned by being a Found-
ing Father. But the fact that he was a Founding Father shouldn’t be the only reason he’s on the 
$10 bill. Although I can confidently say that I probably would not get along with any of the Founding Fathers, 
Hamilton at least personifies the American dream of so-
cial mobility even in the early years of U.S. history.
And then of course, there were the nominees who 
wanted their wives or daughters to be on the $10 bill. 
While sweet, it comes off as a little condescending. As 
in, “The best thing a woman can ever do is be married/related to me.” Other candidates proved their ignorance of American history by picking a foreigner, as if it is hard to come up with a list of brilliant American women.
Putting one woman on the currency may not seem 
like a big deal, but it paves the way for a more visible demonstration of women’s accomplishments in history. While there is not a lot of time to come up with answers 
during a debate, the lack of relevant answers on the part 
of GOP candidates speaks volumes as to where they stand on issues related to gender equality in the U.S. As the GOP-majority House passed a bill this past weekend to defund Planned Parenthood, it is not unreasonable to 
be concerned with how the Republican slate of candi-
dates views the legitimacy of a woman on our nation’s currency.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Two weeks ago, the downtown bar, 
The Midnight, hosted a social gather-ing for the Gainesville Bernie Sanders’ 
faithful. Being the political adventurer 
I am, and embracing my status as the 
sole conservative columnist for the Alligator, I felt compelled to attend. On that Wednes-
day night, a handful of Bernie Sanders volun-
teers were ready and willing to entertain any question a politico could ask. I, of course, took them up on it.
The principle reason I went to the Ber-
nie Sanders social was to see if the “Feel the Bern” hype was real and to see if the Sanders crowd knew what they were talking about. Despite all of my preconceived notions about 
the kind of people who would support Bernie 
Sanders — the aged hippie, the disgruntled college student, the people who think com-munism is great in theory and the issues they would champion, which is pretty much any 
issue that has the word “free” before it —  I 
was impressed with what I saw and the peo-ple I talked to.
Each Sanders supporter I talked to genu-
inely felt that the American political system has betrayed and abandoned them. They were disheartened and dis-enfranchised, but not disengaged 
with the current state of politics. 
Instead of throwing their collective hands in the air and accepting the inevitability of a Clinton corona-
tion, they threw their weight and 
hopes of a brighter future behind an elderly senator from Vermont: A man they feel has more in common with the average Joe than any other presidential 
candidate.
One thing that impressed me was the 
hesitant rationality of each Bernie supporter; 
a phrase I thought I would never utter. The 
supporters know how difﬁ  cult it is to change 
the political system. They know how hard it will be to defeat the Hillary Clinton jugger-naut. They know that even if Bernie is elect-ed president, things might not change. Each 
supporter knows this and yet still supports 
Mr. Sanders. They believe voters should not solely vote for Sanders. Instead, they should vote with him. One volunteer, although she 
thankfully cautioned against using the words “socialist” and “revolution” in the 
same sentence, believes a change in the political status quo must 
occur before anything can really 
happen. These volunteers believe Sanders can lead the movement.    
The Sanders supporters were 
also more thoughtful than I antici-pated. When pressed about how free education and free health care 
would be paid for, they retorted the funds that are currently devoted to a hawkish for-
eign policy, drug wars and the prison sys-
tem should be redirected toward health care and education. While I have extreme doubts about the long-term viability of implementing 
this proposal and the plan itself, the proposed 
plan surprised me in its thoughtfulness.
The volunteers spoke passionately from a 
place of hope and deep frustration. Although disappointed with the latter part of the Obama 
presidency and sickened at the thought of a 
Clinton administration, they believed things could get better. Whether the Sanders sup-porters will admit this or not, they are part of 
a larger movement in the country that is sick and tired of politics as usual. Even though 
they would balk at this characterization, the Sanders crowd has more in common with 
Trump supporters and the Tea Party than 
they would like to think. In the right-wing events I have attended, disenfranchised con-servatives spoke with the same deep-seated 
frustration and hopeful optimism that the 
Sanders volunteers spoke with. Both crowds — not surprisingly — believe in similar prin-ciples, mainly taking down the establish-ment, reforming the government and putting 
more power in the hands of the people — a 
“return to democracy,” as one Sanders sup-porter told me. The similarities of these two groups left an impression on me. In another 
time, space or dimension, I can honestly see 
the Sanders supporters participating in a Tea Party rally.    
Although I will not drink the Sanders 
Kool-Aid nor condone a number of his policy 
proposals, I have to say the Sanders social 
I attended changed my perception of the movement for the better.     
Michael Beato is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Mondays.
Despite preconceptions, Sanders’ supporters are a thoughtful bunchColumn
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015
They’re loud, they’re proud, and despite their height, the professional wres-
tlers of Micro Championship Wrestling can take you down. The group put on a show of violence and variety Friday night at the High Dive.ABOVE LEFT:
Chatting and enjoying drinks, a 
crowd gathers Friday night at the High Dive for “The Greatest Little Show on Earth, ” Micro Championship Wrestling.
ABOVE RIGHT:
Eric “Huggy Cub” Hightower hypes the crowd at High Dive. The wres-tlers entered the ring to a cacophony of shouts from the audience.
MIDDLE LEFT:
From left: Twenty-nine-year-old sci-entist Ryan Poulsen, 25-year-old se-curity manager Charles Hogan and 25-year-old food distribution worker Matt Williams watch DJ Shermy D 
dance and rap during the opening for 
Micro Championship Wrestling at the High Dive. He was supported by performers in neon pink wigs.
MIDDLE RIGHT:
Kara Greenﬁ  eld, a 22-year-old UF health science senior, dances with Shermy D in the midget regulation ring.  “I can’t say I’ve been to a midget wrestling match before, ” Greenﬁ  eld 
said.
RIGHT:
“Lt. Dan” ﬁ  ghts with “The Tiny T error, ” 
Carlton Barber, at High Dive on Fri-day night. Announcer Johnny G said Barber is the world’s smallest profes-sional wrestler at 38 inches tall.Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator StaffNicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffNicole Gomez / Alligator StaffMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
Ashley K. Jolicoeur / Alligator
MOBILE MEALS
Kiara Cowart (left), a 21-year-old criminology and law senior, eats a classic grilled cheese and french fries from Soup 
to Nuts while hanging out with her friends Mos Sopitskulmas and Kanoknun Chobthamasakul, both 21-year-old ac-counting seniors, during the Food Truck Rally at High Dive Saturday. Soulfest Director Camila Camargo said the rally raised $784.16 for the UF Field and Fork Food Pantry.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
UF’s Mobile Outreach Clinic will be 
visiting Cone Park Branch Library on a 
different day.
The clinic, which is in a bus, provides 
free medical care to underserved popula-
tions of Gainesville and will only be at 
Cone Park on Mondays instead of Thurs-days, starting today.
The 5-year-old program partners with 
Alachua County libraries to serve resi-dents.
“On Thursdays, we were getting a low 
turnout compared to other days,” said Yunsai Ng, a volunteer coordinator for the 
Mobile Outreach Clinic.Cone Park does their food distribution 
on Thursdays, the UF microbiology and 
cell science junior said.
“I think what was happening on 
Thursday was patients were choosing food over us,” the 20-year-old said.
Most patients come in for treatment of 
chronic conditions, such as diabetes and hypertension, Ng said.
The Mobile Outreach Clinic offers 
services at several libraries throughout Gainesville.
Cone Park would have about five to 10 
patients when the Clinic was there, while other libraries averaged 12, she said.
The Clinic first partnered with Alachua 
County libraries in July 2011, with the first location at the Alachua County Library Headquarters, located at 401 E. University Ave., said Nickie Kortus, marketing and public relations manager for the Alachua County Library District. The clinic is now available at four libraries: Cone Park, Li-
brary Headquarters, Tower Road Branch 
Library and The Library Partnership.
“The libraries are one of our greatest 
partners,” Ng said.UF’s mobile clinic to serve different day CAMPUS
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
Women in colorful saris danced across a stage in 
the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, smiling flirtatiously and moving their bodies to the beat of Indian music.
UF finance junior Farah Naz said she liked the 
dances at Praharsha, UF’s 10th annual Indian festival 
of hope and happiness held Saturday night.
“They have different meanings for different danc-
es, different meanings for different clothes,” the 
19-year-old said.
About 1,000 guests watched students dance and 
sing in celebration of their culture.  Gators for Asha hosted the event and encouraged attendees to donate money to fund educating underprivileged children in India, said Revathi Kadari, the shramdaan coordina-
tor of the event.
With upbeat Bollywood dances, classical Indian 
music, free henna tattoos and traditional cuisine, 
Kadari, 25, said the event gave participants a taste 
of India.
“From the moment you enter, you get a full idea of 
what Indian culture is like,” the UF computer science 
graduate student said.  
Additionally, Gators for Asha showcased a blend 
of Asian and American culture, and students clapped to Ed Sheeran’s “Thinking Out Loud” and Coldplay’s “Nobody Said It Was Easy.”  No Southern Accent, a UF a capella group, also attended, vocalizing “Jer-
emiah Was a Bullfrog.”
“It’s completely about music,” Kadari said.
After the performances ended, local Indian res-
taurant Andaz served basmati rice and various ma-salas, which are dishes with a lot of spices and herbs, Kadari said.
Naz said she liked that the food was catered to 
vegetarians, but she went to experience the culture.
“We have events to give a full picture of what In-
dian culture is like,” Kadari said.
Alligator staff writer Ansley Pentz contributed to 
this report.UF club celebrates 
Indian culture with dance, music
“From the moment you enter, you get a full idea 
of what Indian culture is like.”
Revathi Kadari
UF computer science graduate studentUF’s Mobile Outreach Clinic 
provides free-of-charge medical services 
for underprivileged locals. 
These include:
• Health screenings and education• Family medical services• Family planning• Resources and referralMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!
Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    9-29-15-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE MID DECEMBER!2BR/2BA at The Laurels Apt, $940/mo through July 2016, 1 mo free! Will pay $50 app fee! Full size W/D in unit. Call Yvonne @ 407-489-9323    9-25-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!
1 large BR with private bath in large quiet 
home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to 
bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/
mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   
10-12-15-20-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
2014 "GENUINE SCOOTERS",125 CC, "BUDDY 125", NEW COST $2,750, ONLY 900 MILES, ASKING $1,750.CALL 352-401-0077            9-21-15-14-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished7 Computers 2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if intwverested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted
ACROSS
1 2003
documentary set
in the Philippines
7 Emulates
Cassandra
15 Studio technicians16 ’70s “SNL”
parody
17 In-demand
groups
18 Late order?
19 Trading ctrs.
20 Reserved
22 Tenor Carreras
23 Name meaning
“young warrior” in
Old Norse
25 Finished26 Money maker27 Term used by
President XiJinping inpromoting long-range goals forhis people
30 Coll. supervisors31 Misses at the
hoedown
32 Saws36 Dossier
shorthand
37 Bass, e.g.38 Magic, on
scoreboards
39 Meal opener40 Plagues42 Artist who wrote
“Diary of aGenius”
43 “__ seen worse”44 1994 Ben Stiller
comedy
47 Corrosive fluids49 Kyrgyzstan
province
50 Span. titles
51 Pianist
Templeton
52 Mucho54 Toronado, for
one
56 Orange County
seat
58 Let slide60 Adds to the
database,redundantly
61 Key of
Beethoven’sNinth
62 Nerve condition?
63 TakeDOWN
1 Saudi Arabia’s
Abdul Rahman
Al-Sudais, for
one
2 Parlor cooler
3 Permits to leave4 Taper off5 2000 Richard
Gere role
6 Little help?7 “Curious
George” mediabrand
8 Like “American
Hustle”
9 “Proof of
Heaven” authorAlexander
10 Fist bump11 Battle site
commemoratedon a 3-centstamp
12 Vixia camcorder
maker
13 Plot thickener14 Fill up21 “Skyfall” singer24 Cancels out
26 Improvisational
game
27 __ cake
28 Hot stuff29 Like some
retirements
33 Solo
34 Show
unwelcomeinterest
35 Notre Dame figs.38 Courtroom
procedures
41 Put up42 Cold45 Canadian dollar
coin46 Having a 13-
Down
47 Peruvian prairie
48 Tovah 
Feldshuh
Broadway role
51 “Wait __!”52 Use a beam on53 Radamès’ love55 Rockefeller
Center muralist
57 “Walk me!”59 Safari maker
By C.C. Burnikel©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/19/1509/19/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, September 19, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
We are a local Christian Preschool hiring 
a young two/older three year old afternoon assistant. Must have experience working with children. 45 hour DCF training is not re-quired, but preferred. This is a PART TIME position, only 20 hours/week- you must be able to work Monday through Friday 1:30-5:30. Please reply by calling Angie or Brittani between 10:00am and 3:00pm at 352-373-5856   10-1-15-10-14
3 NATIVES - NEW JUICE BARNOW HIRING
Please send resume to:
GAINESVILLE3NATIVES@AOL.COM   9-21-15-2-14
CNAs, PCAs, HHAs: Part time caregiver for SCI Quad. Must be Mature & Reliable, back-grounds checked. Reply to anything@gator.net or 352-281-9467.    9-21-15-2-14PETITION CIRCULATORS NEEDEDUp to $20-30 per hour or moreNo experience necessary Start today(386) 233-9939    10-8-15-14-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Value Cleaning Starting @ $59
Eco-Friendly Product OptionWell established company in Gainesville. Call or text 352-214-9597    9-22-15-5-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 23 Rides 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at@alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFlorida redshirt senior Eddie Garcia won his ﬁ  rst collegiate cross country title on Saturday at UF's lone home meet, the Mountain Dew Invitational. Read the story on pg. 16. MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
UF women's golf set for Mercedes-Benz Collegiate
Florida's women's golf team will begin play at the Mercedes-Benz Collegiate 
Championship today at the Cherokee Country Club in Knoxville, T ennessee. Read the preview online at www.alligator.org/sports.By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
LEXINGTON, Ky. — Kelvin Tay-
lor had his chance to put last week’s 
sideline berating by head coach Jim McElwain during Florida’s 31-24 win over East Carolina behind him on 
Saturday against Kentucky.
The talk during the week focused 
on how Taylor would respond to be-
ing publicly humiliated by his head coach in front of his entire team af-ter his throat-slash gesture and after being demoted to third on the depth chart behind two freshmen — Jor-dan Cronkrite and Jordan Scarlett.
Taylor responded the best way 
he could: He let the situation go and had a clear mindset heading into the game.
“I just focused on my team and 
kept working hard in practice,” Tay-lor said. 
“Really I forgot all about that so, 
nothing at all. Same preparation for 
me, I go out there and encourage my 
teammates and we just got a win to-night.”
Being demoted to third-string was 
probably more motivation for Taylor in the week of practice leading up to Kentucky than a punishment, be-cause the junior running back didn’t spend too much time on the bench. 
He came into the game on just 
the third play after Cronkrite got the start. And it didn’t take long for the Belle Glade native to make an impact for the Gators.
Taylor was a key component on 
the Gators’ second drive — one that started on the Wildcats’ 19-yard line after a Vernon Hargreaves III inter-ception — as he got the bulk of the workload with four consecutive car-ries for 18 yards. He took UF down to the 1-yard 
line and set up quarterback Will Gri-er’s one yard touchdown run where he outran two Kentucky players and dove into the end zone to give Flori-da an early 7-0 lead.
Taylor would go on to have the 
eventual game-winning touchdown as his three-yard plunge into the end 
zone just before the half would be 
the difference as the Gators escaped Lexington with a 14-9 win. While Taylor didn’t have the gaudiest sta-tistics in the game — 16 carries for 45 yards — he was able to ﬁ  nally put the McElwain tirade in the past.
Florida secondary at full-
strength: For the ﬁ  rst time this 
season, UF was able to have its full complement of players in the secondary. Safety Keanu Neal played for the ﬁ  rst time this season after 
missing the ﬁ  rst two games with a 
hamstring injury, and the Bushnell native responded with nine tackles, one being a sack.  
Neal teamed up with Marcus 
Maye who returned last week after being suspended and Hargreaves re-turned after being held out against ECU.  
“I deﬁ  nitely feel like we’re our 
complete, knee-deep-in defense that we always preach,” defensive line-man Bryan Cox Jr. said. “We’ve got two starters back in the secondary and also a starter back on the d-line. So it helped.”
Gators rack up penalties:  
After being called for 12 penalties for 105 yards against East Carolina, Florida was better against Kentucky in terms of infractions — sort of. 
The Gators were penalized 10 times 
for 61 yards and have racked up 22 penalties in the last two games after having just one in their season-opener. However, McElwain said UF was more disciplined against Kentucky than the previous week.Gators running back responds following sideline lashing
JUST SOME HACK
Lexington, Ky.
Jim McElwain made the 
right decision by playing quarterback Will Grier for the entire game against Kentucky.
And despite his perfor-
mance, the coach shouldn’t 
second-guess himself.
Grier wasn’t great on Satur-
day night by any means. 
The redshirt freshman showed his age 
multiple times, particularly in the second half when he went 5-of-10 for just 31 yards and an interception that was as telegraphed as Morse code.
But his ﬁ  rst half is why Grier needs to 
keep his spot, take his lumps and learn from the punches without the threat of be-ing pulled at any moment.
After his ﬁ  rst drive, the 20-year-old had 
command of the offense through the ﬁ  rst 30 minutes of the contest, lead-ing the team down the ﬁ  eld for 
the only two touchdown drives 
by either team in the entire game.
Sometimes he shone in the 
successful moments, like Flori-
da’s touchdown drive right be-
fore the end of the half — the second-consecutive week Grier 
has led a touchdown drive as the clock 
bled out in the second quarter.
Other times he shone in the mayhem, 
like when he scrambled for his life after 
Florida’s porous offensive line missed as-signments and allowed rushers to ﬂ  y in un-
abated to the pocket.
In either instance, his potential was on 
display.
That potential must be allowed to blos-
som, though, and that won’t happen any-
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15Will Grier should start rest of seasonEmily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF running back Kelvin T aylor rushes during Florida's 14-9 win against Kentucky on Saturday at 
Commonwealth Stadium in Lexington, Kentucky. 
UF WON THREE STRAIGHT SETS 
AFTER DROPPING THE FIRST. 
By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@brianlee_17
Florida was aware Sunday’s game 
against Florida State was more meaning-
ful than most, and it wasn’t hard to tell. 
After dropping the ﬁ  rst set on its home 
court, No. 5 UF rallied to defeat No. 18 FSU 3-1 (22-25, 25-18, 25-21, 25-20) in the O’Connell Center. 
A ferocious kill by senior middle block-
er Simone Antwi got the match under-way, much to the delight of the energized crowd of 3,612. Fueled by the anticipation of a rivalry game, the Gators (8-1) rock-
eted out of the gates to build a 13-6 lead in the ﬁ  rst set and looked as if they might 
cruise to victory.  
But the Seminoles (7-4) had other 
plans. 
A 19-9 run by FSU to close out the set 
put Florida in an early, unexpected deﬁ  cit.
With their backs against the wall, the 
Gators didn’t panic. 
“I felt like as a team we did a good job 
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15Florida volleyball rallies 
to defeat Florida State Taylor had UF's second touchdown
“I felt like as a team we did a good 
job of calming each other down and 
especially picking each other up when 
something didn’t go our way, so it was 
really exciting to see us come together 
in that aspect.” 
Carli Snyder
UF outside hitter
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack2414   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015
“We take pride in stuff like that,” 
defensive lineman Bryan Cox Jr. 
said. “When we’re able to put the ball down and the game’s on us, we like that kind of pressure.”
Redshirt freshman quarter-
back Will Grier, starting his second straight contest and first away from the comfort of Ben Hill Griffin Stadi-um, played the entirety of the game.
He showed flashes of brilliance 
in front of an announced crowd of 63,040, fitting passes in tight spots and making plays with his feet when the pocket broke down.
“You didn’t feel like he was a 
freshman,” sixth-year senior tight end Jake McGee said after the game. “Whether he scored a ton of points or not tonight, his first start, SEC opener … I was really impressed with what he brought.”
But with the breathtaking com-
pletions and eye-opening runs, 
Grier had questionable plays creep 
up from around the corner, leaving more to be desired.
After leading two touchdown 
drives in the first half — highlighted by a 10-play, 57-yard drive to take a 14-3 lead into intermission — he failed to produce in the second half, with the Gators’ five drives in the fi-
nal 30 minutes ending in an intercep-
tion and four punts.
On those five drives, Florida post-
ed just 71 yards of offense.
He underthrew a fade route to 
McGee in the corner of the end zone in the third quarter, an interception that resulted in three points for Ken-tucky instead of six for the Gators.
A pair of darts missed the mark as 
well, some underthrown, some ques-tionably directed into traffic.
For the game, Grier finished with 
just 125 passing yards on 13-for-22 passing with an interception and no passing touchdowns.
“He’s got a lot of growing up to 
do,” McElwain said of Grier, who 
also had a team-high 61 rushing 
yards and a first-quarter touchdown run on a dozen carries.
McElwain was hesitant following 
the game to name Grier the starter, saying sophomore Treon Harris — who spent Saturday watching from the sidelines — will still have reps during practice.
Another offensive performance 
like Florida’s second half won’t cut it if Grier is to remain the starting quar-terback.
“We’ll learn from it,” McElwain 
said. “That’s why we play the game.”
And on Saturday, Florida played 
the game — and won it — the way McElwain wanted them to. 
But with the win logged and les-
sons to be learned, McElwain said there’s no time to celebrate.
The Gators could easily get caught 
up in the moment, relishing in a 29-year win streak that started two years after McElwain began his coaching career as a graduate assistant at East-ern Washington.
Instead, the Wildcats are already 
out of their minds. Like clockwork, a new week begins, a week that will see the Gators face a Tennessee team that — like Florida — is itching to re-turn to college football prominence.
“You enjoy this,” McGee said of 
the win, “but it’s just the first step.”FOOTBALL,  from pg1Grier plays entire game; McElwain still not naming a starter
ABOVE:
UF quarterback Will Grier dives into the endzone for a touchdown. Grier, a redshirt freshman starting the first road game of his college career, played the entire game, passing for 125 yards and rushing for a team-best 61 yards on 12 carries.
TOP RIGHT:
Freshman offensive lineman Fred Johnson (74) shouts in excitement as the Gators run onto the field at Commonwealth Stadium. Johnson was one of three freshman offensive linemen to contribute for the Gators against the Wildcats.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
UF wide receiver Demarcus Robinson (11) jumps in order to avoid a tackle from Kentucky defensive back Chris Westry (21). The junior finished the game with three catches for 16 yards. Florida’s offense as a whole ended the game with 245 yards.Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Emily Cochrane / Alligator StaffEmily Cochrane / Alligator Staffwhere near the same rate if he’s splitting 
time with sophomore Treon Harris.
Quarterback is a rhythmic position, and 
it takes time to get comfortable in a game. When you switch guys in and out, it kills any flow they might have in the game.
And if you bench a player for one or two 
bad throws, they’ll be afraid to make any mistakes — a mental situation that often leads to ultra-conservative play or more mistakes.
But McElwain handled the situation well. 
Even when Grier was struggling in the 
second half, McElwain stuck with his young 
quarterback, and he should continue to do so the rest of this season.
 He gives the Gators their best chance 
to win. 
Don’t get me wrong; Harris could be a 
successful starter for Florida if he were giv-en the opportunity and the time. 
But he can’t match the height of Grier’s 
ceiling, a player who has all the physical tools and has shown flashes in the mental part of the game despite minimal experi-
ence.
The main argument for Harris has been his ability to run, whether it be by design 
or when he needs to escape a collapsing 
pocket. 
But Grier showed just as much mobility Saturday night against Kentucky, leading 
the team with 61 yards on 12 carries, none 
of which were designed runs.
Grier’s ability was on full display in the first quarter when he took a fourth down 
bootleg, rolled out and saw his receivers 
blanketed in coverage. 
So, he decided to take care of the mat-
ter himself, outrunning two defenders as he 
dove for the corner of the end zone to score 
the game’s first points.
The UF quarterback made similar types 
of explosive rushing plays all night, and 
even when he started to feel the pain from the amount of hits he had taken, Grier’s ef-
fort inspired his teammates. 
“When you see your quarterback laying 
out for stuff like that, putting his body on 
the line, it really gives you a little spark that 
you might not see is there,” redshirt senior 
tight end Jake McGee said. 
“You got the guy who’s leading the of-
fense selling out, fighting off tackles, getting hit and you could tell he was hurting, it’s 
something that gives you that extra motiva-
tion to keep going.”
If Grier remains the starter, he won’t be 
perfect. He’s still a redshirt freshman, and 
he’ll act like it on many occasions.
But if McElwain wants the program to 
take the next step somewhere down the 
road, he will need Grier to develop into a top-notch quarterback. And that starts by 
letting him play.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
FOUR FLORIDA PLA YERS SCORED IN THE 6-1 
WIN OVER THE PANTHERS. 
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
Florida wanted to come out with a sense of urgency, but 
coach Becky Burleigh likely didn’t envision a season-high scor-
ing performance. 
The No. 12 Florida soccer team downed Florida Interna-
tional 6-1 on Sunday afternoon in Miami as the Gators finished 
non-conference play with a road victory. 
Burleigh talked before the match about how she wanted the 
team to play with some urgency.
“We asked the leadership group to try and talk to the team 
and see if we could get a different response and kind of a quick 
start,” Burleigh said. “I think they did a good job in the locker room of expressing what that would look like and obviously that took place on the field.”
The players seemed to take the pregame talk to heart as the 
game’s opening goal came during the ninth minute when junior forward Brooke Sharp put the ball into the back of the net off a pass from junior forward Savannah Jordan.
Jordan followed her assist with a goal of her own in the 30th 
minute as she beat the Panthers' goalkeeper in a one-on-one situation.
The goal was Jordan’s 50th career goal as a Gator, making 
her the second fastest player in program history to accomplish that milestone.
As the action resumed, the Gators (7-2-0)  threatened to 
score again on a long-distance shot from junior midfielder Meg-gie Dougherty Howard. The shot hit the top crossbar and de-
flected down into the box.The deflection was met by freshman midfielder Sarah Troc-
coli who put the rebound in the back of the net in the 34th minute.
FIU (4-5-0) wouldn’t go quietly though, scoring a goal of 
its own in the 42nd minute to make the score 3-1 heading into 
halftime.
Following the start of the second half, the Gators got into an 
early passing rhythm. That rhythm led to two goals in the 54th and 57th minutes.
The first of the three goals the Gators would score in the sec-
ond half was scored by Sharp for her second goal of the game.
It was Sharp’s sixth goal of the season and her second multi-
goal game of her career. 
The Ponte Vedra native has scored all six of her goals this 
season in UF’s last five matches.
The second goal of the half came off a corner kick sent into 
the box by senior defender Christen Westphal that was met by a header from Liz Slattery for the Gators’ fifth goal.
The Gators struck again in the 71st minute when Jordan 
scored her second goal of the game and 10th of the season on a cross from senior defender Lauren Smith.
Burleigh said the passing ability of Jordan in the attacking 
third gives the Gators more opportunities to score.
“Well I think that’s always going to make her more danger-
ous,” Burleigh said. 
“When they think she’s going to take a shot and she can 
dish it to someone who’s open because she’s garnering a lot of attention, that’s a great alternative.”
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF junior Brooke Sharp dribbles the ball during 
Florida's 2-1 loss to T exas A&M on Sept. 10. 
COLUMN,  from pg13of calming each other down and 
especially picking each other up 
when something didn’t go our way, so it was really exciting to see us come together in that as-
pect,” said sophomore outside 
hitter Carli Snyder, who finished the game with 11 kills and 12 digs in her first game back since suf-fering an ankle injury.
The second set began much 
like the first, with the Gators building a 13-6 lead. 
This time, though, they never 
looked back, winning 25-18 and pulling the match even at one game apiece. 
Both the third and fourth sets 
were brutally contested. 
The two heavyweights traded 
blows throughout, with each team taking the other’s best shot and responding with an attack of equal ferocity. 
In the end, however, it was the 
home team that prevailed. 
The Gators won 25-21 and 25-
20 to secure the victory. 
“It is so much fun to beat Flor-
ida State,” senior setter Macken-
zie Dagostino said. “I don’t think 
there’s another match out there that we’re not this pumped up for.” 
Dagostino amassed 48 assists 
en route to the win. 
Florida also received excellent 
play from its two middle block-ers, sophomore Rhamat Alhassan and Antwi, who combined for 26 kills and and 15 blocks. 
Their performances were es-
pecially significant considering the absence of senior outside hit-ter Ziva Recek, who is competing for the Slovenian national team at the European Championships, leaving the Gators short-handed.  
“They battled, so it was re-
ally such great individual efforts in some trying circumstances against a great team,” coach Mary Wise said. 
“To go toe to toe with Florida 
State and be able to pull out a win is a testament to the team’s char-acter.” 
VOLLEY,  from pg13Florida's middle blockers combined for 26 kills and 15 blocksUF downs FIU with scoring barrage 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Will Grier drops back to pass during Florida's 14-9 win against 
Kentucky on Saturday at Commonwealth Stadium in Lexington, Kentucky. “W e asked the leadership group to try and talk to the 
team and see if we could get a different response and 
kind of a quick start.”
Becky Burleigh
UF soccer coach16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2015
CROSS COUNTRY
By Ethan Bauer 
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
Eddie Garcia has had an illustri-
ous cross country career at Florida. 
It has included making the All-
Southeastern Conference Freshman 
Team, All-SEC Second Team and 
being named USTFCCCA All-South 
Region twice. 
However, there’s one thing the 
redshirt senior had never done until Saturday at UF’s Mountain Dew In-vitational: win. 
“I wouldn’t want it any other 
way,” Garcia said of his victory in his last home meet as a Gator. 
“This is my last Mountain Dew 
and this is actually my first individ-ual cross country victory, so being able to win this one was awesome.”
While Garcia could add this vic-
tory to his list of accomplishments as a UF cross country runner, the rest of the men’s team had another number in mind: two. 
Two is the number of years in a 
row the team has now fallen short at its lone home meet of the season.  
While it was apparent first place 
would come down to Florida and the University of North Florida when both teams placed seven run-ners in the top-16, few expected it to be quite as close as it turned out 
to be.
Ultimately, the Ospreys edged 
past the Gators 31-32, even though UF had a faster overall time of 
2:06:55.12, compared to UNF’s 2:06:59.35.
“When your team averages fast-
er than the other team, it’s a little bit even harder to swallow,” cross country coach Paul Spangler said. 
“But hey, that’s racing and 
sometimes, that’s what happens.”
The women’s team also had the 
number two in mind. However, for them, it represented the number of years in a row that the team has won the Mountain Dew Invitational. 
Spangler, who was concerned 
about the gap between the team’s 
three and four runners coming out 
of the season’s first meet, was hap-py to see progress on that front. 
“We had 30 seconds between 
our one and four,” he said, “and Caitlin McQuilkin-Bell is gonna be 
right there with our fourth runner. 
So that’s encouraging.”
When the women won the race 
last year, they were led by a UF course record-setting time from Lauren Brasure. This year, Brasure finished eighth on the team. 
While she would’ve liked to have 
replicated her past success, Brasure 
doesn’t feel that her performance 
on Saturday is going to define her season. 
“I’m a little displeased with my 
time and my place but I’m happy to look forward to improvement throughout the rest of the season,” she said. 
Another Florida runner who felt 
mixed emotions about the team’s victory was freshman Maria Larsen, who finished first on the team in the season’s first meet but finished in third on Saturday. 
“I was happy because we ran as 
a team…, but I felt kinda tired to-wards the end,” she said. 
“I wanted to kick butt all the way 
to the end. So I’m happy with it, but I wanna be in front next time.”
Larsen and the rest of the men’s 
and women’s teams have two weeks to continue improving before they’ll travel to South Bend, Indi-ana, for the Notre Dame Invitational on Oct. 2. Redshirt senior wins individual title for men; women win it all
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF redshirt senior Eddie Garcia (157) races at the front of the pack during the Mountain Dew Invitational 
on Saturday at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. The race was Garcia’s first collegiate cross country title.
