We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaTUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 123
Florida men’s tennis team getting 
back to work
The Gators lost 4-0 to Ole Miss on Sunday, 
pg 16
A tale of two drivers: Reporters take on 
driving simulations
Read the ﬁ  rst-person accounts, pg 5.
Students organize Flex Bucks food drive
It will be April 19 and 20, pg 8.ON TWITTER
Check out the descriptions of our print 
redesign. Cresoniah Hsieh / Alligator 
In Memoriam
Pictured is a folded card reading “T aja DeJesus, ” who was the fourth trans woman of color to die violently in the 
U.S. in 2015. The card was placed as part of a vigil on Turlington Plaza on Monday night in memory of trans women who have been murdered.
CAMPUS
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF biology freshman Erika Atencio 
wears her “Supraman Strong” T-shirt 
when she asks for donations.
Her friend Ian Supra has battled 
stage 4 esophageal cancer for more than a year. Despite several rounds of chemotherapy, the cancer spread to 
Supra’s liver, lungs and lymph nodes.
Atencio said Supra’s medical bills 
are “a hell of a lot,” which is why she joined her Dr. Phillips High School 
classmates in an effort to offset his 
hospital and treatment costs by selling “Supra Strong” bracelets and T-shirts.
After Atencio, 19, and her friends graduated from high school, she said they distributed the  bracelets to col-
leges across the country —  from Flor-
ida State University to Harvard Univer-sity. Now, the wristbands will be given 
to UF students, who have the option of 
donating money to help Supra’s family cover medical costs. Wristbands sold for cancer fund
SEE WRISTBAND,  PAGE 4MARSH RABBIT POPULATIONS HAVE 
DECLINED 99 PERCENT.
By Sophia Karnegis
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF wildlife ecology and conservation professor has con-
ﬁ  rmed the cause of a declining rabbit population in Gaines-
ville’s sister swamp, the Florida Everglades National Park.
Robert McCleery’s ﬁ  ndings, published March 17 in the bi-
ological research journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B, 
attributed the population decline of marsh rabbits — a preva-
lent species in the area — to Burmese pythons.
“There was a paper that showed an approximately 99 per-
cent decline in marsh rabbits in Everglades National Park,” said McCleery, who led the study. “They used to be the most common animal seen in the park.”
McCleery and his team set out to afﬁ  rm the existing hy-
pothesis that the Burmese python was the offender to blame.
McCleery said 95 marsh rabbits were captured and re-
leased into one of two areas: one free of pythons and one full of them.
Each rabbit had a radio tag attached to it, and researchers 
would track them every two days, McCleery said. Once a sen-sor monitoring vital signs of the rabbits went on, indicating that one of them had died, they would track down the rabbit.
McCleery said if a tracker was found inside a python, the 
team assumed the python killed the rabbit. 
“The hope is that this study raises awareness and allows 
us to start studying different ways that we can move py-thons,” McCleery said.
Kamran Ali, a 19-year-old UF environmental science soph-
omore, said he believes that controlling the population of py-thons is necessary to maintain a balanced ecosystem.
It is important to prevent the annihilation of marsh rabbits 
because each species contributes to the overall life cycle, Ali said.
“There should be measures taken to prevent a species 
from completely dominating another,” Ali said.  Everglades rabbits 
didn’t hop away;pythons ate them
“There should be measures taken to prevent a species 
from completely dominating another.”
Kamran Ali
environmental science student
THE PROGRAM USES THE 
HASHTAG #UIFRESH.
By Alyssa Fisher
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
About 60 percent of students entering col-
lege as STEM majors don’t follow through 
with it.
Throughout her time at UF, Natalie De-
Varona has watched students switch out of the STEM majors they came to pursue. The UF industrial and systems engineering senior said she hopes the University Inno-vation Fellows campaign that launched Monday will end the 
STEM discouragement.
“I feel the statistics,” DeVa-
rona, 22, said. “They’re drop-
ping like ﬂ  ies.”
University Innovation Fellows launched 
the national #uifresh campaign to attract and retain incoming freshmen by exposing them to the innovative and entrepreneurial experiences possible within the STEM ma-jors, said Humera Fasihuddin, the co-leader 
of the UIF program.
UF is one of 10 schools 
aiming to tackle the issue of declining STEM majors. Fasi-huddin said participation often drops because students lack 
a community and get discouraged by the tough classes.
She said each participating school’s UIF leaders will develop projects to infuse fun, energy and innovation into the ﬁ  elds to draw STEM-inclined students into the community.  
“We want students to say, ‘I found my 
tribe here, and I’m excited to pursue my 
STEM ﬁ  eld,’” Fasihuddin said.
DeVarona, one of UF’s two UIF leaders, 
said she’s hoping to help inﬂ  uence students 
at a younger age.
“(STEM) is a huge opportunity area,” she 
said. “It’s so valuable. We’re here to say, ‘No, you can stick with it. You can do it.’”  New fellows program to encourage STEM majors to stay put
CAMPUSWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Vote to Change the Game
Be a Game Changer Contest 
videos are up on UF’s Sexual 
Trauma/Interpersonal  
Violence Education Facebook page and are awaiting your views! Check out all three 
and like your favorites. Videos 
are awarded points in the Fan Favorites category of judging based on Facebook likes at facebook.com/STRIVEUF/vid-
eos.
‘After Innocence’ film showing
Gainesville Citizens for Alternatives to the Death 
Penalty will air the 95-minute film “After Innocence” tonight at 7 p.m. in the lounge at St. Augustine’s Catholic Church 
and Student Center, located 
at 1738 W. University Ave. The film follows the story of seven men, including one from 
Florida, who were wrongfully 
convicted and spent years in prison for crimes they did not commit. The public views exonerations as success sto-
ries — wrongs that have been 
righted. The film reveals that the human toll of wrongful imprisonment can last far lon-
ger than the sentence. Film is 
followed by refreshments and discussion. More info at gt-diller@ufl.edu.
World War I Sheet Music 
Collection Exhibit Open in Smathers Library GalleryThe George A. Smathers 
Libraries presents When Uncle 
Sammy Leads the Band, an exhibition of items from the Bernard S. Parker World War I Sheet Music Collection. On 
display through May 8, this 
exhibition pays tribute to the music industry during World War I. Bernard S. Parker, not-ed historian, educator and au-thor of the two-volume “World War I Sheet Music,” donated his extensive collection of vin-
tage sheet music to the Popular 
Culture Collections at UF in 2011. When Uncle Sammy Leads the Band marks the ded-
ication of these materials as a 
valuable resource for students and researchers. An opening reception will be held today from 2 to 3 p.m. in Smathers 
Library, Room 100.
Fracking Documentary Coming 
to High SpringsOur Santa Fe River, along 
with Food & Water Watch and Physicians for Social Responsibility will show “Groundswell Rising,” a film 
that examines the dangers of 
fracking. After the film, Craig Stevens, whose Pennsylvania community has seen the devas-
tation that the fracking indus-
try can have, will talk about what could await Florida’s residents if fracking moves for-ward in the state. Free to the 
public, it will air today at High 
Springs Civic Center, located at 330 Santa Fe Blvd. Doors open at 6:30 p.m., and the film 
begins at 7.
Free Tie-Dye
On Wednesday from 11 a.m. 
to 1 p.m. on the Plaza of the 
Americas, STRIVE will help 
the first 100 visitors craft a tie-dye tank or T-shirt to promote the upcoming Take Back the 
Night March and Rally to End 
Sexual Violence. Write your reason for marching, snap a pic, upload to social media and then fold, band and dye. Wear 
your tie-dye to the march and 
rally April 1 from 6 to 9 p.m. on Norman Field to show your support for survivors and for 
ending sexual violence. You 
can be the generation to end sexual assault.
Inner Tube Water Polo tourna-
ment
Inner tube water polo is played 
just as its name suggests. Participants will play the tradi-tional sport of water polo while 
sitting in inner tubes to make 
this game fun for anyone. No experience is necessary. Participants must register by 5 p.m. March 26 on IMLeagues. 
The tournament will be held at 
the Florida Pool on March 28.
Fifth annual GASA Glenti
The Greek American Student Association and the Department of Classics pres-ent the GASA Glenti. Join us in Touchdown Terrace (in Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium) from 8 to 
11 p.m Friday. Listen to tradi-tional Greek music, taste au-thentic Greek cuisine and ex-
perience the culture of Greece. 
The event is free and open to the public.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 123
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°
TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
CAMPUS
By Shannon Dudzinski
Alligator Contributing Writer
The rain subsided just in time for 
Gainesville residents to sip and savor 
fresh food grown through UF’s re-search program Monday night.
UF and the Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences welcomed 180 people to their second “Flavors of Florida” event at the UF President’s House. The event showcased tastes and smells of foods grown by breed-ers from the UF/IFAS Plant Inno-vation Center and Plant Breeding Program. Varieties of blueberries, tomatoes, strawberries and peaches were featured at this year’s event.
“This event brings a visual to our 
efforts and highlights a small but im-portant aspect of what IFAS does,” said Jack Payne, UF’s senior vice president for agriculture and natural resources.
The guests were able to sample 
the ingredients from the plant in-novation research in nine meals, including Sunray Venus Clams with Datil pepper and cheddar grits.
Top Gainesville chefs teamed up 
with the leading scientists to create the dishes, including cooks from Cacciatore Catering, Mildred’s Big City Food and Embers Wood Grill.
Jackie Burns, UF/IFAS dean for 
research, said Monday the establish-
ment of the Plant Innovation Center 
at UF was ﬁ  nally formalized.
“The center being approved gives 
us the opportunity for innovation 
across the campus,” Burns said. “We 
hold this event to showcase what we 
have done and show our stakehold-ers what we have been working on.”
She believes the center will help 
connect the colleges on campus 
through the research of how food af-
fects the human body and behavior.
“We have the critical mass to 
improve your food, to make it taste 
great, make it healthier and make it 
more appealing to your senses,” said 
David Clark, the center’s inaugural 
director.
As an informal group, PIC  faculty 
worked with plant scientists who re-search the genetic and biochemical components of fruits and vegetables to come up with the genetic recipes for new plants that people will like more. Now, the group is an ofﬁ  cial branch of UF/IFAS.
“Let’s all be good ancestors,” 
Payne said as he wrapped up the evening. “You can expect great things from IFAS.”Guests savor ‘Flavors of Florida’ at IFAS event at Pres House
Shannon Dudzinski / Alligator 
Pictured is produce showcased in the “Flavors of Florida” event at the UF President’s House on Mon-day evening. Guests were able to taste dishes made with ingredients grown by breeders from the UF/IFAS Plant Innovation Center and the UF/IFAS Plant Breeding Program.
THE MINIMUM DELIVERY 
CHARGE IS $5.
By Eric Heubusch
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF student is hoping to solve the grocery 
woes of the carless.
Gator Grocery was the brainchild of Alex 
Green, a UF ﬁ  nance freshman. With his ser-vice, students stranded on campus can choose from more than 2,000 items at Publix and have them delivered to their doorsteps. He launched the site this month with his friend Joshua Mon-tiel, a 19-year-old UF economics freshman.
“I felt like it would work perfectly for a 
college place because most people don’t even have cars,” Green, 18, said.
To place an order, users can visit gatorgro-
cery.com and choose from categories or search for products using keywords. Either Green or Montiel will go out, buy it and deliver it for as little as $5. Customers can send them an email about products not listed on the website. 
Montiel said he knows a lot of students 
whose busy schedules keep them from getting to Publix.
“So if they just go ﬁ  ve, 10 minutes online, 
they could order anything they want from the store, and we’ll bring it to you, guaranteed,” Montiel said.Gator Grocery is looking to compete with 
local delivery services, such as Lazy Delivery.
However, Patricia Potestades, the Lazy 
Delivery director of media relations, said only about a third of its deliveries are groceries.
“While these new services are somewhat in 
the same market as us, we still do a lot of non-grocery deliveries,” Potestades said.
Green and Montiel are optimistic about the 
future of Gator Grocery and hope to see it ex-pand to every major university in Florida. UF students start own online delivery service Gator GroceryBy Samantha Gutman
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will host a beneﬁ  t 
today to highlight the issue of food 
insecurity and world hunger.
S.T.E.A.M. Academy, an interdis-
ciplinary organization that combines 
science, technology, engineering, 
arts and math disciplines, will host its ﬁ  rst Hunger Beneﬁ  t today from 7 to 10 p.m. in Emerson Alumni Hall.“We really wanted 
to have a big event that would motivate the Gainesville com-munity to take action locally and globally,” said Kiona Elliott, founder of UF’s S.T.E.A.M. 
Academy.
Elliott, a 20-year-old UF horticul-
ture sophomore, said the event will 
include free food, two poetry perfor-mances, a West African drum and dance piece, music and three inspira-tional speakers.
One speaker is 
Levy Odera, a former UF professor who grew up in poverty.
At UF, Odera taught Poverty and 
Development in Africa, which in-
spired him to start a nonproﬁ  t orga-
nization, Rural Empowerment and Development Innovations, in 2013.
“REDI started as a vehicle where 
students can play a critical role in improving living standards of rural communities,” Odera said.
He said he came to the U.S. in 
2003 with a strong personal mission to learn about poverty and to build connections that could help small businesses in Africa. 
Odera will share his own story of 
growing up without food in his house at the Hunger Beneﬁ  t. He will also touch on the need for smallholder farmers in Africa to increase produc-tion so they can earn more income.
Other speakers include Danielle Flood, public relations and commu-nications manager of ECHO — a Fort 
Myers-based organization aiming to 
reduce hunger — and Tony Ande-noro, project director of Challenge 2050 — a UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences initiative to sus-tain the world’s growing population.
The Bezos Family Foundation 
and Humanitarian Interactions on Campus are sponsoring the beneﬁ  t. 
Tickets are not required, but seating 
is available upon reservation.
STEAM event to talk about world hunger, food insecurity
CAMPUS
“W e’ll bring it to you, guaranteed.”
Joshua Montiel
co-founder of Gator Grocery“I cannot express my grati-
tude enough for the people that 
try to help out,” said Atencio, 
who has been friends with Su-pra since sixth grade.
After Supra announced his 
diagnosis Jan. 31, 2014, his friend Mateo Mayorga went 
home and thought of what prod-
uct he could sell to offset Su-pra’s medical bills.  
That night, he said, he or-
dered 300 bracelets.
With the help of Supra’s 
elementary-school sweetheart, Tina Ashour, Mayorga created Team Supra.
In three days, a group of Su-
pra’s friends sold 1,000 brace-lets at school for $5 a piece. In one year, the team sold more 
than 2,000 bracelets, with the 
remainder of FSU’s batch being 
given out at UF this month.
Through donations on Su-
pra’s YouCaring pages, which raises money to help his cause, Team Supra raised $91,795 and $4,160. The group’s T-shirt sales on Booster, another fundraising 
website, have raised $1,060.
Mayorga, a journalism fresh-
man at Valencia College in Or-lando, said the name “Supra 
Strong” was easy to come up 
with.
“It sounds just right — Supra 
Strong, you know?” the 19-year-old said.
Mayorga said he pays for ev-
ery bracelet order with his own money so all profits directly 
benefit his friend.
After they met in ninth grade, 
Mayorga said he and Supra bonded instantly.
“We were brothers as soon as 
we met,” he said.
They were inseparable, he 
said, sharing a mutual love for 
athletics. Supra played on the 
high school water polo team 
while Mayorga coached.
After rounds of chemothera-
py, Atencia said Supra became sick and skinny.  
After he had completed three 
rounds, Supra still played a game of water polo, Mayorga said.
“Supra Strong really defines 
him,” he said.
Although he is in pain, Aten-
cio said Supra is always in good spirits.
“He takes it like a champi-
on,” she said.
Cancer is still in Supra’s 
lymph nodes, which prompted 
doctors to remove 31 of them 
about four months ago.
Atencio and Mayorga said Su-
pra always makes friends with other patients at the hospital, and he is invested in promoting 
their triumphs and prayer re-
quests on the Team Supra Face-book page.
Mayorga said Supra asked 
him at the hospital to help raise money for a 5-year-old who has 
an inoperable brain tumor.
“He’s sitting in a hospital 
bed, puking his guts out, won-dering what he can do for some-
one else,” Mayorga said.4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Erika Atencio, a UF biology freshman, hugs her friend Ian Supra, 
who has battled stage 4 esophageal cancer for more than a year. After hearing of Supra’s diagnosis in January 2014, Atencio and a group of her friends raised money to offset his medical bills by selling “Supra Strong” bracelets and T-shirts.
The Associated Press
In a courtroom sketch, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and defense attorney Judy Clarke are depicted watching evidence on a monitor during Tsarnaev’s federal death penalty trial on March 9. Tsarnaev is charged with con-spiring with his brother to place two bombs near the marathon finish line in April 2013, killing three and injuring more than 260 spectators.
IT WAS PART OF WOMEN’S 
HISTORY MONTH.
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
afigueroa@alligator.org
Turlington Plaza was silent except for the 
humming of the vending machines Monday night as people gathered to commemorate the lives of transgender women.
In honor of Women’s History Month, UF’s Women’s Student Association, Pride Student Union and LGBT Affairs office held a vigil for transgender women who have been murdered this year.
Michelle Nolan, Women’s History Month 
director, said all the honored trans women were murdered because of their orientation. The UF organic chemistry second-year gradu-ate student said it’s important not to exclude trans women from Women’s History Month.
“We’re trying to be more inclusive of trans 
women this year because they’re traditionally left out,” the 24-year-old said.
Eight names were elegantly written in pink, 
blue, green and red ink on cards that rested on 
the stripes of the transgender flag  placed on a 
brick bench.
Blank cards and colored pens were avail-
able for others to include more names. By the end of the vigil, about 13 names were added. 
Some cards had broken hearts drawn next to the names. Small, battery-powered candles illuminated the paper names, and a sober si-lence filled the circle.  
Stefani Dopico, the WSA social media direc-
tor, said it’s important to create a safe space for a marginalized group of people. The 20-year-old UF telecommunication sophomore said at-tending the vigil was difficult, yet necessary.
“Every time someone added a name, it was 
painful,” Dopico said. UF groups hold vigil in honor of murdered trans women
WRISTBAND,  from pg 1Supra’s friends have sold bracelets  
at several college campuses so far
“I cannot express my gratitude enough for the people that 
try to help out.”
Erika Atencio
UF biology freshmanBy The Associated Press
BOSTON — An admission 
by Dzhokhar Tsarnaev that he 
bombed the Boston Marathon has vastly accelerated the pace of his federal death penalty trial. While 
the trial was origi-
nally expected to last three to four months, it could be over in about half that time. Prosecutors could rest their case in the guilt phase as early as next week.
Here are a few things to know 
as the trial moves forward:
THE CHARGESTsarnaev faces 30 federal charg-
es for conspiring and carrying out twin bombings with his older brother, Tamerlan, who was killed 
three days later during a gunbattle 
with police. Three people were killed and more than 260 were in-jured when two pressure-cooker bombs exploded within seconds of each other near the marathon finish line on April 15, 2013. Tsar-naev is also charged in the kill-ing of a Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer and a violent confrontation with police that nearly killed a transit police officer.
THE GUILT PHASEProsecutors have presented 
more than 70 witness-es since testimony began March 4, in-cluding bombing sur-vivors who lost legs, the father of Martin Richard, first re-sponders who treated the injured, police of-
ficers and FBI agents 
who collected and an-
alyzed thousands of pieces of evi-dence, including surveillance video and bomb components. Tsarnaev’s lawyers did not cross-examine any of the bombing victims and have kept their questioning of other wit-nesses short.
WHAT’S NEXTProsecutors are expected to 
wrap up their case in the guilt phase within a week. The witness list remains sealed from public view, so it’s difficult to know ex-actly who the remaining prosecu-tion witnesses are.First phase of Boston 
Marathon bombing trial winding down
NATIONAL
NEWS“Every time someone added a name, it 
was painful.”
Stefani Dopico
WSA social media directorTUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 SAFETY
By Paige Levin
Alligator Contributing Writer
The first time I drove drunk, I swerved 
within 10 seconds of getting behind the wheel 
and crashed into a parked car.
Luckily, I was in the middle of the Plaza 
of the Americas, under a tent, inside a parked truck and driving through the eyes of virtual goggles, so I got a second chance. Had I not 
been participating in UNITE’s Arrive Alive 
Tour virtual-reality program Monday, my fate 
may have been different.
The Arrive Alive Tour visited UF’s campus 
Monday and stationed itself on the Plaza of 
the Americas so students could experience 
drunk or distracted driving through its virtual-
reality program.
The experience went a little something 
like this: I got into the car just like I normally 
would (sans seat belt, however — what drunk 
person would think to use that?). I put on my 
virtual-reality goggles and was instantly trans-ported from the green plaza to the snow-cov-ered mountains of Colorado.
An Arrive Alive representative asked me 
how drunk I wanted to be the way a waiter asks you what you want to drink. “How many drinks should we say you had in a two hour time period? Four? Five? Do you think you 
could do six?”
After inputting my information into the 
system, the computer calculated that my 
imaginary blood alcohol content was 0.12 g/dL, meaning there were .12 grams of alcohol for every deciliter of blood. To put it into per-spective: The legal limit in most states is 0.08, but most accidents happen between 0.06 g/dL and 0.10.
That’s what most people might call “tip-
sy.”
The wheel felt stiff, but I was swerving un-controllably from side to side. I don’t think I 
stayed in the correct lane for more than five 
seconds. On my second try, I didn’t drive more than 10 mph, ignoring the 45-mph speed limit. Yet, I crashed my car within 30 seconds.
Afterward, I was handed a ticket for swerv-
ing, driving below the posted speed, driving on the incorrect side of the road and collision. 
“At least you didn’t get marked for vehicu-
lar manslaughter,” the representative com-mented.
It all reminded me of Crazy Taxi, a video 
game many played as kids. The scary part is that most of the time, this isn’t a game.A tale of two drivers: Reporters take on driving simulations 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Brittany Hammer, a 21-year-old UF finance senior, demonstrates how to use UF organiza-tion Nightlife Navigators’ drunk driver simulator. Hammer, Nightlife Navigators’ vice chair of outreach, collided multiple times with cars and pedestrians during the simulation.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Contributing Writer
Much to the cones’ dismay, Cpl. Gerry 
Hunter of the Gainesville Police Department 
covered my eyes while I drove a black Chev-rolet Impala at 35 mph Friday.
Hunter, among other off-duty officers, led 
a distracted driving course as part of an on-going study by Pentagon Communications, a student-run public relations group at UF.
And, no, it was not a simulator. I was 
driving an actual car on a closed course packed with vulnerable traffic cones at Santa Fe College’s Institute of Public Safety.The expanse of concrete and orange 
cones resembled my high school driver’s ed class, minus the teacher having access to the brakes and steering wheel.
A clipboard obscured my vision as I 
gripped the steering wheel, took a deep breath and barreled down a runway of cones in the first obstacle.
Hunter removed the clipboard as I ap-
proached a wall of cones and sprinklers, 
which were meant to represent pedestrians 
on a road slick from rain.
Tires screeched as I harnessed my inner 
stunt driver, swerving right and avoiding the cones.
But my confidence dropped while navi-
gating tight, weaving bends in the last two obstacles, which simulated a parking lot or crowd of people.
The death toll of cones increased when 
my iPhone began to ping, and I answered 
text messages like, “Are you here yet?? Bring 
coke!” “Also, can you bring ice?”
Ignoring the welfare of the cones, I texted 
back.
Pentagon Communications plans to use 
its observations from the course, combined with focus groups and online survey results, to create a no-texting-while-driving cam-paign for GPD.
Kayla Ellsworth, the principal investiga-
tor for Pentagon Communications, said they hope to change how younger generations view texting and driving.
She also wants to make texting while driv-
ing a primary offense, rather than secondary, which doesn’t allow officers to pull someone over solely for texting.
At the end of the course, I left with a 
strange sense of satisfaction from an officer praising me for my reckless driving.
“Good job,” Hunter said.However, I do want to give a shout-out 
to the fallen cones that lost their lives during my excursion.Behind the wheel with a 0.12 The perils of distracted driving
By The Associated Press
LYNCHBURG, Va. (AP) — Launch-
ing his bid for the Republican presiden-tial nomination, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas asked Christian conservative voters to imagine a United States without the IRS, 
Obamacare or abortion rights — and to 
imagine they can make that happen by supporting him.
His aspirational appeal 
Monday, aimed at Ameri-ca’s most conservative vot-ers, could quickly run into 
challenges in winning over 
moderate voters — and eventually deep difficulties in governing should Cruz win the White House.
But it’s a message that Cruz, the first 
major 2016 contender to declare himself a candidate, is expected to forcefully em-phasize in the coming year before voters 
start to pick nominees.
“God’s blessing has been on America 
from the very beginning of this nation, 
and I believe that God isn’t done with Americans,” Cruz declared at Liberty Uni-versity, a Christian school founded by the late Rev. Jerry Falwell.
“I believe in you. I believe in the pow-
er of millions of courageous conserva-tives rising up to reignite the promise of America. And that is why, today, I am an-nouncing that I am running for president of the United States of America.”
Cruz won’t be the sole GOP contender 
for long. Two Senate colleagues, Ken-tucky’s Rand Paul and Florida’s Marco Rubio, are eyeing campaign launches 
soon. And former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, 
Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker and New 
Jersey Gov. Chris Chris-tie are expected to follow, among others.
The 44-year-old Cruz 
is betting his White House hopes on profoundly con-servative voters and their 
opposition to policies they 
find abhorrent.
Within such circles, 
there is deep distrust of the IRS, which was revealed last year to have been scru-tinizing tea party groups’ nonprofit sta-tus.
During his 30-minute kickoff speech, 
delivered like a sermon without notes or 
cue cards, Cruz made clear he sees elec-
toral potential in his unbending advocacy.
“Today, roughly half of born-again 
Christians aren’t voting — they’re staying home,” Cruz said. “Imagine, instead, mil-lions of people of faith all across America coming out to the polls and voting our values.”Cruz targets conservatives as he starts White House run
The Associated Press
Sen. T ed Cruz, R-T exas, his wife Heidi, and their two daughters Catherine, 4, left, and Caroline, 6, 
wave on stage after Cruz announced his campaign for the presidency Monday at Liberty Univer-sity in Lynchburg, Virginia. Cruz, who announced his candidacy on Twitter in the early morning hours, is the first major candidate to officially enter the 2016 race for president.
NATIONAL
NEWSThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORUVA frat exoneration 
does not invalidate 
sexual assault
Sexual assault on college campuses has become one of 
the deﬁ  ning issues of the mid-2010s. Discussion of the 
problem is widespread, and at this point it has become 
impossible to ignore. The president launched an initia-
tive to combat it. Sen. Marco Rubio is sponsoring legisla-
tion against it. As a community, we were forced to deal with it 
during last year’s spree of yet-unsolved attacks against women.
Late last year, the University of Virginia became a ﬂ  ashpoint 
for the problem. The university was subject to national atten-
tion after Rolling Stone broke a story about a student by the 
pseudonym “Jackie” who was the victim of a brutal rape at a 
fraternity house. The story describes the night she was raped, 
the repercussions on her life and the administration’s failure to 
take action. The story seemed too horrible to be true.
And, in fact, Rolling Stone’s story did not hold up. An inves-
tigation into the fraternity accused in the story, Phi Kappa Psi, concluded yesterday. Her case isn’t yet closed, but whatever 
happened to Jackie did not happen in that house, according to 
police.
Almost as soon as the story was published, discrepancies 
arose. It seemed the subject of the story, Jackie, had contra-
dicted established facts. Rolling Stone, in accordance with her 
wishes, hadn’t interviewed her would-be perpetrators. In doing 
so, Rolling Stone lapsed on one of the fundamental ideals of media ethics — get all sides of the story. Rolling Stone apolo-
gized and sent the story to the Columbia Journalism School for 
review.
Because of shoddy reporting, Rolling Stone made a mockery 
out of itself and cheapened a national crisis.
Phi Kappa Psi’s reputation is bruised; Rolling Stone’s is tar-
nished. But Jackie and victims who would speak out have been 
inadvertently taught a lesson: Keep your mouth shut.
There are those who are opposed to taking action against 
the prevalence of sexual assault; even the idea of its existence is suspect to them. The belief is fueled by mistrust of the gov-
ernment’s established one-in-ﬁ  ve statistic, cultivated by sites 
like NewsBusters.org, reiterated by slightly more mainstream 
columnist George Will. People who reserve the same sneer for the word “progressive” as when they say “Marxist,” who spend 
their lives hounding sick “libs” believe the whole thing is either 
overblown or deliberate and malicious propaganda.  
The fact that this story turned out to be false — insofar as 
Jackie wasn’t raped at that frat, on that night — delights these 
critics. To them, it’s proof of the pattern: A leftist magazine fal-
siﬁ  es horriﬁ  c rape accusations against innocent fraternity gen-
tlemen, begging Barack Hussein Obama to intervene in higher 
education. Rolling Stone’s irresponsibility in this story validates 
their warped worldview, taking away from the issue at hand. 
Instead of an endemic campus-rape problem enabled by apa-
thetic college administrations, the nation’s outrage turned to a 
publication whose principal contribution to the last decade has been as an archive of Bob Dylan photos.
Whatever develops from the UVA story, know this: Sexual 
assault still plagues us. Detractors can use the UVA story to 
argue otherwise, but that’s Rolling Stone’s problem, not ours. 
In the meantime, we urge responsibility and integrity in dealing with this very real and important issue.Public-humiliation trends a setback for society
The sixth annual TEDxUF conference was held Satur-
day, and it was a chance to see the awe of TED Talks come to life right here on our own campus. Unfortu-nately, I did not manage to land a ticket. But, inspired by the availability of an event on campus so similar 
to the innovative presentations I used to watch every week, I went searching for some good TED Talks to watch.
TED Talks can be iffy occasionally; whenever a joke falls 
ﬂ  at I ﬁ  ght the urge to cringe in sympathy, and sometimes what seems like the coolest topic ever turns out to be annoy-ingly dull. However, the other day I struck gold on a TED Talk — one that a lot of other people agree is monumental.
I was far too young to understand what the issue was 
when Monica Lewinsky became a household name in America, but since then, practically every U.S. citizen has become familiar with her story. Her recent TED Talk on the “culture of humiliation” that is turning pretty much all of us into horrible people brings a new perspective to her ex-perience, and it’s something more people should listen to.
We scroll through click-
bait articles on Facebook and Reddit all the time, usu-ally just searching mindless-ly for something to entertain us for ﬁ  ve minutes or less while walking across campus or waiting in line for coffee. We click on links just to see what they are, just because we can, and often we don’t realize the impact it might have on whatever poor soul the “Shocking expose!” or “You won’t believe this!” headline is about. Le-winsky reminded us that, whatever you might think about the scandal surrounding her, the gross and ruthless humili-ation she faced and the online attacks against her were early examples of what we now call cyberbullying and Internet harassment.
I believe journalism should continue to thrive and relent-
lessly work to keep the public informed. However, there is a massive difference between news journalism and the theft of private information and harassment that fre-quently accompanies low-level click-bait and scandal stories. Let’s keep our integrity.
When the infamous “celeb-gate” 
occurred in September, I discussed how the nude photographs leaked in the attack were not fresh fodder for 
gossip or entertainment, but instead an invasive violation of rights. In a sense, the same situation applies to Lewinsky.
Lewinsky’s TED Talk is a call for society to ﬁ  ght against 
the numb disregard we seem to generate in response to viewing the suffering of others. This disregard is callous, and we should be ashamed.
It’s true that we can’t care about everyone’s problems. 
As humans, we are ultimately quite selﬁ  sh with our own 
time and personal goals. However, we should make an effort to stop the tasteless obsession with public sham-ing that mass-sharing social media websites unintention-ally promote.
Cyberbullying affects children and teens in school every 
day. We all agree that bullying is bad, right? The “culture of humiliation” Lewinsky speaks of is simply another form of ugly, steal-your-lunch-money bullying but with far more drastic consequences for the victim.
When we blindly distance ourselves from this disease 
of modern society, cyberbullying becomes more prominent in our high schools and middle schools, and it perpetuates itself. 
We need to speak out against this crime.Sally Greider is a UF English and public relations sopho-
more. Her column appears on Tuesdays.
TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
“As humans, we are ultimately 
quite selish with our own time 
and personal goals.”TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
If there’s one thing Americans 
don’t like talking about, it’s death.
We feel uncomfortable even 
thinking about it, let alone 
discussing it openly. We would much rather push the thought of 
death further and further to the 
back of our minds, choosing to delay any conversations about it for as long as possible. As a result, when we visit someone who is dy-
ing, we aren’t sure how to behave 
or what to say.
Death and dying are difﬁ  cult 
and painful topics to talk about, 
especially for those who have 
been in the presence of it. 
But as challenging as talking 
about death may be, we owe it to ourselves and our loved ones to 
have open, honest conversations 
about the eventual ends of our lives.
According to an Institute of 
Medicine report released last year, most Americans have not docu-
mented or discussed their end-of-
life wishes with their families. 
Even though 90 percent of 
Americans thought it was impor-tant to have these conversations, not even 30 percent have actu-
ally done so. The report, “Dying 
in America,” also found that the American health care system is still struggling to address end-of-life care.
Not enough doctors are trained 
in end-of-life care, and some 
health providers are reluctant to 
directly address the issue with patients and their families. These roadblocks make it more difﬁ  cult 
to treat people with terminal is-
sues in a way that respects their values, beliefs and desires.
“Of people who indicate end-
of-life care preferences, most 
choose care focused on alleviat-
ing pain and suffering,” the report reads. 
But without advanced plan-
ning and medical orders, people may not receive the care they tru-ly want — or they will receive it 
far too late.
The National Hospice and Pal-
liative Care Organization reported 
last year that of the 1.5 million 
Americans who received hospice care in 2013, one-third died or were released within a week of getting it. 
This is a sad reminder that our 
country needs comprehensive education about end-of-life care options. If family members are unaware of their loved one’s end-of-life preferences, they might be hesitant to suggest hospice care if they know little about it and think 
of it as giving up.
Dr. Craig Bowron summed it 
up best when he wrote about the difﬁ  culties of helping family mem-
bers accept the end of their loved one’s life: “Our culture has come 
to view death as a medical failure 
rather than life’s natural conclu-sion,” he wrote in The Washing-ton Post.
Recognizing that all lives come 
to an end, hospice care focuses on making the process of dying as comfortable and peaceful as possible. It provides pain man-
agement, emotional and spiritual 
support and, most importantly, dignity. 
From personal experience, I 
have seen the compassion and comfort that hospice care offers. For both the patients and their loved ones, it can help a great deal to be in an environment that 
understands the pain and address-
es it in the best way it can.
We should all strive to have 
meaningful conversations about 
the end of life, even if we feel un-
comfortable doing so. In order to provide ourselves and our loved ones the highest quality of life, we have to consider our quality 
of death.
It might seem morbid to write a 
column about death, especially in 
a newspaper mostly read by col-
lege students. But that’s the point 
— we shouldn’t be afraid to talk about it, and we shouldn’t reserve the discussion for people of a cer-tain age.
Hopefully, we will eventually 
overcome our country’s harmful social taboo of not talking about dying. In doing so, we can nor-malize the topic and empower 
members of society to have open 
and honest discussions about this important part of life.
Moriah Camenker is a UF pub-
lic relations senior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.Talking about death an important part of lifeColumn
Ariana Miya-moto was born May 
12, 1994, in 
Sasebo, Ja-
pan. She is a Japanese citizen. She speaks 
Japanese ﬂ  uently. She 
spent her childhood years in Japan. She identiﬁ  es as Japanese. Miyamoto’s beauty, talent and 
strong sense of patriotism en-
abled her to win the 2015 Miss Japan Pageant. With this vic-tory, Miyamoto will represent 
Japan in the Miss Universe Pag-
eant. Despite her qualiﬁ  cations and talent, Miyamoto has faced criticism, and people have ques-tioned her ability to represent 
Japan.
It’s because she is only “half” 
Japanese.
Miyamoto was raised by a 
Japanese mother and an Af-
rican-American father. This makes her Afro-Asian or bi-racial, but the term critics have used is “hafu.”  This is a term in 
Japanese that identiﬁ  es a person 
as not fully Japanese. This term is typically not used in a posi-tive fashion and has a xenopho-
bic connotation.
Since winning the title of 
Miss Japan, Miyamoto has been 
on the defensive with Japanese media outlets. A number of 
them have questioned her abil-
ity to represent Japan. But she has acknowledged that while she may not look Japanese, she 
sees herself as such.
Miyamoto has had to go 
above and beyond to prove 
just how Japanese she is. Per-haps this is because Japan is 
known for its xenophobia and 
resistance to outside inﬂ  uence. This is evident with reports of Japanese policemen questioning 
foreigners and some landlords 
refusing to lease apartments to foreigners.
What’s more interesting is 
the fact Miyamoto has to prove 
she is Japanese mainly to Japa-
nese media outlets. American news outlets appear to acknowl-edge her as a Japanese woman 
who happens to be half black. 
But the idea that she is anything other than Japanese is harped on a continuous basis in Japan.
It is important to 
note that not every Japanese citizen is against the decision to have Miyamoto repre-
sent Japan in the Miss 
Universe Pageant. The director of “Hafu: The Mixed Race Experi-
ence in Japan,” Megumi Nishi-
kura, has been a vocal supporter 
of this decision. She has stated repeatedly that it is an oppor-tunity for the Japanese people 
to rid themselves of dated xe-
nophobic thoughts and expand what it means to be Japanese.
As an Afro-Asian person my-
self, the story of Miyamoto is 
one I relate to. When you are bi-
racial, people constantly ques-tion your allegiance to both of your racial backgrounds. It is ir-
ritating that throughout my life 
I have been asked to conform to stereotypes of my respective races and asked to select be-tween the two. I imagine Miya-
moto has had to deal with the 
same struggles in her life.
The point I want all of Mi-
yamoto’s detractors to under-
stand is the fact that race is 
not a scientiﬁ  c concept. Race is a human-made identiﬁ  cation mechanism that holds no form of scientiﬁ  c merit. 
It is a scientiﬁ  c fact that all 
people have a common ancestor in the form of our Mitochondrial Eve. We all have DNA from this 
ancient woman; that makes us 
all the same race. The differ-ences in appearance stem from geographical location, genetic selection and adaptations.
Why is it important that race 
is a form of human-made iden-tiﬁ  cation? 
It is important because that 
means each human gets to iden-tify what they are racially. As an Afro-Asian person, I primar-ily identify as a black man due to the experiences I’ve had in 
America. Miyamoto didn’t grow 
up in America though. Miyamo-to grew up in Japan. If she says she is Japanese, she is Japanese. 
She has all the qualiﬁ  cations to 
be such. The people who are questioning her ability to repre-sent Japan have no real basis for the apprehension. 
I’m sure Miyamoto will do 
phenomenally in the Miss Uni-verse Pageant, and if the peo-ple questioning Miyamoto are 
half as patriotic as they portray 
themselves to be, they will cheer her on as she does an exception-al job representing Japan.
Emanuel Grifﬁ  n is a UF jour-
nalism freshman. His column appears on Tuesdays.Race: What matters is identity, 
not categorization at birthColumn
Emanuel 
Grifﬁ  n
opinions@alligator.org
Moriah 
Camenker
opinions@alligator.org
“In order to provide ourselves and our 
loved ones the highest quality of life, we 
have to consider our quality of death.”
“Race is a 
human-made 
identiication 
mechanism that 
holds no form of 
scientiic merit. ”
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff 
The Cardboard T estimonies
Theta Alpha members Maddie Ward, 19, Brittany Petrelli, 20, and Michelle Sindoni, 18, hold card-
board testimonies of their lives before and after God on Turlington Plaza on Monday. “It’s a nice proc-lamation of our faith without getting in people’s faces, ” Ward said.
EXACT TURNOUT NUMBERS WILL 
NOT BE RELEASED UNTIL 
ELECTIONS END WEDNESDAY. 
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Voting for Student Government kicked 
off Monday morning at Santa Fe College.
Under a thick, overcast sky at about 
11:30 a.m., students flocked to a single vot-
ing station outside S Building where they received two slices of pizza in exchange for their vote.
Bryan Dolson, 19, had planned on vot-
ing at home but decided to vote early when he walked by the voting sta-
tion.
“I figured I might as well 
do it and get free pizza,” the 
undeclared major said.
The candidates running are Connor 
Flynn and Hannah Gwynn, who are run-ning unopposed for Student Body president and vice president respectively, and Justin Deese and Timothy Bergman for Treasurer.
But some students said they knew little to nothing about the candidates on the bal-lot.
Adam Smith, a 20-year-old political 
science sophomore, said the 
lack of information about 
candidates “makes you feel like you’re just winging it, and you don’t really know 
who you’re voting for.” 
He said he was disappointed by the 
small pool of candidates to choose from.
“I literally don’t know who they are,” 
said Nick Diaz, a 19-year-old Santa Fe 
psychology freshman. “There is nothing around here that tells me who they are.”
Shortly before 3:30 p.m., the pizza ran 
out, and the polling station quickly went 
vacant. Within a half hour, the station 
closed.
Sen. Connor Levine and other SG mem-
bers said there was a good turnout, but 
no hard numbers will be available until Wednesday’s Senate meeting at 4 p.m. 
Students can cast their vote today at the 
polling station outside of P Building. The location for Wednesday’s voting station will be determined based on which of the 
two locations draw the largest turnout.SFC elections underway, SG officials noticed good turnout
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
afigueroa@alligator.org
Last semester, roommates 
Mitchell Kaye and Connor Balint 
were waiting at the Rawlings Hall bus stop when a homeless man ap-proached them to ask for food.
Balint, a 19-year-old UF ac-
counting freshman, walked into Subway and bought the hungry man a sandwich using his Flex Bucks.
It cost the UF accounting fresh-
man nothing to feed the man, giv-ing Kaye, a 19-year-old UF market-ing freshman, an idea to put his 
Flex Bucks to better use.
After a month of planning, 
Kaye partnered with Bread of the 
Mighty Food Bank in Gainesville to organize a food drive at Rawl-ings Hall P.O.D. Market using un-needed Flex Bucks. 
Students will be encouraged 
to buy nonperishable items with 
their leftover Flex Bucks from 1 to 
4 p.m. April 19 and 20, an event Kaye coined Flex Philanthropy.
“It’d be nice to just wipe out the 
P.O.D.” he said.
According to Gator Dining’s 
website, Flex Bucks accompany most student meal plans and can range from $200 to $450. If stu-dents have Flex Bucks left over at the end of the semester, the money disappears.
Sara Girard, a UF telecommu-
nication freshman, works behind-the-scenes in Flex Philanthropy’s YouTube videos and manages its Facebook and Twitter accounts to inform students about the food 
drive.
“It’s something that’s easy and 
should appeal to a lot of people be-
cause if they don’t use their Flex Bucks, they disappear,” Girard, 19, said. “No matter what, it helps a lot of people.”Flex Bucks food drive
By The Associated Press
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) 
— A four-month police investi-
gation into an alleged gang rape 
at the University of Virginia that 
Rolling Stone magazine described in graphic detail produced no evi-
dence of the attack and was sty-
mied by the accuser’s unwilling-ness to cooperate, authorities said Monday.
The article, titled “A rape on 
campus,” focused on a student identified only as “Jackie” who said she was raped at the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity more than 
two years earlier.
It described a hidden culture 
of sexual violence fueled by binge 
drinking at the college. Police said they found no evidence of that either.
There were numerous discrep-
ancies between the article, pub-lished in November 2014, and what investigators found, said 
Charlottesville Police Chief Timo-thy Longo, who took care not to 
accuse Jackie of lying.
The case is suspended, not 
closed, and the fact that inves-
tigators could not find evidence 
years later “doesn’t mean that something terrible didn’t happen to Jackie,” Longo said.
He appealed for 
anyone with infor-mation about any sexual violence to immediately alert 
police and expressed 
hope that Jackie may one day feel comfort-able explaining what happened.
“There’s a difference between 
a false allegation and something that happened that may have been different than what was 
described in that article,” Longo 
said.
Asked if Jackie would be 
charged with making a false re-port, he said: “Absolutely not.”
Jackie’s attorney, Palma 
Pustilnik, said she would have no comment on the investigation.
Accurate or not, the article 
heightened scrutiny of campus sexual assaults amid a campaign 
by President Barack Obama to 
end them. The University of Vir-ginia had already been on the Department of Education’s list of 
55 colleges under in-
vestigation for their 
handling of sex as-sault violations.
Longo said Jack-
ie’s first mention of an alleged as-sault came without key details, dur-ing a meeting she 
had with a dean about an aca-demic issue in May 2013. The dean brought in police, but the case was dropped because Jackie 
didn’t want them to investigate, 
Longo said.
In any case, the “sexual act” 
she described that year was “not consistent with what was de-
scribed” in the Rolling Stone ar-
ticle.Almost immediately, news or-
ganizations found discrepancies that prompted the magazine to print an apology.
Rolling Stone eventually asked 
the dean of the Columbia Univer-sity Graduate School of Journal-ism to review its editorial process and the piece by its contributing 
editor, Sabrina Rubin Erdely. The 
magazine said Monday that the review’s results are “imminent” and would be published in a cou-
ple of weeks.
Investigators spoke to about 70 
people, including friends of the 
accuser and fraternity members, and spent hundreds of hours on 
the investigation, Longo said. 
None provided any evidence sup-porting the claim of a gang rape at the Phi Kappa Psi house. 
They gathered ample evidence 
casting doubt on Jackie’s claims, he said.
The article described Jackie’s 
recollection of a date she had on 
Sept. 28, 2012, with a classmate, 
who she said lured her upstairs at his fraternity house, where she was raped by seven fraternity brothers and thrown through a glass table. Distraught and bleed-
ing, Jackie told three friends that 
night about the assault, and two of them urged her to stay silent to avoid becoming a social outcast, the article said.
In interviews with The Asso-
ciated Press, however, the same friends said the opposite was true: They said they insisted Jack-
ie contact police, but she refused. 
Despite questions about the arti-cle, Sullivan took a number of ac-tions, including a temporary ban on Greek social events. The fra-
ternity called the article defama-
tory and said it was exploring its legal options.
“These false accusations have 
been extremely damaging to our entire organization, but we can only begin to imagine the setback this must have dealt to survivors of sexual assault,” said Stephen 
Scipione, president of the Virginia 
Alpha Chapter of Phi Kappa Psi.
Police: No evidence of gang rape at University of Virginia
NATIONAL
NEWSSANTA FE
CAMPUS
“No matter what, it helps a 
lot of people.”
Sara Girard
member, Flex Philanthropy TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Gainesville Throwbacks
March 28, 1968
Then-Sen. Robert F. Kennedy kicked off his 
statewide campaign in his run for president at 
UF. He spoke on the Plaza of the Americas “via 
a special telephone ampliﬁ  cation system.” While the event was organized primarily in support of Kennedy’s presidential run, “students who were 
sympathetic to Democratic peace candidate Eu-
gene McCarthy” were also invited.
March 23, 1984Two local grassroots groups hosted the maiden 
concert of the “Rock Against Reagan” tour, where performers and speakers lectured on the dangers of the Reagan administration. The weekend was a forum for the community to come up with alterna-
tives to “the things Reagan promotes — racism, 
sexism and nuclear holocaust.” Representatives from the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Law also spoke.
March 24, 1994A 12-member jury unanimously recommended 
ﬁ  ve death penalties to Danny Rolling, a now-infamous Gainesville serial killer, for the mutila-
tion and murder of ﬁ  ve college students in August 
1990. Rolling pleaded guilty Feb. 15, 1991, and the jury took ﬁ  ve hours to reach a decision. Rolling was already serving four life sentences for various armed robberies.
“Life in this case is a punishment,” said Johnny Kearns, Rolling’s chief assistant public defender. “Mr. Rolling is going to die in a small room behind a brick wall covered with concertina wire with a life sentence. That’s going to happen. He’s going to die in that prison.”
— ALEX HARRIS
Alligator File Photo
In this ﬁ  le photo from March 1984, Gainesville residents Aleah Raskin, 14, and T ami Wilks, 16, etch 
their names into the wet cement in front of the University Bookstore. The concrete ﬁ  nisher, Ray Young, erased their names after they ran away.
TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    3-24-15-15-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-27-15-30-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    3-26-15-15-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, 
& 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/
text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.
CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA 
house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    3-24-15-10-2
Walk to Class!
Fully remodeled historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, W/D, hardwood floors
$750 mo. 352-505-5049     3-27-15-10-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balcony
Parking included $575 mo.
352-505-5049       3-27-15-10-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      3-27-15-10-2
$950 2/2 located at Campus Edge.
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE SUMMER/FALL 2015! 2 Bedroom, 2 Bathroom Apartment with Washer and Dryer is only $950 a month! Call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    4-2-15-14-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA, 10 blks from campus. Nice house. Hardwood floors, cen-tral heat/air, W/D provided. 1105 NW 10th Ave. $1550/mo, call/text 352-339-2342. pic-tures at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-24-15-5-2
Charming 2 bed 1 bath housewith large fenced yard, screen porch,washer/dryer hookup,dog with deposit,1123 nw 31st avenue, lease,$800475 1586 or/213 1963 leave message   3-25-15-5-2
LARGE 4 X 2 HOUSE
Bike to UF. Travertine and granite bath-
rooms, cent ac/ht. Modern kitchen, garage, 
fenced. Landscape care included. Avail Aug 
14th, 1 yr lease. No pets. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.UNIVERSITY HOUSE 2BR/2BA APT(for re-let) 5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent in-cludes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $325/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-27-15-20-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
ROOMMATE NEEDED Private br/ba. Close 
to campus in 2BR/2.5BA duplex. Near bus 
stop. $375/mo + utils. Gym, pool, free inter-
net. Furn living rm. Avail now. Share w/male 
student. Call Rita 904-608-7609    3-25-15-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished3 Subleases 6 FurnishingsTUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-1291 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers                352-771-6191
3-31-15-14-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-3-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE .
9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary experience ideal      3-31-15-14
CHORES XL a study at the University of Florida, seeking volunteers age 20+ to look at how much energy people burn while do-ing common activities like walking, washing dishes and doing laundry. Compensation provided, 4 visits. Free parking. Call 352-273-5919.    4-1-15-10-14
Immediately hiring Asst. Mgr & FT employ -
ees for consumer durable goods retail store off of Tower Rd. Drug-Free workplace. Must be able to lift up to 75 lbs, stand for extended periods of time & work weekends and eve-nings. Send resume to gnvretailhrdept@gmail.com    4-2-15-10-14
Summer Tutor. Teach a 10 year old girl basic English and math to help her trans-fer to the US education system. Experience with children and reference required. ~20hr/wk, $12-14/hr. contact Lilyc569@gmail.com    4-2-15-8-14
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 3/30 - 4/3 from 5-7 p.m. each day.   Verbal sessions are M & T; Math sessions are W & R.  Go to the teachingcenter.ufl.edu and click “Study Skills” and “Workshops” to register and learn the location.      3-31-6-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 23 RidesTUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Stay updated with alligatorSports
For all updates on UF athletics, 
follow us on Twitter @alligatorSportsFlorida lacrosse drops in latest poll
The UF lacrosse team fell three spots to No. 10 in the Inside Lacrosse Media 
poll, which was released on Monday. The Gators went 1-1 last week, losing to then-No. 14 Stony Brook at home and defeating Vanderbilt on the road.Bryan Shelton and the Florida 
men's tennis team are hoping to get back to their winning ways following a 4-0 loss to Ole Miss on Sunday. Read the story on page 16. By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
Alabama softball has not been swept 
at home in 11 years.
Haylie McCleney wasn’t going to let 
the Gators change that on Monday.
The Crimson Tide center fielder 
stepped into the batter’s box and 
cranked a two-run home run on the 
first pitch she saw from Delanie Gour-ley in the fifth inning.
Florida couldn’t come back after 
that.
The No. 3 Gators (30-3, 3-3 South-
eastern Conference) dropped the final game of the series against No. 5 Ala-bama (22-7, 6-3 SEC) 5-1 Monday night 
in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
Florida couldn’t complete the sweep 
but won the series 2-1. 
UF’s starting pitcher Gourley strug-
gled to find the zone early on. The 
sophomore walked three batters in the bottom of the first inning but escaped a bases loaded jam with a strikeout and 
a groundout.
Florida took a 1-0 lead after junior 
Kirsti Merritt doubled to lead off the 
top of the second inning and scored 
from third base on a wild pitch from 
Alabama starting pitcher Alexis Osorio.
Merritt and sophomore Justine 
McLean collected all four of UF’s hits 
and finished a combined 4-for-5 in the 
game.
Alabama batters started to figure out 
Gourley in the bottom of the second inning. Crimson Tide hitters Andrea 
Hawkins and Kallie Case singled be-
fore Gourley once again pitched out of trouble with a strikeout and a popout 
to end the inning.
Gourley allowed the leadoff hitter to 
reach base in each of the first three in-
nings, but it didn’t bite her until the 
fifth inning.
The Crimson Tide grabbed a 2-1 lead 
in the bottom of the fifth inning when 
Danielle Richard walked and McCleney 
Alyssa D. Garcia / Alligator
Sophomore pitcher Delanie Gourley pitches during Florida's 14-10 loss to 
LSU on March 14 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. Gourley gave up six hits and five earned runs in UF's 5-1 loss to Alabama in the final game of the series on Monday. However, the Gators already clinched the three-game series by winning the first two games.
GYMNASTICS
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
The Florida gymnastics team earned the No. 2 na-
tional seed for the 2015 NCAA Championships and will 
compete at the Morgantown, West Virginia, Regional on April 4 at 4 p.m.
No. 11 Stanford, No. 14 Illinois, Arkansas, New 
Hampshire and host West Virginia join the Gators at the regional.
Florida has won 14 NCAA Regional titles, including 
nine in the last 10 seasons.
The top two teams at the regional — in addition to 
the first and second place finishers at the other five re-gionals — will advance to the NCAA Semifinals, the first of two days of team competition at the NCAA Championships, on April 17 in Fort Worth, Texas.
The 12 teams are split into two, six-team competi-
tions at the semifinal round based on the seeding given to them prior to the regional round. The top three teams in each six-team field will advance to the next day’s Su-per Six, where the national champion will be decided.
Florida is coming off a third-place finish at the South-
eastern Conference Championships in Duluth, Georgia. The Gators had the top marks on the vault, uneven par-allel bars and floor but finished sixth out of the eight 
teams on balance beam.
"The small consolation and the thing that we are re-
ally focusing on coming away from this championship 
is knowing that the quality of our gymnastics and the things we did on the three events is hard to beat," coach Rhonda Faehn said. "It's going to be very challenging. ... We have to be able to put it all together."Gators earn No.2 
seed for NCAAs
UF AND STETSON HA VE 
NOT PLA YED SINCE 2009.
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
 After dropping its first weekend 
series of the season last weekend 
against Ole Miss, the No. 4 Florida baseball team looks to turn it around when it travels to play Stetson at 6:30 p.m. in DeLand.
"All in all, we have some work to do," coach Kevin O'Sullivan said in a release. "We obviously did not play our best this weekend. We have some work to do, but so does every-one else.”
Florida (20-5) is 78-34 overall 
against Stetson (14-11). The Gators have won both games 
in the series under coach Kevin O’Sullivan, both of which came in 2009.
After starting the season 8-9, 
Stetson has won six of its last eight games, most recently taking two games in a weekend series against Long Island. The Hatters scored 26 runs in that series and posted a .317 batting average in the process.
UF will start freshman Alex Fae-
do (1-0, 1.50 ERA) on the mound against Stetson. 
Florida baseball finishes road swing with game against StetsonUF softball drops third game against 'Bama
Florida at the last five 
NCAA Regionals
2014 : 
197.05; First place at University Park (Penn.) 
Regional
2013: 
198.40; First place at Gainesville Regional
2012: 
197.325; First place at Raleigh (N.C.) Regional
2011: 
196.425; Second place at Denver Regional
2010: 
197.675; First place at Salt Lake City RegionalFlorida won first two games to take series
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015By Justen Rosenberg
Alligator Writer
@JustenRosenberg
The Gators entered Monday’s 
first and second round of the Bri-
ar’s Creek Invitational as a top-25 team for the first time this season.
Leaving Gainesville with an in-
creased confidence level, the team traveled to Johns Island, South Carolina, with the mindset of ac-complishing something they have yet to do this season – win a tour-nament.
Multiple rounds of golf were 
only expected on Day 1, as the teams used a shotgun start to be-gin 36 continuous holes. 
However, both days will fea-
ture more than 18 holes as Round 2 was suspended.
After Monday’s 6-over-par per-
formance, the Gators will head into the final day of the tourna-ment in a great position to accom-plish what they set out for.
They are in first place in the 
leaderboards, leaving the coach satisfied with the results.
“I’m really happy with the fight 
we showed today,” coach Emily 
Glaser said in a release. “We saw 
all the elements -- the cold, wind and rain, plus being out there all day for almost 36 holes, it was a grind. You had to be tough to score well today.”
Three golfers fin-
ished in the top-10, led by a career day 
from sophomore 
Kelly Grassel - the transfer from Michi-gan State, who set a school record for lowest scoring aver-age by a freshman while with the Spartans.
Grassel finished the first round 
with a season best three-under-par, the lowest score of any Flori-da golfer all year, with birdies on Holes 1, 5, 7, 8 and 9.
The sophomore was able to 
carry her Round 1 performance to the next, finishing holes 4 through 15 at one-under par, with a birdie on Hole 14.  
After Day 1, she has a cumula-
tive score of 4-under-par and the number one spot on the individual leaderboard.
Grassel wasn’t the only sopho-
more leading the way for Florida, as Karolina Vlckova was able to turn in one of the better perfor-mances of her young career. 
Vlckova trumped her last per-
formance, finishing with an even first round score of 72, before shooting a 3-over-par on holes 4 through 15 before play was sus-
pended in the second round. 
She is in a tie for eighth place 
with freshman teammate Taylor 
Tomlinson and four others.  
While the sophomores per-
formed at a high level, Tomlinson, who was recognized as the SEC Freshman Golfer of the 
Week, proved worthy 
of the selection.
Tomlinson finished 
the first round 1-over-par with four birdies in the round. 
With seven holes remaining 
before completion of round 2, Tomlinson needs three birdies to 
match her season best of seven 
through two rounds.
Teams will tee off at 8 a.m. 
today, where they will conclude round 2 and begin the third and final round of the tournament.
“The goal is to finish strong 
and come ready to compete,” Gla-ser said. “The course should be 
score-able, they won’t change the 
pins, and the greens are receptive. It will be a fun finish.”Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Freshman Ericha Fassbender steps back onto the balance beam 
after falling during the Southeastern Conference Championships on Saturday in Duluth, Georgia.
Justen Rosenberg / Alligator
Kelly Grassel lines up a shot during the 2015 Gator SunTrust Invitational on UF’s Mark Bos-tick Golf Course. Grassel has a field-best 4-under-par at the Briar’s Creek Invitational partway through the second round, which was suspended on Monday. T eams will finish play today.
GYMNASTICS
By Graham Hack
Alligator Writer
@graham_hack24
After Saturday night’s beam debacle for the Flor-
ida gymnastics team, coach Rhonda Faehn wants to 
see more fight from everyone.
Although the Gators won each of the evening’s 
other three events, Florida essentially coughed up the conference title after suffering two falls and a touch on beam during the Southeastern Conference 
Championships.
As the team’s control of the meet slowly slipped 
away with its shrinking composure, the gymnasts’ 
demeanor turned from positive to stunned — a deer-in-the-headlights look. 
Although the situation was difficult to deal with, 
Faehn said she didn’t see enough fire from her team when things got tough.
Now, for the next two weeks before Florida takes 
the competition floor in Morgantown, West Virginia, for its NCAA Regional, Faehn is searching for that resolve in her gymnasts.
“What I am going to be challenging the athletes 
(about) heading into the regional championship is 
‘who is showing the most fire?’” Faehn said. “Who 
is showing the most passion? Who is fighting for ev-ery little, tiny thing?
“And it’s gonna be those athletes who are earning 
those spots in the lineup positions because those are the athletes that will go down with the biggest fight. It’s gonna be an important two weeks.”
Even though Florida won’t have another highly pressurized situation until the next competition, Faehn said she plans on throwing the kitchen sink 
at each gymnast during the team’s training days to 
make them all as nervous as possible.
By the time the Gators compete again, she hopes 
nothing they face is as daunting as training.
While beam is the obvious event in which chang-
es are likely, Faehn said floor is also being evalu-ated based on how each gymnast responds to the training. 
No position in any lineup is safe.
“I don’t wanna ever say lineups are set, because 
you have to prove yourself day in and day out,” 
Faehn said. “...But for sure, there’s gonna be some adjustments on beam and, potentially, floor.”
Faehn said she believes the team’s confidence is 
unshaken, and she expects them to respond well to any changes she poses to them. 
But nevertheless, those adjustments will be the 
most important decisions Faehn has made all sea-
son.
She knows how crucial getting them right will be 
for fixing the issues before it’s too late.
“We don’t want this to happen to us at the na-
tional championship, where it has happened to teams in the past,” Faehn said, “where you feel like 
you have a championship and you lose it just that quickly — in the blink of an eye.”Coach looking for passion from 
gymnasts as UF looks toward NCAAs 
“I don’t wanna ever say line-ups are set, because 
you have to prove yourself day in and day out.”
Rhonda Faehn
UF gymnastics coach
Florida tops leaderboard after first day at Briar’s Creek
WOMEN’S
GOLFBy The Associated Press
FALL RIVER, Mass. — Testimony in the 
murder trial of former NFL player Aaron 
Hernandez focused on guns Monday, with a bank teller saying Hernandez asked her to send $15,000 out of his $1.8 million pay-check from the New England Patriots to a Florida man. Prosecutors say the money 
was used to buy guns.Hernandez has pleaded not guilty to 
murder and weapons charges in the June 
2013 killing of Odin Lloyd, who was dating the sister of Hernandez’s fiancee. The mur-
der weapon has never been found. Prose-cutors have said it was a .45-caliber Glock.
Former Bank of America teller Heidi 
Carrera testified that Hernandez deposited 
three checks totaling more than $1.8 mil-
lion on April 11, 2013. Among them was a 
March 2013 check signed by Patriots team owner Robert Kraft for more than $1.8 mil-lion. Hernandez also deposited a $30,000 check from Puma and a $7,500 check from 
another company, she said.
Carrera said Hernandez asked her to 
make a $15,000 deposit from that money 
into a Florida bank account held by a man 
named Oscar Hernandez.
Oscar’s son, Oscar Hernandez Jr., 
pleaded guilty in January in federal court 
in Boston to lying to a grand jury, witness tampering, obstruction of justice and a gun 
conspiracy charge. Oscar Hernandez Jr. is 
not related to the Patriots’ former star tight end, who had a $40 million contract with the Patriots at the time of Lloyd’s killing.
Authorities traced three guns found dur-
ing the investigation of Lloyd’s killing to Florida and have said Oscar Hernandez Jr. shipped them to Aaron Hernandez’s home in a beat-up Toyota Camry that was found 
in the football player’s garage.
Also Monday, Superior Court Judge Su-
san Garsh granted immunity to a friend of 
Oscar Hernandez Jr.’s named Gion Jack-
son. Jackson testified that Hernandez Jr. 
was with him when he bought a .22-caliber Jimenez gun at a hardware store in Flori-da on April 16, 2013, five days after the $15,000 was sent to him by Aaron Hernan-
dez. He said he put the gun in his trunk.
Later, he said, federal agents came to 
his home and told him his gun was found 
in Massachusetts.
The gun was found in the woods be-
tween Hernandez’s home and the indus-trial park where Lloyd’s body was found.TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
AP Photo
Defense attorney Charles Rankin cross-examines a witness during the murder trial for former NFL player Aaron Hernandez, 
left, at the Bristol County Superior Court in Fall River, Massachusetts, Monday. Hernandez has pleaded not guilty to murder and weapons charges in the June 2013 killing of Odin Lloyd.
Teller: Hernandez sent $15K to man accused of selling gunsTHE AARON HERNANDEZ TRIAL
homered to right field on the first pitch she saw from 
Gourley.
An inning later, Alabama tacked on three insurance 
runs. The first came on a wild pitch from Gourley to push the score to 3-1.
A few batters later, McCleney struck again – this 
time for a two-run triple that gave the Crimson Tide a 
5-1 lead.
McCleney finished the game a perfect 3-for-3 with 
four RBIs.
Gourley allowed six hits and six walks through her 
5.2 innings of work. 
The Lakeside, California, native gave up five earned 
runs in her first loss of the season.
Five runs were more than enough support for Ala-
bama’s Osorio, who struck out seven batters through seven innings of work in the win. She allowed just four 
hits and zero earned runs. 
Florida already clinched the series after winning the 
first two games by scores of 1-0 and 4-1. The second game of the series was suspended Saturday due to rain 
and was resumed in the fifth inning Monday prior to 
the series finale.
The Gators scored all four of their runs in the open-
ing frame on Monday after trailing 1-0 before the game 
was postponed.
UF continues road play this weekend with a three-
game series against Mississippi State starting Friday.SOFTBALL,  from pg. 13Florida had four hits in final game
By Eneisy Rodriguez
Alligator Writer
@eneisyr29
The No. 2 Florida women’s tennis team heads to College Sta-
tion, Texas, in hopes of extending its perfect record against South-
eastern Conference teams.
The Gators (15-1, 7-0 SEC) face the Texas A&M Aggies (8-3, 5-1 
SEC) today at 3 p.m.
This contest was originally scheduled for earlier this month but 
was postponed due to inclement weather conditions.
Florida finished the weekend strong, defeating both of its op-
ponents at home, with a 5-2 victory Friday over No. 17 Ole Miss and a 5-2 win over Mississippi State on Sunday.
Coach Roland Thornqvist said in a release he is confident his 
team is physically ready to play Texas A&M.
“They’re generally the same kind of team as we are. They 
can run, they can defend and play long points, games and sets," Thornqvist said. "So I think it’ll be a fun match.”UF women's tennis 
faces Texas A&M today Florida’s series vs. 
Alabama by the numbers
.216Florida’s team batting aver -
age
11Runners UF left on base20
3Runs scored
Times Kirsti Merritt was hit 
by a pitch“(Texas A&M is) generally the same kind of team as we are. 
They can run, they can defend and play long points, games 
and sets, so I think it'll be a fun match.”
Roland Thornqvist
UF women's tennis coach16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2015
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Chase Perez-Blanco returns a ball during Florida’s 4-1 win against Mississippi 
State on March 13 at the Ring T ennis Complex. Perez-Blanco has secured a singles point in six of Florida’s last seven matches.
By Caylee Underwood
Alligator Writer
@CayUnderwood
The Florida men’s tennis team is looking 
to move past a split weekend where it was on 
both ends of shutout matches.
The Gators started off the weekend with a 
shutout win against Arkansas 4-0 on Friday.
But two days later, they suffered a 4-0 loss 
to Ole Miss.
Coach Bryan Shelton admitted 
Sunday’s match was not the Gators’ best performance this season.
Couple that with Ole Miss hav-
ing the reigning Southeastern Con-
ference Player of the Year in Nik 
Scholtz, and Florida was already at a disadvantage.
“He just showed us why he really is that 
good,” Shelton said. “Overall a tough assign-ment there and they used the crowd well. Cer-tainty getting the doubles point was just con-tagious for those guys.”
With less than a month to go before the SEC 
Tournament, the Gators head into the rest of the season with a 9-6 record.
If there’s one thing Shelton has been this 
season, it’s optimistic.
He looks at the loss as an opportunity for 
his underclassmen.
“Just a difﬁ  cult challenge for our guys,” 
Shelton said. “It was great experience though, and we’re a young team and we have to learn 
from those experiences.”
Despite losing in Sunday’s singles match 
against Ole Miss, sophomore Elliott Orkin has 
made a crucial impact on the season for UF, 
and Shelton believes he has made his mark.
“He’s a stud,” Shelton said. “I’d go to battle 
with that guy any day. On Friday he was able 
to convert, and on Sunday he wasn’t able to convert but he still played well. He served 
well, he hit the ball hard off the ground, he competed hard, he did so many things well.”
Orkin isn’t the only underclassman leaving 
his mark on the program. 
True freshman Chase Perez-Blanco leads 
the team in singles, only losing one match thus 
far this season.
The 5-foot-8 Miami native has scored a point 
for the Gators in six of its last seven matches and wasn’t able to ﬁ  nish singles against Ole Miss because of a three-court match restraint.
Shelton is ready to start Florida’s 
six-day break from game action to prepare for the Gators next match.
“We gotta get back to work,” 
Shelton said. “I think the main thing 
is getting back on working on some 
individual things. Continue to work on our serves, continue to work on 
the return serve and just working on creating more depth on the baseline.”Florida learning from loss to 
Ole Miss, getting back to work
MEN’S
TENNIS
Florida’s ﬁ  nal ﬁ  ve 
regular season matches
 Saturday: At Auburn, 2 
p.m.
 April 3: Vs. LSU, 5 p.m.
 April 5: Vs. Texas A&M, 
Noon
 April 10: At Kentucky, 5 
p.m.
 April 12: At Tennessee, 1 
p.m.