HOMECOMING EDITIONWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 54
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015
BEN JUDKINS
Life As A Drum Major
“You forget there’s 
40,000 people behind 
you and another 40,000 
in front of you that are 
watching the band.”
FAMILY TIES
At Gator Growl 2015
MIKE WHITE
And His Difficult Task
Filling the shoes of 
legendary basketball coach Billy Donovan
+
CHIPOTLE
Opening New Location
KENT FUCHS
KENT FUCHS
A Week In The Life Of
SWEET DREAMS
Fall Chocolate NightSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Keep Alachua Beautiful
The nonprofit Keep Alachua 
County Beautiful is looking for 
about two dozen volunteers 
to paint the trim of the Archer City Hall at noon Nov. 13. Please email all inquiries to ri-ley.kacb@gmail.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions after above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear 
in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 54
HIGH  90° LOW  60°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
Gator
Convenience
Indian BoutiqueClothing
TapestriesJewelry
Decor
3550 SW 34th St
352-367-2803
Gator
Convenience
Indian Boutique
Convenience
Indian Boutique
Convenience
Clothing
Tapestries
Jewelry
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
RESORT STYLE POOL | OUTDOOR GRILLING | FREE PARKING
 INTERNET & CABLE | PRIVATE SHUTTLE | SELF-SERVE STARBUCKS 
COFFEE | TANNING | SPA | TONS OF GREEN SPACE ®Lease this 
Weekend & Receive 
a Tailgating Package:STARTING AT 8 AM
• Columbia Fleece
• Tailgate Chair & Cooler
• Plus Pay ZERO Fees!4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015
DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?DID YOU KNOW?
STUDENT LEGAL SERVICES
SG.UFL.EDU/ORGANIZATION/SLS/
GATORWELL HEALTH PROMOTION SERVICES
GATORWELL.UFSA.UFL.EDU         City of Gainesville Ordinance #4-4B prohibits possession of 
     opened bottles or cans, flasks, cups, or glasses containing    any amount of alcohol on all city streets, sidewalks, or parking       lots, including the entire University of Florida campus.
                                                                                                                                                         
THIS INCLUDES TAILGATING ON GAME DAY.    THANK YOU FOR YOUR COOPERATION!    City of Gainesville Ordinance #4-4B prohibits possession of opened bottles or cans, flasks, 
cups, or glasses containing any amount of alcohol on all city streets, sidewalks, or parking lots,
         including the entire University of Florida campus. This includes tailgating on game                               
                                                                                          day. Thank you for your cooperation!                                                   
                                                                                             STUDENT LEGAL SERVICES
                                                                                              SG.UFL.EDU/ORGANIZATION/SLS/
                                                                                             GATORWELL HEALTH PROMOTION SERVICES
                                                                                           GATORWELL.UFSA.UFL.EDU                    3 5 2 - 2 7 3 - 4 4 5 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                   
      lots, including the entire University of Florida campus.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
25$ off 
your activation fee
Visit Cricket Wireless at:
3558 SW Archer Rd,
Gainesville FL
When you bring this
coupon in 
*on qualifying plans*
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Kelli Kaufmann is a junior, but 
she’s been a part of the UF Gator 
Growl tradition since childhood.
Her father, Karl, has been the 
Gator Growl announcer since 1980. The year before that, he became the voice of Albert, UF’s 
mascot. At 13, Kelli gave Alberta 
a voice.
As a 4-year-old, she used to run 
around backstage during Growl rehearsals. Now, she’s running it 
herself.
Today, the 20-year-old UF pub-
lic relations junior will take the 
stage as Growl’s Director of Show 
— and as her father’s boss.
      
As kids, Kelli and her sister Kai-
tlyn, a F. W. Buchholz High School 
sophomore, used to tag along to 
Growl rehearsals because their 
mom worked late as a hairdresser.
When Kelli was 4 or 5, she 
grew tired around midnight and 
wanted to go home, Karl, 59, said. 
In her frustration and drowsiness, she broke away from her dad.
“One day I’m gonna be a Gator, 
and I’m gonna be the boss of this, 
and I’ll ﬁ  re you,” he recalled his 
daughter saying.
“She hasn’t done the last part 
yet,” he said.
When the girls were little, they 
tended to stick close to him at re-hearsals, he said. But as they got 
older, they started exploring.
Kelli was backstage with her 
dad in 2007 when Lynyrd Skynyrd 
performed at Growl. One minute 
she was by Karl’s side. The next, 
she was playing the band’s drums.
“Leon Wilkeson walks over and 
says, ‘You having fun?” Karl said.
Wilkeson picked up a guitar 
and started playing along with her while she drummed.
Every year on the night before Growl, Karl, Kelli and Kaitlyn 
would exit backstage to watch the 
ﬁ  nal run-through together.
“We still go up (to the stands) 
that Thursday night,” he said.
      
Both Kelli and her dad moon-
light as true Gators as the voices of UF’s mascots.
For Karl, it began as a small fa-
vor and turned into a 36-year-old tradition.
In 1979, Karl opened his studio 
at WGGG radio station to Gator 
Growl performers in need of a 
place to record their skits.
In the early ‘80s, Growl per-
formers didn’t have portable mi-
crophones. Their skits were audio 
recorded in advance, lip-synched 
on stage and reinforced with elab-orate gestures.
There were 50 stage actors, 
which created a need for 50 dis-tinct voices, he said. When Growl 
performers got ready to record in 
1979, they realized they needed an extra voice actor. Karl volunteered to voice 20 of the characters.
The University Athletic As-
sociation wanted Albert to talk, Karl said. At that time, the mascot would just nod and gesture.
That year, he became the ofﬁ  -
cial voice of Albert.
Growl held auditions for the 
role, but the producers at the time didn’t like their options, he said. 
Albert’s voice needed to reﬂ  ect his 
character.
“He’s just a big ol’ out-of-shape 
gator who epitomizes the Gator 
Nation, and he’s got a soda pop in 
his belly and he’s just kinda a slow drawl and a southern accent,” he said.
Twenty-six years later, the UF 
cheerleading coach suggested Alberta should speak, too. Karl pushed Kelli, 13 at the time, to au-dition.
“She just nailed it,” he said.He said he enjoyed helping in 
1979; he was a big ﬁ  sh in a small pond.
So he took it a step further and 
became the announcer in 1980.
“Somebody had to have a mi-
crophone, and I’m glad it was me,” he said.
      
Kelli said she was nervous she wouldn’t get accepted into UF.
Karl said he told his daughter to 
play to her strengths. She had ex-
perience and ties to the university 
other students didn’t.
“And as the voice of Alberta, I 
would hate to be the voice of the 
Seminoles,” he said she wrote at 
the end of her admissions essay.
When she ofﬁ  cially became a 
Gator, she said she loved the idea of running Growl.
She joined the Growl staff her 
freshman year and became an as-sistant director the next. She was sitting in the Kappa Alpha Theta 
sorority house in April when she 
got the email congratulating her on becoming the 2015 Director of Show, the manager of the acts. 
Her dad didn’t hide his excite-
ment.
“He posted it on Facebook right 
away,” she said.
      
Although Kelli isn’t sure if 
she’ll be running Growl next year, she said she’s happy to have had 
this experience with her dad, she 
said.
They’ll announce the start of 
Growl in an Albert and Alberta 
skit tonight with UF President Kent 
Fuchs, Kelli said.
“We get a kick out of it,” Karl 
said.
Karl said he’ll be at Growl ev-
ery year until they stop asking him 
to come.
He was once asked why he 
never trademarked his voice as Al-
bert’s. But he said he never will. He doesn’t care if someone else 
does it one day.
“You do it for the love of it,” 
he said.
As wonderful as the past years 
have been, Karl said working with 
his daughter will make this year 
the most memorable. 
“You get that one shot at a life-
long memory.”  Father and Daughter share Gator Growl tradition
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Karl Kaufmann poses with his daughters Kelli, left, 20, and Kaitlyn, 
16, in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium during Gator Growl on Nov. 9, 2013. The 59-year-old has been the announcer for Gator Growl since 1980.
By Beatriz Martinez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Next year, students will have ac-
cess to one more shopping mall — 
and one more Chipotle.
Morse Properties recently an-
nounced the creation of a new shop-
ping center at 2225 NW 13th Street. 
The new plaza, called 13th Street Shoppes, is set to be completed around June 2016 and will include a Chipotle and Mattress Firm, among other stores.
Robert Morse, owner of Morse 
Properties, said he feels the location is enhanced with the renovation 
and construction of new businesses, 
including Lucky’s Market, which opened earlier this year.
“We saw the market was under-
served for that type of retail,” Morse said. “There’s none (shopping cen-ters) in that area with good street ex-posure and parking.”
It will cost about $2.5 million to 
build the 9,900-square-foot shopping center. Chipotle will occupy 2,400 square feet of that space. Morse said he feels Chipotle on University Ave-nue is doing well, but it’s only servic-ing the students on campus.
 “I think (the new Chipotle) is go-
ing to do really well,” Morse said. “I think this one is more for the com-
munity and to hand some relief to the 
University store.”
Hassieb Pakzad, a 20-year-old 
UF economics junior, said he is ex-cited for a wider range of Chipotles to choose from.
“I love Chipotle,” Pakzad said. 
“It’s cool that there’s a new one com-ing.”  New 
Chipotle, strip mall coming to GainesvilleFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
819 W. University Ave
352-872-5655
PROFESSIONAL  
BODY  
MODIFICATIONS,
TATTOO,  &
PIERCING
SERVICES
600 NW 5th Ave
Gainesville
FL 32601
(352) 
384-1008Fades and Fros
Queen
Pillowtop Set:
4390 SW 20th Ave
(352) 376–0953
CallAMattressInc.com
Gainesville life, 2015 edition
RIGHT:
UF alumnus Tristan Crim, University of Central Florida alumna Brandy Crim and their son Dean watch the 
residents of the bat houses by Lake Alice make their nightly exit on Wednesday. Crim said 11-month-old Dean’s education status is listed as “future Gator. ”
BELOW:
Shelby Geisler, left, a 23-year-old UF ﬁ  nance senior, and Leigh Ruben, a 21-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering senior, hang out on the steps of the Hippodrome State Theatre on Wednesday. The 
theater has been a downtown Gainesville landmark at 25 SE Second Place since 1980.
Photos by John Hursh / Alligator Staff The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Create long-lasting memories this Homecoming
Hello Gators! I’m back for another issue 
of my new monthly column. I hope ev-eryone survived midterms and is get-
ting ready for a well-deserved Thanks-
giving Break!
It’s been a quite busy semester in Student 
Government. In October, aside from continuing 
to work on all of the projects we promised the 
Student Body in the Spring, we lobbied in Tal-lahassee on educational issues, held an Inﬁ  nity Hall Town Hall and hosted four tabling events with myself and the other executive ofﬁ  cers. We had an 
incredible turnout at Nickel and Dime with Nick, Java with 
Jos, Kick Back with Kevin and Chick-Fil-Hey with SG, and I hope student involvement continues to grow throughout the year. We plan to host one of these events weekly for 
the rest of our term. Kevin, Nick and I have had a great 
time meeting students from all around campus at these events, and we look forward to meeting more as the year progresses.
This week is particularly special for SG and UF. Today 
is what I believe to be one of the best Homecoming tradi-tions: Gator Growl! Now, I may admittedly be a little biased because when I was a freshman, I got the opportunity to perform at Gator Growl because the dance team I was on 
won Soulfest that year. Boy, was I nervous. Like any per-
former before a big show, I was on edge, felt jittery and went through the dance a million times in my head before ﬁ  nally getting that last surge of conﬁ  dence and assurance I had all the dance moves down. Then I felt the rush of my 
life dancing on that stage.
By that point in my freshman year, I hadn’t been in the 
stadium before as I had yet to attend a football game. Per-
forming on stage in the middle of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium 
with the huge lights shining on me, the music playing and 
dancing with some of my closest friends was one of the coolest experiences of my entire life. I still gush a little with excitement when I think about it, and I know I’m not the only one. UF Homecoming is a unique opportunity for students to build longstanding 
memories as Gators that they will cherish for 
years to come and for alumni to reminisce about their experiences on campus. My story and countless others are part of the UF Homecoming 
tradition, just like those of every Gator that we 
celebrate this week.
I’m excited for the opportunity to judge 
Soulfest this year and give another student orga-
nization the opportunity to perform at Gator Growl. Aside 
from watching these talented students perform their talents 
on stage, I can’t wait to see who is selected as the winner to perform on stage. That’s probably one of my favorite parts of Homecoming and Gator Growl because it shows how 
many different students are involved in the process and are 
enthusiastic about their participation in all the events.
Soon after this week, SG will be hosting its own long-
standing tradition here with the State of Campus Address. Every year, the Student Body president holds a State of 
Campus Address to inform the Student Body about the ini-
tiatives SG has been hard at work on and update students on the progress of SG thus far. In the past, this event has been solely hosted by the Student Body President, but this 
year, I decided to revitalize the address and give students 
the chance to hear from Student Body Vice President Kevin Doan and Student Body Treasurer Nicholas Carre as well. It is the perfect opportunity to ﬁ  nd out what’s happening in SG directly from the student leaders. The address will be 
Nov. 16 at 6:30 p.m. in Emerson Alumni Hall. I hope to see 
everyone there!
Once again, please enjoy the Homecoming festivities. 
Don’t forget to stop by my ofﬁ  ce hours and tell me about 
your UF Homecoming traditions. Until next time, ciao!
Joselin Padron-Rasines is the UF Student Body President. 
Her column appears monthly.Homecoming is many things for many people. It’s a time 
for reﬂ  ection and nostalgia; a time for celebration; and, if 
you’re going to Gator Growl, a time for mediocre “indie” 
acts, former CW stars and rappers who released their best 
work 10 years ago. OH! *cue Andrew Dice Clay hand mo-tion* Just kidding, T.I., we loved last year’s “About the Money,” and we still love you.
We hope everybody — students, faculty, alumni and 
Gator families alike — ﬁ  nd something to enjoy in this week-end’s Homecoming festivities. Without further ado, it’s time for this week’s edition of… 
Darts & Laurels
We’re not going to lie to you, our adoring readership, 
or ourselves: This was a pretty slow news week, and the news that did emerge was pretty dire. But we’re not going to let that stop us from giving a Laurel to TransCanada, 
the company behind the proposed Keystone XL Pipeline, for 
requesting the U.S. Department of State to put its review of 
the pipeline on hold.
Even though the request was denied, we can’t help but 
feel all warm and fuzzy inside that maybe, just maybe, TransCanada may possess doubts over the future viability of the pipeline. Yes, we too can alter our perspectives on world events in order to ﬁ  t the structural and format-related needs of our ﬁ  ne paper.
With our token Laurel out of the way, let’s get to the 
Darts, which, for better or worse, dominated this week’s media cycle. Let’s start with Ben Carson, quite possibly the drunkest of all the drunk uncles vying for the GOP nomina-tion.
Beginning today, urban radio (read: hip-hop) stations in 
Houston, Miami, Atlanta and other cities with considerable black populations will be airing a 60-second radio spot from the Carson campaign titled “Freedom.” The spot is… uncon-ventional. Over a Jethro Tull-ian ﬂ  ute sample, “Christian 
Republican Rapper” (his words, not ours) Aspiring Mogul 
repeats the mantra “VOTE… INSPIRE” before spitting the most ﬁ  re verse of 2015: “Ben Carson 2016/Vote and support Ben Carson for our next president, it’d be awesome.”
Listeners are then treated to a soundbite of Carson say-
ing America wasn’t made great by politicians before Aspir-ing Mogul concludes with “If we wanna get America back on track we gotta vote Ben Carson, that’s a matter of fact/Go out and vote.”
Oh boy. Oh, man. Where do we even begin? Besides 
quite possibly being the most condescending, insulting po-litical ad to ever run… you know what? No, we’re just go-ing to leave it at that. For a man who once claimed hip-hop destroys faith, family and values, Carson seems awfully ea-ger to simultaneously pander and mock the intelligence of his would-be supporters. For pulling this crap and believing pyramids were built by Joseph in order to serve as grain silos, Ben Carson gets a foot-in-mouth disease-afﬂ  icted 
Dart.
Another day, another instance of Rupert Murdoch wear-
ing his wealth and awfulness on his sleeve. With Murdoch now ﬁ  rmly in control of National Geographic, one of the most meaningful publications to ever see print, he saw ﬁ  t to ﬁ  re 180 employees, including senior staffers. For forcing the Alligator staff to directly confront the seemingly meaning-less chaos of the world, Rupert Murdoch gets an existen-tially despaired Dart.
According to an NPR proﬁ  le Wednesday, Chris Isaak is 
still around and making music! We don’t listen to him, but because he gave us “Wicked Game” and we’re desperate to say anything remotely positive this week, Chris Isaak gets a sensuous, black-and-white Laurel.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Joselin 
Padron-Rasines
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
The 21st century has brought me a lot 
of things that I’m thankful for, among them being iPhones, the next Star 
Wars trilogy and butt stuff.
Seriously, where would we be to-
day without it? What would horny guys use 
as their first message on Tinder if not, “So… 
Butt stuff?” What would Lena Dunham’s 
“Girls” make headlines for if not the salad tossing of Allison Williams?
It even has a hashtag, which is truly how 
you know you’ve reached the pinnacle of 
chic-ness. Only the coolest of the cool get 
hashtags, which is why we see things like #ItsGreatUF and #ButtStuff2k15 instead of #ItsReallyJustOKFSU and #MissionaryPosi-
sh500AD.
Positions like cowgirl and missionary 
have probably been around since Adam and 
Eve decided to bang in the Garden of Eden, but anal sex — or at least references to it — 
has really been a product of the last decade.
There are no references to the phrase 
“butt stuff” in headlines until January 2005. 
Immediately after its entrance into popu-
lar culture, it dropped off and then started 
steadily rising back until reaching its peak in July of this year, according to Google Trends. 
Let’s credit this to the Fourth of July be-
cause, really, #ButtStuff2k15 is the most pa-triotic thing you can do for your country. I mean it.
Butt stuff — calling it that, at least — is 
pretty much entirely an American trend. 
Aside from Canada copying us — there’s a Mountie joke in here somewhere — to a lesser degree, butt stuff references exist pretty much only in the good old U.S. 
of A.
But all this begs the question: What’s 
with our Tina Belcher-like ass obsession?
When I was trying to brainstorm ideas 
regarding what to write about this week, an 
overwhelming number of people immedi-ately suggested butt stuff. 
Why the fascination?My theory is, despite its popularity, 
there’s still some taboo there. It’s like how you said you would never use Tinder, but then you did. You feel kind of dirty, but man, does it feel good.
The appeal of wanting what you can’t 
have isn’t a new concept. Think Adam and Eve with the apple, Romeo and Juliet and their star-crossed love or me any time I see somebody else’s puppy.  
Beyond that, it’s the “cool” thing to do 
now. 
Telling your friends you had anal over 
a mimosa at brunch is some juicy gossip. Whereas in high school when you wanted to know who was doing it, now we want to know who’s doing it in the butt.
This is evidenced by the myriad how-to 
articles on anal and all the articles that, like this one, discuss its popularity. 
Anal is the new black, and it’s certainly 
trending as such.
The great thing about butt stuff is it does 
not strictly refer to anal sex, which can seem scary and off-putting. 
It’s like a choose-your-own-asshole-ad-
venture. 
If you want to just do hand stuff, do hand 
stuff. If you want to really go ass-spelunk-ing, you do you.
Because even anal play has its levels of 
taboo and acceptability. 
Not everyone might be comfortable with 
all facets of #ButtStuff2k15, and that’s OK.
A finger in the butt isn’t exactly a shock-
er — get it? — anymore. 
Anal sex, maybe more so. Toys, like plugs and beads, are a little 
more intense. 
Eating the booty like groceries — thanks, 
Jhené Aiko! — is probably off the menu for some.
But despite all the jokes, anal sex is pret-
ty intimate. 
Having someone who’s not only willing, 
but enthusiastic, to put a body part inside your sphincter is actually endearingly sweet — no, uh, butts about it.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column appears on Fridays.Butts, butts, butts: Anal is in, can I get a #ButtStuﬀ  2k15 Column
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Just steps away from the Hippodrome
Nutrition on the go
101 SE 2nd Place, Suite 119352-361-2816
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Be a part of something big 
and give blood today. For more information, call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
RUN DATE DEADLINEIN HONOR OF OUR VETERANS,
THE ALLIGATOR WILL NOT BE
PUBLISHING ON:WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER11TH
MONDAY
NOVEMBER 9TH
TUESDAY
NOVEMBER 10THTHURSDAY
NOVEMBER 12TH
FRIDAY
NOVEMBER 13TH
DISPLAY: 376-4482 
CLASSIFIEDS: 373-3463
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Michael Manfredi only had time 
for dark chocolate.
As the owner of Sweet Dreams 
of Gainesville, he originally only had 
time to make the single chocolate 
ﬂ  avor of ice cream, which was eas-
ily the most popular ﬂ  avor among 11 others.
But, to try something different, he 
coordinated a day when his shop sold only chocolate ice cream.
“There is no vanilla going out that 
door on Chocolate Night,” Manfredi said. “Nothing but bowls of chocolate ice cream.”
That ﬁ  rst Chocolate Night in 
Spring 2005, a night when Manfredi and his staff sold 12 varieties of choc-olate ice cream, became a tradition each Fall and Spring semester, and Sunday the shop will host its 10th an-nual Fall Chocolate Night.
Manfredi said Gainesville is what 
makes the event successful.
“This is a town that appreciates 
really interesting, good stuff,” he said.
This year’s event will last from 1  
p.m. to 10 p.m. and include 36 ﬂ  a-vors of chocolate ice cream.Customers can only purchase mini 
scoops of ice cream Sunday, with op-tions ranging from two scoops to 30 
scoops.
The ﬂ  avors will not be released 
until the night before the event on 
the Sweet Dreams Facebook page, but Manfredi said some of the most popular ﬂ  avors in the past have been chocolate bacon, chocolate baklava and chocolate whiskey.
“A lot of it is what I want to eat,” 
he said. “It’s all imagination.”
Manfredi, who makes all the ice 
cream himself, ﬁ  rst started Sweet Dreams after he wanted to open his own ice cream shop and noticed Gainesville did not have a homemade ice cream store. Now, the Chocolate Night serves as a way for Manfredi to remind locals Sweet Dreams is “Gainesville’s best ice cream shop.”
“No other ice cream shop can 
compete with us,” he said. “This is our way of ﬂ  exing our ice cream muscles.”The event is speciﬁ  cally held the 
Sunday after Homecoming because, Manfredi said, it’s the best time. 
He expects about 1,000 people to 
attend, an average attendance for the Chocolate Night event.
Phyllis Chovoor, 19, plans on at-
tending despite her lactose intoler-ance. The UF biochemestry sopho-more previously attended a National Ice Cream Day event at Sweet Dreams during the summer.
“I want to see what they’re going 
to do with all the chocolate ﬂ  avors,” she said. “I’m going with an open mind.”
Sweet Dreams celebrates 10th annual Fall Chocolate Night
“There is no vanilla going out 
that door on Chocolate Night.”
Michael Manfredi
Sweet Dreams owner10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015
By Alyssa Fisher
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  sher@alliagtor.org 
Four years later, Ben Judkins still can’t de-
scribe the tunnel.
Thick concrete mufﬂ  es the sounds of more 
than 90,000 fans, but the Gator Band musicians 
push in their earplugs anyway.
They know the quiet is short lived.
Bodies tense with pre-show jitters. Elbows 
up. Reeds to the lips. Sticks above the snares.
Drum roll, please.
“...the Priiiiide of the Sunshine!” the an-
nouncer booms.
The clap of the drumline doesn’t shake the 
drum major. It signals his sprint through the tunnel and into The Swamp. It signals a herd of 
about 350 students to follow his lead. It signals 
the beginning of what the crowd hopes to be a 
Gator victory. Judkins doesn’t have a number 
on the back of his uniform. The crowd doesn’t 
know his name. But every gameday, he leads 
the sound of the Gator Nation.
Practice Makes Perfect
Light rain brought a chill on the October 
morning when the Gators challenged the Uni-versity of Mississippi Rebels in The Swamp. At 
7:45 a.m., students were probably nestled in their beds, resting up for a day of tailgating be-fore the 7 p.m. game.
Soon after wiping the sleep from his eyes 
at 6:30 a.m., the 21-year-old UF biology senior set up The Pride of the Sunshine Fightin’ Gator Marching Band rehearsal on Norman Field. He and his fellow drum majors Dustin Ferguson, 
22, and Jonathan Dor, 20, set up their ladders 
and the speakers for the 7:45 a.m. call time.
Their responsibility is to command the 
350-college-student ensemble, lead them as 
they march and direct what they play, when to play and what time to keep. The public sees the Gator Band’s three drum majors conduct, but that’s only ﬁ  ve percent of the job. It falls second to the behind-the-scenes work.
Judkins, a second-year drum major, applied 
for the job in 2013 after serving as one of the saxophone section leaders. He said he loved conducting. He said he loved logistics work.
“I thought that would be the best ﬁ  t for me,” 
he said.
Judkins spends about 16 hours a week on 
the band: eight hours of Gator Band class and equal out-of-class commitments.
Management and practice begin even before 
the semester does. There were 98 hours of unin-terrupted rehearsal this summer. And as friends and roommates came back to school, moved in and enjoyed their last days of freedom, the Gator Band was sweating.
From 8 a.m. to 9:30 p.m., they practiced.“When you’re out there, and it’s a thousand 
degrees outside and you’ve lost about three pounds of sweat that morning, we always tell our new members: All this is worth it,” Judkins said. 
There’s a lot of sweating. The heat lingers 
throughout Fall. The band has indoor music re-hearsal Mondays. It practices the halftime show, which changes each gameday, on Norman Field each Tuesday, Thursday and Friday afternoon.
To get the band ready, they lead a physical 
warmup on the ﬁ  eld. Then, they have a breath-ing gym to train the body to take in more air and release it faster. This leads to a better, louder sound in The Swamp.
It also helps control breathing. Band isn’t like 
football, where you can breathe at any moment. Each breath has to be planned and controlled. Otherwise the music stops. Or musicians will lose oxygen and collapse.
“Your body needs to be trained for that; they don’t call it The Swamp for nothing,” Judkins said. “It’s hot and nasty. The air is thick.”
On game days, they’re the alarm clock to so-
rority row and Cypress Hall. The early call time gives the members several hours, especially on night games, to go home, shower, eat and guz-zle water. They switch their matching orange Gator Band T-shirts and blue shorts for white wool uniforms with orange-and-blue details. Judkins is back at the band hall by 1 p.m., six hours before kickoff, for whatever needs to be ﬁ  nished. He does homework if there’s free time.
Then the fun begins at Gator Walk.  
A Young Musician
In 2001, Ben was a ﬁ  rst grader intrigued by 
the shiny brass alto saxophone in his grand-mother’s basement. His uncle played in high school, and it had been sitting in the case ever since. As much as he urged, he wasn’t allowed to play with the dusty, 20-year-old instrument.
He got one of his own for Christmas that 
year and has been playing ever since.
Music ran in his mom’s side of the family. 
Most of them were singers, so at 3 years old, he followed their lead and began singing in his church’s choir. The saxophone remained a pas-sion, and marching band became a way of life at Paul R. Wharton High School. In ninth grade, he joined the Wharton Regiment and marched for two years before leading as drum major for the last two. In college, his band practice schedule isn’t as strict.
“It doesn’t control your life like it did in high 
school,” Judkins said.
He has been able to branch out and work 
as an undergraduate researcher in a lab at UF Health Shands. More than a third of his life has been spent in marching band, but the biology senior is also dedicated to becoming a physi-cian, maybe a clinician or researcher. He has al-ready interviewed at some top medical schools.
It’s easy to get burnt out, he said. But oddly, 
his best academic semesters are in the Fall.
“You learn to allocate time. You set a sched-
ule,” he said. 
It’s common for members to balance their 
Gator Band responsibilities with classes like animal physiology. Only about 10 to 15 percent of band members are music majors. The most popular majors are engineering and pre-health.
Ferguson and Dor, a UF music education se-
nior and junior, respectively, are actually anom-alies within Gator Band drum major history.
They see being in front of the band as a 
training tool for their future careers. They’re de-veloping good ears, gaining students’ trust and learning the value of teamwork. Dor said these are skills just as important for Judkins’ future as a doctor.“(Judkins is) going to want to emulate the 
same kind of teamwork in his workforce,” he said. 
Doing the Gator Walk
Two hours before kickoff, white-gloved 
Gator Band members gather in the music hall to grab their instruments. Judkins places his blue visor over his feathery brown hair and motions for a group to follow him to the stadium for Gator Walk, the pre-show pep rally.
They’re usually rolling in sweat on the walk, 
he said. He points to his uniform, mostly white with a patch of blue in the middle of his jacket.
“I’m not sweating,” he announced to the 
group. “Let me count how many times that’s happened.”
He smiled wide and made a zero with his 
ﬁ  st, making everyone laugh. 
But Judkins gets serious once it hits 4:35 
p.m. and the football team prepares to make its entrance by Section 25.
“He’s a really good leader,” said John Par-
tin, 21, a UF music education senior and bari-tone player. “His instructions are clear, and he makes us want to do it.”
Judkins blows the whistle, twirls his arm 
and, in an instant, the band plays. He can’t help but smile again to welcome the police and UF football coach Jim McElwain through.
“Le-go,” he said to the group when the last 
person walked through.
An hour before kickoff, the whole band cir-
cles around the bronze gator statue at the north-east corner of the University Auditorium. They play the alma mater and the national anthem. They reacclimate their ears for the intensity of the tunnel.
The drum majors take the lead as the band 
parades down Union Avenue and into the tun-nel through a driveway next to the Florida Gym.
As the band enters the tunnel in rows of 
six, Judkins remembers his ﬁ  rst time being the “most hyped” he’s ever been. It was his ﬁ  rst Gator game. His uniform has been his ticket ever since.
“I’m excited to go,” he said. “It’s not nerves 
anymore. Just adrenaline.”
Running through the tunnel
“Orange!” the crowd screams. “Blue!”  
A Gator video lights up the screen.
Then it’s go time.
They play the full pre-game anthem, the joy-
ous tune that leads the audience to shout “Go Gators!”
Judkins leads the rush onto the ﬁ  eld be-
tween Ferguson and Dor. In the middle, they each kick their right foot up, lean back and land in a semi-split.
From the split, they have about 15 seconds to rush to their respective ladders to conduct be-fore the ﬁ  rst “Go Gators” call. Sometimes the ladder could be 30 or 40 yards away. Judkins’ smile melts into determination as he sprints.
“There’s no pressure because it’s been prac-
ticed so much,” he said. “You forget there’s 40,000 people behind you and another 40,000 in front of you that are watching the band. It comes out at you. It’s your job. It just happens.”
The orange ‘F’ on the back of his jacket 
bounces as he moves to the beat of the alma mater. His head is turned to keep in count with his fellow drum majors. He tunes out every-thing but the performance.  
“When I’m doing my job, it is a job. I am 
a Gator fan, but I’m not there as a fan. It’s a performance. My eyes are constantly on the ﬁ  eld, what’s going on. My head is always going, 
‘What are we playing next?’”
He also has to focus on the drumline, the 
loudest section, to keep on tempo.
“We have a really good relationship with the 
drum majors,” said Eric Lundeen, 21, a UF nu-clear engineering senior and drumline captain. 
“We’re in constant communication across the 
ﬁ  eld.”
A round of applause sends them to the 
stands, where the members pluck their plumes 
and hand them to the Gator Band staff.
At the start of the ﬁ  rst quarter, Ferguson 
takes the headset. Dor takes the script, a time-
line of the game. Judkins stands on the podium. His left knee has a grass stain from his split.
Their chemistry is helpful. They’re alto saxo-
phone players, friends and brothers of Phi Mu Alpha. They have an ongoing groupchat that’s no longer just work related. They each bring a set of skills and their own ﬂ  avor to the job.
Dor ﬂ  ips through the script. One portion of 
a quarter may have a video and two public an-nouncements. Then there’s a 30-second space for the Gator Band to play until the center gets the ball. There’s a song for ﬁ  rst down. There’s a song for getting stopped on third down. If it’s a third down on defense, Judkins has to think ahead: “If we get a stop here, we gotta play this. But what if we don’t get a stop here? Then what do I play?” There’s a lot of A. you play this, B. you play this, C. you play this.
What if there’s a fumble? What if there’s an 
interception? What if there’s a penalty on UF? They try to play after every down.
“In a place like The Swamp, there’s no room 
for awkward silence,” he said. “You have to 
maintain a high level of energy. We try to spur 
(the crowd) on.”
When the second touchdown of the Ole 
Miss game happened moments after the ﬁ  rst, 
the band section ﬁ  lled with cheers and quick 
high-ﬁ  ves.
“My heart, my heart!” Judkins shouted.
Flashing his biggest smile yet, he waves 
a white board Ferguson handed him with a song written on it. To get the band’s attention, 
they mainly use a series of hand gestures. One 
clenched ﬁ  st and a pointed ﬁ  nger means ﬁ  rst 
down. If a drum major points to the “It’s Great to be a Florida Gator” sign, it’s time to play the “Go Gators” call.
“Part of me wants to say it’s a job. It’s a trick 
in my sleeve that I can pull out,” he said. “Like something happens on the ﬁ  eld, we get an in-terception or we get intercepted — that kind of sucks — I can play ‘Go Gators’ and they’ll still 
say it, even if under their breath.”
“Part of me also says I have that impact on 
90,000 people. To turn around and see the en-
tire student section. To see that pocket of sound creating a sound that cascades all over the sta-
dium…”
Four years later, Ben Judkins still can’t ﬁ  nd 
the right words to describe it. You just have to 
be there.The sound of the Gator Nation
Ben Judkins conducts the Gator Band during UF’s win against Ole Miss on Oct. 3 at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. The drum major has directed the 350-student band, along with two other drum majors, for two years.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
Fuchs holds what he calls the best gift he’s received — a graduation 
medal from his alma mater, Miami Killian Senior High School, sent to him by the Association of Hispanic Alumni. Fuchs moved to Mi-ami from Alaska in the ninth grade. The school didn’t have gradua-tion medals when he graduated in 1973.
Photos by Danielle Veenstra 
Alligator Staff 
RIGHT:
After snipping a ribbon to offi-cially open Cypress Hall’s resi-dential dorms, built to accommo-date students with disabilities, UF President Kent Fuchs and his wife, Linda Fuchs, ride an elevator in Cypress Hall to 21-year-old UF 
history junior Jordan Levitz’s ’s 
room on Oct. 30.
BELOW:
Fuchs stares in awe at the Reitz Union renovations for the first time on Oct. 29. He stood in the main atrium in front of an area that will contain two glass eleva-tors. “I more than like it, ” he said. 
A walk in Fuchs’ shoes  
UF President Kent Fuchs flips through mail as he waits for his next appointment, a meeting with UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines. His daily calendar is filled with meetings and events, including weekends. He said he has only been able to participate in his favorite hobby, sailing, once this semester. But when Padron-Rasines talked about future student events, Fuchs whipped out his calendar and made room to try to attend each one.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13 12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015
THE RENOVATIONS 
COST $650,000.
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF informatics and data science re-
searchers now have a new place to call 
home.  
The UF Informatics Institute, which 
aims to enhance data research, held a grand opening Thursday afternoon for its renovated space in the Computer Science 
and Engineering building, Room E251. 
More than 80 people attended.
Previously, the space was an under-
utilized computer lab, said UFII director George Michailidis. Now, it will serve as 
an interactive space for students and fac-
ulty to share their research. The university started renovating the lab in February, Michailidis said. The renovations include 
two student workrooms, four conference 
rooms and a kitchen.“It’s important that we have coffee,” 
Michailidis said about the kitchen.
The Ofﬁ  ce of Research funded $650,000 
for the renovation, said David Norton, UF vice president of research. Data science and informatics student organizations and 
data groups can hold meetings there, and 
others can use it to conduct conferences, Michailidis said.  
Additionally, UFII created two fel-
lowship programs that post-doctoral and graduate students have the opportunity to participate in, and these students will get workstations in the room.
The programs’ applications are still 
open. Only 12 spots are available, said Ale-thea Geiger, who organized the opening.
Gavin O’Leary, vice president of Data 
Science and Informatics Student Organiza-
tion, said he’s interested in applying.
“The data science at UF, especially from 
the Informatics Institute, seems to be blos-
soming right now,” the 23-year-old said.UF institute celebrates 
room’s grand opening 
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
University Police arrested a UF 
student early Thursday morning af-
ter police said he had several knives 
and a bong in his car.
At about 1 a.m. Thursday, Tyler 
Jump, 20, drove near Corry Village 
Apartments and seemed suspicious, 
causing police to pull him over, ac-
cording to a police report.
Jump told police he was nervous 
because he had a .38-caliber revolver in his glove box, according to the re-
port. After Jump stepped out of the 
car, an ofﬁ  cer noticed the handle of a large bowie knife sticking out from under the driver’s seat, according to 
the report.
Police then searched the car after 
spotting a glass bong. They found 
marijuana in the bong and two more bowie knives wedged between the seat and center console, along with a Tramadol pill inside the center con-sole, according to the report. Jump 
is a UF history junior, university 
spokesman Steve 
Orlando said. 
He is listed in 
the UF directory as an employee at 
the Springs Resi-dential Complex for students and 
as a cheerleader 
on the Florida Gator’s website. Po-
lice arrested Jump on charges of pos-sessing marijuana, possessing drugs without a prescription and possess-
ing drug paraphernalia, along with 
three charges of carrying a con-cealed weapon. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail, where he 
was released Thursday evening on a 
$35,000 bond. Police arrest UF student 
with knives, bong in carCRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
On Tuesday, John-Phillip Rogers set up a 
GoFundMe page.
As of press time, he’s raised more than 
$1,300 from nine donors.
The donations came three days after he 
was released from the Alachua County Jail 
on Sunday morning on a $75,000 bond.
Police arrested him for the attempted 
sexual battery of a local woman, but sev-eral of his friends and family refuse to be-lieve the accusation and have donated to the 24-year-old’s page.
“All donations are used to pay BIG Fi-
nancial bills and are needed ASAP,” Rogers 
wrote on the page. He could not be reached 
for comment as of press time.
Aimee Guralnick, 22, donated $15 to 
support Rogers. Guralnick met Rogers in 2013 when she started working with him at the Hunter’s Crossing Publix. Customers made an effort to visit Rogers’ cash register to enjoy his smile and laughter, she wrote in an email.
Guralnick’s heart dropped when she ﬁ  rst heard about Rogers’ arrest because her heart told her he was innocent.
“I just know that if JP gets charged for 
this crime, no justice will be served, and an innocent man will be in jail,” she said.
Mackenzie Selle, 19, watched police take 
Rogers in for questioning. The two have 
been in an on-and-off re-lationship for about three years, she said, and she was in his room Sunday when police arrived.
“I was just in shock 
initially, and then after 
that, I couldn’t stop cry-ing because he doesn’t 
deserve it,” Selle said. She 
added that a Publix customer donated $500 
to Rogers’ online fundraiser.
She said Rogers’ father died when he was 
12, and his mother died of cancer in April 2014. He remained positive, then and now, and currently lives with his sister and her young child, she said. It’s there where, after his release from jail, she said he reﬂ  ected on 
a crime that friends say he couldn’t commit.
“He said to me, ‘I can’t imagine some-
body doing that to my sister,’” Selle said.Arrested man starts GoFundMe
Rogers
THE GROUP IS GATORS 
FOR ALL ABILITIES.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new organization on campus 
is giving students with disabilities 
a voice.
The group is Gators for All 
Abilities, and it’s looking to em-
power UF students with disabili-
ties, said Shannon Marble, the president of the organization.
She said the organization, 
which became ofﬁ  cial this semes-ter, is working to change stigmas surrounding disabilities. Right now, they’re teaching on-campus clubs to be more inclusive and ac-cessible to students with disabili-ties — both physical and mental. The club is also working on cre-
ating a directory of on-campus 
resources for students with dis-abilities.
“I personally felt like students 
with disabilities didn’t really have a voice or an outlet to represent their needs and concerns on cam-pus,” said Marble, a UF health 
education and behavior senior.
The 21-year-old said she be-
came passionate about disabilities 
after she tried to use counseling sessions at the UF Counseling and Wellness Center in the Spring. This was before she was diag-nosed with anxiety and depres-sion.
After trying to make appoint-
ments several times, she said she had to go off-campus for counsel-ing services.
“While the Counseling and 
Wellness Center is a great re-source on campus, some of its re-sources need to be expanded to ﬁ  t the population of UF students that 
need them,” Marble said.  
To make the CWC more acces-
sible, Marble is working to require 
that class syllabi include CWC contact information, along with the Disability Resource Center’s already-present contact informa-tion.
Hannah Lee, the health affairs 
executive adviser for Student Gov-ernment, said students often think the only place they can go for help 
is the CWC.
“If there’s something that (UF 
health care services) could make 
better, it would be marketing cer-tain services and, in general, be-ing more visible to the students,” the 21-year-old international stud-ies senior said.
Lee said students don’t know 
about alternative counseling ser-vices, such as U Matter, We Care, which can help students manage stress and acclimate to UF. U Mat-ter, We Care is seeing four times as many students this semester than during Spring.
“Mental health in general is 
getting more attention than it used 
to,” Lee said. “It doesn’t have to 
be a stigmatized thing.”
Alvin Lawrence, the interim 
clinical director at the Counseling and Wellness Center, said the cen-ter is consistently fuller near mid-terms and the end of semesters.
“The availability of counseling 
services is a pretty common con-
cern on most college campuses,” 
Lawrence said.
Group advocates for disabilities
Jump
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Sperry Van Ness Moecker Realty Auctions11/30/15352 Acre Res Dev't Auction SaleSite: 2600 Fort Lane Rd, Geneva, FL 32732App'd for 44 Res Lots from 1.2-3.9 acresLake Views & access to Lake HarneySubject to Highest and Best Offer w/ LenderApproval +10% Buyer’s PremContact: Keith Kidwell or Will Reynosowww.svnmoecker.com, 954-234-8777, 954-252-1049    11-6-1-5
Mountains of NCLocated near Chimney RockCabin on 2+ acres with loft,stone fpl, large deck, pictwindows, mtn views. Only $154,900Call 828-286-1666    11-6-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
MopedsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $1900
95 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-13-15-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEEDSW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
is now hiring cooks, pizza makers, servers, 
and delivery drivers. Apply in person at 5 SE 
2nd Ave.    11-6-15-12-14
The MIND Study is looking for men and 
women ages 20-30 and 60+. We will com-pare both age groups regarding brain func-tion and how it may contribute to our physi-cal strength, energy and well being. Only 3 visits to our clinic. Compensation provided. Free Parking. Call 352-273-5919    11-10-15-10-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab and follow the directions.    11-13-15-12-14
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with 
reliable transportation. If interested call 
(352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14
Part-Time Assistant Teacher at Millhopper 
Montessori School (M-F 8:30 AM - 1:00 PM). Ages 2-4 program. Starting November 30, 2015. Email mmschool@millhopper.com   11-17-15-9-14Hiring Dine-In Supervisors @ New Dominos on Archer Rd. Host & serve dine-in customers @ 3581 SW Archer Rd Location. PT & FT Flexible hrs. All you need is a smile. Apply @ gatordominos.com    11-19-15-10-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
Gator Moving & Storage Co – HIRINGPart-time – flexibility around class schedulesMust be age 21 or over with valid Florida Drive License and clean recordApply at 1950 NE 27th Ave / 352-374-4791    11-13-15-5-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week! NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    11-6-1-14Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    11-6-1-14
ATTN: DriversAverage $1000+ p/wkBCBS + 401k + Pet & RiderHome For Christmas!$500 Holiday BonusCDL-A Req- (877) 258-8782www.drive4melton.com     11-6-1-14
DriversImmediate Openings Now!Home Every Week, Excellent Pay/Benefits, 100% No Touch Freight,75% Drop & Hook.Class A CDL w/ 1 Yr. Exp. Req.CALL TODAY888-219-8039    11-6-1-14
ACROSS
1 They’re bought
and soled
6 Educational
foundation
10 Lowest part
15 Make like a tree,
facetiously
16 “Uh-huh”
17 Butyl acetate,
e.g.
18 AAEGIMRR
21 Balkan region22 Wild period23 Edible tuber24 __ Plantation,
site of theworld’s largestmaze
26 Sun Valley locale
28 AACDEINNV35 Sea sound36 One of
Suetonius’
“TwelveCaesars”
37 Actor Hawke
38 Youngest March
sister
39 Sent away
42 Make a selection43 “I’ve got this one”45 Wax on an
envelope, say
46 Robert of “The
Sopranos”
47 ADEHLNRTUY
51 Structural
opening?
52 Angler’s prize53 Lack of continuity55 Old painting sites58 More pinlike?62 ILST ... and each
of three other
puzzle clues
65 Not hold one’s
peace
66 Domain
67 Of few words68 Game that may
involve
complicatedshots
69 Mediterranean
feeder
70 Three-layer
treats
DOWN
1 Thick mass2 Rescuer, often3 Marine
propulsion aids4 Heavyweight
champ between
Buster and
Riddick
5 __ citizen
6 Mate’s affirmative7 Garden spots
8 Like-minded group
9 Islamic law
10 Mourning11 “Take me __ am”12 Wait for help,
perhaps too long
13 Genesis creator14 Home of Utah
Valley University
19 Lead ore20 Comedian Foxx25 First place?27 Porkpie, for one28 Advanced tests
29 “What light
through yonder
window breaks?”speaker
30 Other side of “We
Can Work It Out”
31 Like Jameson
whiskey
32 Long time
ending?
33 Heist, say34 Contest form39 “Magic Mike”
feature40 “ ... on the sand, /
__ sunk, a
shattered visagelies”:“Ozymandias”
41 Paige of British
musical theatre
44 Map feature with
an elev.
46 Asthma sufferer’s
relief
48 Boring49 Ale seller50 No longer
bothered by
53 Severe wound54 Dinner for Spot
56 Little case
57 Window frame
part
59 Weary
60 Canadian gas
brand
61 GPS info
63 Is down with64 Zipper opening?
By Victor Barocas©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/06/1511/06/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, November 6, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED! Become a driver for Stevens Transport! NO EXPERIENCE NEEDED! New drivers can earn $800+ per week! PAID LOCAL CDL TRAINING! 1-888-743-1575 drive4stevens.com    11-6-1-15AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    11-6-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    11-6-1-15
STOP paying cable TV now!New program offers free cable TVWatch anything when you want, even new movies and sports 24-hour recorded message 407-454-7654    11-6-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    11-6-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgCPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    11-6-1-16
Compare Medicare Supplement Plans and Save!Call NOW during Open Enrollment to receive Free Medicare Quotes from Trusted, Affordable Companies! Get covered and Save! Call 855-993-5923    11-6-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    11-6-1-16
Oxygen ConcentratorInogenOne - Regain Independence.Enjoy Greater Mobility. NO more Tanks!100% Portable Long-LastingBattery. Try It RISK-FREE! ForCash Buyers Call 1-800-768-4124    11-6-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
24 Pets
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
To The Girl With The Beautiful Blue 
Eyes and Little Blue Eyes:
Has it really been 35 years since that 
first Homecoming together?  Has it really 
been 30 years since we got married?  
Did Little Blue Eyes just graduate in May from UF with honors?  We are so proud!
I can hardly believe my good fortune…
what life has brought me and brought all of us.  How can I thank you?  My love for both of you is “endless” and “to infinity and beyond”. 
In the blink of an eye, a lifetime of 
memories.  There will be so many more. 
Although we will not all be at 
Homecoming this year, my heart will be there…where it all began.  And the story continues.
ILY,Liarface
Happy Homecoming 2015To my Love, Mary Janokaitis!
Letʼs Celebrate the Tradition with 
a great weekend of fun & football 
at Copper Monkey, Swamp, Burrito 
Brothers, Paisanoʼs and more! From Cocoa Beach to the Holiday Inn-University Center, special memories are made every year!  
Love, John
HOMECOMING
2015
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals
 21 Entertainment16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015When she isn't dominating on 
the volleyball court, Florida's Rhamat Alhassan enjoys knitting in her spare time. Read the feature on pg. 18. By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
As Florida started its fi-
nal drive against Vanderbilt in 
2013, the Gators already knew 
the outcome.
But when the clock hit zero, 
the pain sank in.
Already in the midst of its 
worst season since 1979, Flori-
da’s 34-17 loss on Homecoming to the Commodores added more salt to the wound that was the back half of the Will Muschamp 
era of Florida football.
“Beating Florida was our 
Super Bowl,” said quarterback 
Josh Grady, who transferred to UF in May after four years at Vanderbilt.
On Saturday, the No. 10 
Gators (7-1, 5-1 Southeastern Conference) have a chance to rectify that Homecoming loss 
when the Commodores (3-5, 1-3 
SEC) return to The Swamp. 
Kickoff is set for noon and 
will be televised on ESPN.
“We want to come out here 
with some redemption and a chance to get that pride back,” defensive lineman Joey Ivie said.
In less than a year, Jim McEl-
wain has turned the UF football program around.
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
With 10 minutes until tip-
off,  Mike White walked onto the 
O’Connell Center floor for the first time as the new head coach of Flori-da’s men’s basketball team. 
His smile — warm, welcoming 
and contagious — was directed to-wards the student section that had filled up for an exhibition. 
It wasn’t just the first chance 
for the Gators to play a competitive 
game in nearly eight months. It was 
the beginning of a new era, a realiza-tion that ‘this is actually happening’ for White. 
Immediately after the tip, the heat 
of the moment may have under-standably gotten to White, causing him to take off his suit jacket. As the game went on, White grew louder 
and more comfortable on the court. 
This isn’t just the team former 
coach Billy Donovan left behind. 
This is his team now. 
With his hire in May, White is 
back in Florida, but not at the vaca-tion home his parents own in Indian Harbor.
On Thursday, White officially be-
gan the arduous process of replacing a future Hall of Famer in Donovan, who left Gainesville after 19 seasons as head coach to make the profes-sional leap to coaching the NBA’s Oklahoma City Thunder.
He’s been preparing his entire life 
for this opportunity, even if he didn’t know it.
•   •   •
In 1981, 4-year-old Mike moved 
with his family to Missouri. His fa-ther, Kevin, had just taken a job as the head track and field coach at Southeast Missouri State University. 
Kevin raised his five kids to be 
athletes, which pushed Mike to com-pete with his brothers.
“Really competitive household 
to say the least,” he said. “We were all athletes.  There were five of us cramped up together as we were moving across the country several different times. We’d battle in foot-
ball, soccer, basketball, what have 
you, but we had a lot of fun.”
In 1988, the White family moved 
to New Orleans, and Mike became comfortable at Jesuit High.
Describing himself as just an 
“athlete," White had yet to decide whether he wanted to make the en-deavor into basketball.
After little advice from his father, 
who seemingly only warned him not to get into coaching, White decided he wanted to be a basketball player.
A point guard, to be more spe-
cific.
“I would say I’m a little harder on the point guard than the other four positions on the floor,” White said.
“I would also say how crucial it is 
to have good point guard play.”
White had realized the impor-
tance in having a strong ball handler, and it showed in his game.
After starring on the Jesuit High 
varsity team as the team’s starting point guard, White received an ath-letic scholarship offer from the Uni-versity of Mississippi.
He said he never envisioned play-
ing college basketball, and although he still ranks 6th all-time in assists at Ole Miss, he wasn't a stand-out for 
the Rebels.
He averaged 5.2 points a game in 
his senior season — modest numbers 
considering he played and started all but one game that season. 
Upon graduation in 1999, and af-
ter a brief stint playing professionally in Europe, White returned to Oxford, Mississippi, to finish his degree in business administration.
•   •   •
The point guard in Mike tends 
to favor guards, but according to members of the team he’s inherited, White pays equal attention to all po-sitions on the floor. 
“He’s always honest with you, 
he’s always observant of every player, every aspect of the game,” forward DeVon Walker said. “He’s always trying to critique something and give encouragement.”
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Grier suspension sparks conversation
The suspension of Florida quarterback Will Grier brought with it a lot of 
questions. In the aftermath, the subject of numerous inquiries pertained to  the NCAA policy for suspending athletes for performance-enhancing drugs. Read the story on pg. 20. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF men's basketball coach Mike White reacts after a play during the first half of Florida's 89-42 win 
against Palm Beach Atlantic in an exhibition game Thursday in the O'Connell Center. 
A new era begins under Mike White
SEE WHITE,  PAGE 23SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 22FOOTBALL
UF welcomes Vandy 
on Homecoming
The season opens Nov. 13
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain salutes the crowd following Florida's 
27-3 win against Georgia on Saturday at EverBank Field. 18   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015
7327 NW 4th Blvd.
Gainesville, Fl 32607(352) 226-887510am - 10pm
See classified ad forBy Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
If you were to judge Rhamat Al-
hassan just by watching her play 
volleyball, you’d think she were a mad woman.
She’s constantly moving — 
running, jumping or spiking, and sometimes a combination of all three.
But off the court, the nation’s best middle blocker winds down and ﬁ  nds solace in a hobby that re-
quires calmness and patience.
She knits.
Technically, she crochets.“Knitting is two needles,” Al-
hassan said. “Crocheting is one hook.”
The 6-foot-4 sophomore whips 
out her materials — a ball of yarn and a metal crochet hook, which 
is a pointed shaft with a groove on 
the end for threading — whenever she can.
But her teammates and coaches 
can almost always ﬁ  nd her weav-ing items like scarves and hats on the plane rides to away games.
“I just kind of think, ‘hey, you’re 
not doing anything, why not make 
something?’” Alhassan said.
      
Coach Mary Wise remembers 
the ﬁ  rst time she saw Alhassan and 
her needles in action.
It was a year ago on UF’s ﬁ  rst 
road trip while the team was on its 
way to the airport.“I saw her knitting and I had 
no idea,” Wise said, “and I turned around to the back of the bus (and) 
so were the other freshmen.”
Although Wise has yet to knit 
with her, Alhassan said she might make Wise something when she graduates. 
Alhassan laughed at the propo-
sition of knitting with Wise. 
“Maybe one day we’ll get stuck 
in the airport or something, and I’ll coerce her into trying it,” Alhassan kidded.
After more than a year of coach-
ing Alhassan, Wise knows all of her quirks.
Despite her star ability, Alhas-
san is humble. She’s always smil-ing or joking with teammates and has an infectious personality.
Knitting is another facet of it.“(The) greatest thing about it is 
she’s very comfortable with who she is,” Wise said. “Not sure there are a lot of college co-eds out there in this day and age that are knit-
ting.”
      
Rhamat’s afﬁ  nity for knitting Stitch by Stitch: Unraveling Florida’s Rhamat Alhassan
SEE RHAMAT,  PAGE 19She knits in her free timeFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
started with her aunt, who lives 
in Africa and sells the items she makes.
She learned the basics of the 
skill from her, but they quickly 
faded.
“I was 12 and I forgot,” she 
said. “So I had to relearn all that.”
It wasn’t until years later while 
she attended The Academy of the 
Holy Cross in Kensington, Mary-land, that she would pick up where she left off. She said she learned crocheting on her own. 
Since then, she’s hit the ground 
running with the craft. 
Alhassan has knitted items for 
family, friends and teammates.
She’s made senior middle 
blocker Simone Antwi a beanie hat and sophomore setter Abby Deter-ing a pair of boot cuffs.
But Alhassan’s talents aren’t 
limited to clothing accessories. 
Alhassan’s roommate, sopho-
more outside hitter Carli Snyder,  said she’s knitted a whole rug be-fore.
“That’s crazy to me,” Snyder 
said.
Alhassan ﬁ  rst introduced knit-
ting to Snyder on road trips last 
year, but Snyder said she hasn’t 
had the chance to indulge in it this season. 
“She’s the person who expand-
ed my horizons,” Snyder joked.
Because they live together, Al-
hassan’s hobby has worn off on Snyder, who rethought the idea of knitting with her after watching 
her hammer out a scarf and a hat for someone recently. 
“I might actually tag along and 
get started again,” she said. 
Snyder said Alhassan typically 
likes to pull out the needles while 
watching Netﬂ  ix, though she tries not to disturb her when she gets in a zone. 
“We have our own rooms, so 
I’m not always peeking in, taking tabs on her progress,” Snyder said. 
It takes Alhassan about a day to 
ﬁ  nish something like a hat if she works on it periodically through-out the day. 
“There’s a lot of factors that go 
into it,” she said. “The size of the yarn that you’re using, if it’s thin or thick. There’s a lot that goes into it.”
      
Alhassan is a quick learner.She learned volleyball essen-
tially from scrap her junior year of high school after quitting basket-ball.
Though she said she would still 
play basketball if she could, vol-leyball presented a new and wel-coming challenge to her.
“It was just newer (and) there 
was more to learn,” Alhassan said. “I will stand by this to the day I die that learning volleyball is so much harder.”
The transition has been seam-
less, though. 
As a freshman last year, Alhas-
san led the country with a .458 season hitting percentage. The Southeastern Conference Fresh-man of the Year was also an AVCA All-America Second Team selec-tion. This year she’s pacing the na-
tion in blocks per set (1.76). To this point, Alhassan has totaled 281 career total blocks and is well on her way to challenging Benavia 
Jenkins’ school record of 601 set in 
2003. 
Alhassan’s ability to absorb 
knowledge like a sponge has also fueled her ﬁ  re to teach her team-mates how to knit. One of those is sophomore defensive specialist Sam Dubiel.
“She took it upon herself to 
teach us how to knit,” Dubiel said. “I would say she had to be a little bit more patient with me because I would struggle sometimes.”
Other players want no part of 
the needles.
Antwi said she hasn’t knitted 
with Alhassan before and doesn’t have any plans to.
“I just don’t have the patience,” 
she said. “I like watching her do it, but I think one time I pretended I wanted to do it and then I was like, ‘eh.’”
Detering and Snyder, who both 
played overseas in Europe with Alhassan last summer, said they don’t think of Alhassan the vol-
leyball player when they hear her 
name. 
Instead, they picture Alhassan 
as the multitalented young woman from Glenarden, Maryland. 
“Everybody sees her as this re-
ally impressive volleyball player and maybe it’s because we live together, (but) she is just the cool-
est person,” she said. “She does 
so many really cool things that it’s not even the ﬁ  rst thing I think of.”RHAMAT,  from pg19
Patrick Pinak / Alligator Staff
UF middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan knits before practice on 
Oct. 21 in the Lemerand Practice Facility. 
20   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015
Your City . Your Art Museum.
ARTIST PANEL + BOOK SIGNING
Sunday, November 8, 2:30 p.m.
Jerry Uelsmann, Evon Streetman, Robert Fichter and Doug Prince 
MUSEUM NIGHTS: COMMUNITY CONVERSATIONS 
Thursday, November 12, 6 - 9 p.m. 
Art activities, performances and refreshments  
FAMILY DAY: SHAPING IMAGINATION 
Saturday, November 14, 1 - 4 p.m. 
Tour the contemporary art exhibition and create a 3-D 
immersive world with geometric shapes and colors.
 
FREE ADMISSION  
harn.ufl.edu
FOOTBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
“So I took an over-the-counter supple-
ment that had something in it.”
Will Grier’s story is one that almost every-
one in Gainesville knows by now. 
The redshirt freshman quarterback was 
suspended on Oct. 12 for a full calendar year 
for violation of the NCAA’s performance-en-hancing drug policy. 
Grier and UF are in the process of appeal-
ing the suspension.His story stirred the emotions of the en-
tire Gator Nation for days following the an-
nouncement of his suspension, most fans 
disgusted with his fate. 
But lost in the ruckus about Florida’s 
season being in jeopardy and comparisons of Grier’s fate to that of former Florida State quarterback Jameis Winston is the oppor-tunity for a discussion about the severity of Grier’s punishment — a punishment that is potentially career-ending for a college ath-
lete.
The NCAA warns student athletes that 
supplement manufacturers are not well regu-lated, so sympathy for Grier isn’t really mer-
ited. 
What his situation does merit, however, 
is a conversation. 
But right now, nobody seems to want to 
have it. 
Kain Colter and Ramogi Huma, two well-
known activists within the National College Players Association, never responded to re-quests for comment for this story. 
Neither did the UF Athletic Association, 
which only passed along the original story about Grier’s suspension and said it was “the only statement we have on this topic.”The conversation should center around 
the punishments that the NCAA levies 
against its athletes, not just for performance-
enhancing drugs, but for anything. 
And to start such a conversation, one 
ought to begin by comparing Grier’s sen-tence to the NFL’s punishment for the same offense. 
In late 2012, former Florida standout de-
fensive end Jermaine Cunningham was also caught using performance-enhancing drugs. 
As a member of the New England Patriots, 
Cunningham was suspended for four games QB’s suspension fuels conversation on NCAA’s PED policy
SEE GRIER,  PAGE 21FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   21
by the NFL in accordance with the 
league’s performance-enhancing drugs procedures. 
The former Gator’s estimated 
salary for that year was $540,000, 
meaning that he’d miss out on 
about $135,000. 
That’s no chump change to be 
sure, but four games for a player making six ﬁ  gures is unlikely to be career-ending.
For Grier, missing a full 12 
months can have a different and possibly more severe consequence. 
He’s missing the rest of his red-
shirt freshman year, and by the time he comes back next year after Week 6, there will presumably al-ready be an established starter. 
Grier will likely have a tough 
time dethroning whoever is atop the depth chart in the middle of the season, meaning that one and a 
half years are down the tube. 
But Grier is lucky in a sense.
If his suspension stands, he’ll 
regain eligibility halfway through his redshirt sophomore year.
If he so chooses, he could still 
play up to two-and-a-half more seasons of college football, giving NFL scouts opportunities to see 
him in action.
Others conceivably might not be 
so lucky. 
A 12-month performance en-
hancing drugs suspension for a 
junior running back who was just seeing the ﬁ  eld for the ﬁ  rst time pretty much means game over for that player’s hopes of making it to the next level. 
Going back to Grier, the NCAA 
drug testing manual states that supplements can be laced and are not to be trusted. Florida coach Jim McElwain said that the coaches 
echo this sentiment to their play-
ers.
He’s not alone. 
      
“I did not check with the medi-
cal staff before taking it.”
Frank Battle, a freshman wide 
receiver at the University of Con-necticut, said the coaching staff is 
very clear about the use of over-
the-counter supplements. even at a smaller D-I school like UConn.
“It’s really strict over here,” he 
said. “When all the freshmen came up here, they told us about all that and they warned us.”
The question becomes not 
whether or not to punish, but what 
the severity of said punishment 
should be. 
Timothy Vollmer, a member 
of UF’s department of psychology who specializes in applied behav-ior analysis, said suspensions are an effective form of punishment. 
Vollmer pointed to Major 
League Baseball’s steroid epidemic 
being somewhat quelled as the re-
sult of suspensions. 
“What we don’t know,” Vollmer 
said, “is if a one year suspension has any different effect than a three or four game suspension or a ﬁ  ve or six game suspension.”
Determining suspension length 
ultimately falls under the jurisdic-
tion of the different sports leagues. 
In professional leagues, like the NFL, the league decides along with 
the player’s association, which is why the NFL’s suspension rules for ﬁ  rst-time performance enhanc-ing drug offenses are considerably 
shorter than the NCAA’s.
NCAA athletes have no col-
lective bargaining rights, so the 
length of their suspensions is de-termined entirely by the powers of the NCAA. 
The issue of collective bargain-
ing and compensation in college sports has gained a lot of traction 
lately, sparked by Kain Colter and 
his attempt to unionize the North-western football team in 2014.
While Colter’s efforts have been 
stopped cold by the National La-bor Relations Board’s decision to decline jurisdiction in the matter — effectively ending Northwest-ern’s unionization bid — the can 
of worms that he opened in the 
public eye is one that has been and will continue to be contentious.
Part of that stems from differing 
opinions on the issue of collective bargaining and compensation in general. 
There are some, like ESPN’s Jay 
Bilas, who say the NCAA shouldn’t 
be allowed to proﬁ  t from the like-
nesses of athletes without the ath-letes themselves seeing some of that dough. 
There are others who want the 
athletes to get paychecks straight-up. 
There are others still who say 
the NCAA regulations regarding 
“improper beneﬁ  ts” need to be 
changed. Some also say that they don’t want payment, opting in-stead for guaranteed health coverage and scholar-ships.
And all of those 
things could at least be talked about 
honestly if players 
had some form of recourse beyond people in their own univer-sities tasked with mak-ing their lives easier.
      
“I really 
hope that peo-ple can learn from this, learn from my mistake.”
Dr. Charles Yesalis, 
a retired Penn State endocrinologist with an expertise in ana-bolic steroids, said that if Grier’s story of accidentally taking an over-the-counter sup-plement is true, there re-
ally shouldn’t be so much 
cause for concern. 
“Steroid substitutes 
over-the-counter, in my strongly held opinion, don’t do anything,” he said, add-ing that while that may be true in his mind, supple-ments can also be laced.
“It is well established, 
that is it is not rare — nor did I say it is common — but it’s certainly not rare for over-the-counter supplements to be laced with real anabolic agents that absolutely could cause you to ﬂ  unk a drug test,” Yesalis said. 
The process, according to Yesa-
lis, involves “ﬂ  y by night” compa-nies that spring up, lace their prod-ucts with anabolic agents, don’t 
label the products as containing 
anything illegal, and then eventu-ally get caught and go into hiding, eventually starting up a new busi-ness under another name.
“It’s like whack-a-mole trying 
to catch them.”
With such ambiguity surround-
ing what exactly Grier tested posi-
tive for (and in what concentra-
tion), it is impossible to determine whether or not his year-long sus-pension is fair.
Battle said that his own opinion 
on the matter was to reduce the se-verity of the punishment.
“I feel like whenever the play-
er commits the offense, it should 
be, like, the rest of that season. If 
he did it, like, half the season, he shouldn’t be allowed to play the rest of the season,” he said.
But his and every other player’s 
opinion is as relevant as anyone else’s outside the NCAA (read: not relevant at all).
While the athletes of the NFL, 
MLB and other professional sports leagues have some of their own looking out for their best interests, NCAA athletes do not. 
Cost of attendance stipends, 
which pay for everyday college expenses like food and laundry in addition to tuition, are a nice thought, and surely student ath-
letes will beneﬁ  t from them. 
However, the student athletes 
themselves are still victims of a 
system that often times unfair-
ly proﬁ  ts from the likenesses 
of players without letting play-
ers proﬁ  t themselves. 
While any profes-
sional athlete can 
potentially make 
millions by sign-ing a sponsor-
ship deal with a 
company like 
Nike or Un-
der Armour, 
college ath-letes can’t. 
Nor can 
they do 
things like 
sell their own 
autographs or 
game gear. 
Their uni-
versities, of 
course, can. 
And maybe that’s the 
way it should be, but per-
haps some players feel dif-
ferently. 
With that in mind, it’s 
time to have a conversa-
tion -- not just about 
Grier’s suspension, 
but about the rights 
of student athletes 
everywhere to have 
a say over what they 
can and can’t do. 
“I’m really, really 
sorry to everyone. Just 
really sorry.”GRIER,  from pg20Grier was suspended for one year 
22   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015
improve its services for 
future Gators and earn $$$Help the University of Florida
improve its services for 
future Gators and earn $$$
Keep an eye out for an 
invitation email to 
participate in a NIH study 
following 
University of Florida’s 
Class of 2015 in their 
transition from college to 
work.Up to $30 for each survey 
you complete (each under 
20 minutes)Help the Help the Help the Help the University of FloridaUniversity of FloridaUniversity of FloridaUniversity of FloridaThe same Gators team that 
went a combined 11-13 over the 
last two years is now 7-1 and re-
turning to national prominence.
A win on Saturday books their 
ticket to Atlanta and the SEC 
Championship for the ﬁ  rst time 
since 2009.
And while the Gators are fac-
ing a Vanderbilt team that once 
again ﬁ  nds itself near the bottom of the SEC totem pole, McElwain 
is not underestimating what the 
Commodores bring to the table.
Led by second-year head coach 
Derek Mason, Vandy boasts one 
of the top defenses in the nation.
The Commodores are holding 
opponents to just 18.5 points per 
game and have allowed just three opponents to score more than 
three touchdowns in a game.
They hold opponents to just a 
25.2-percent third-down conver-
sion rate — top in the SEC and ﬁ  fth in the country — and have forced 38 three-and-outs this year, tied with Missouri for third 
in the conference and trailing 
only Florida (42) and Alabama (50).
“They expect to make that 
third down stop, you can just tell,” McElwain said. 
“I think that’s a credit to 
Derek and what he has done. They’re doing a great job and I 
don’t think there’s a coach that’s 
played them that would say any-thing other than that.”
But just as Vanderbilt looks 
to make plays, Florida expects to win.
Under McElwain, the Gators 
are no longer playing not to lose, something that plagued them un-
der former coach Will Muschamp.
They expect more out of them-
selves.
“We’re tired of losing,” se-
nior linebacker Antonio Morrison 
said. 
“We’ve been losing these past few years. This new staff came in and we had open ears. … We want to listen what they’re 
preaching. And we’re listening 
and that’s why we’re doing well right now.”
With Saturday on the horizon, 
the Gators feel ready.
They haven’t lost at home this 
season.
They don’t plan on losing now.And if it all plays out, the 
Gators will still have everything in front of them.
But in the end, they’ll be fo-
cusing on the present, which 
starts with Vanderbilt.
“We can accomplish some-
thing each week and it really 
doesn’t matter who you are play-ing,” tight end Jake McGee said. 
“We as a team have really from 
the beginning wanted to show people what we are made of and what we can do. I think regard-
less of the opponent that needs to 
be our focus and our goal."FOOTBALL,  from pg17The Gators haven't played in the SEC title game since 2009
FLORIDA FOOTBALL’S LAST FIVE HOMECOMING GAMES
2014: Missouri 42, Florida 13
Missouri’s Marcus Murphy scored touchdowns on a kickoff return, 
punt return and a rush while UF quarterbacks Jeff Driskel and 
Treon Harris were sacked six times and had ﬁ  ve turnovers.
2013: Vanderbilt 34, Florida 17
Vanderbilt executed on four Florida turnovers, scoring touchdowns 
on all three of Tyler Murphy’s interceptions, doubling up the Gators on the scoreboard despite having just 183 yards of offense.
2012: Florida 27, Louisiana 20
Trailing 20-13 in the waning minutes of the game, Florida scored two touchdowns in the ﬁ  nal 1:42 of the game. Jelani Jenkins sealed it by returning a blocked punt 36 yards to the end zone with two 
ticks remaining.
2011: Florida 26, Vanderbilt 21
The Gators took a 17-0 halftime lead and never looked back. Jeff 
Demps carried UF’s offense, rushing for 158 yards and two scores.
2010: Mississippi State 10, Florida 7
A pair of missed ﬁ  eld goals by Chas Henry — from 38 and 42 yards — resulted in Florida’s demise against the Bulldogs, who scored all 10 of their points in the ﬁ  rst quarter.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   23
Walker said one of the notable 
differences between his former coach 
and White is that his new coach will scrimmage against the team -- com-petitively. 
“‘I’ve seen him play pickup,” Walker said. “That was the most surprising thing. I’ve never seen a head coach play pick up. He’s actu-ally pretty good. Don’t tell him I said that. He’s a ballhog, though.”
The Gators plan to unveil a more 
up-tempo offense this season, and White is leading by example to mo-tivate the players to compete with intensity.
Although it admittedly is tough 
to play for a coach who the players didn’t initially sign with, redshirt senior Alex Murphy, whose older brother, Erik, played four seasons under Donovan, said White’s atti-tude and personable approach have made the transition seamless. “From the first day he got here, 
he’s been great. He’s a very likeable person,” Murphy said. “Right off the bat, he was really cool with all of us and he took the time to get to know a lot of us on a deeper level. The first couple of weeks, he really tried to get to know us. And obviously, we’ve been in the gym with him a lot. The 
transition has been really smooth.”
When it comes to remaining fo-
cused, redshirt senior Dorian Finney-
Smith, the unquestioned leader of the Gators, said his experience with White so far has been nothing but positive. Finney-Smith said he talked to Donovan and that talk made him trust the hire. 
“I trust Coach D and he told 
me they were going to find a great coach,” Finney-Smith said. 
“He’s going to help me with my 
dreams.”
•   •   •
Mike has followed in his father’s 
footsteps, despite the paternal advice he received in his youth: Don’t get into coaching.
“My dad tried to talk me out of 
coaching early on, but it really, as a lot of coaches will tell you, it’s not work to me. It’s a passion,” White said.
“I love the game, I love being 
around it, and to be paid for what we do, it’s like stealing.”
Despite being the latest coach of 
the Gators, Mike’s father is still more 
renowned in NCAA Division I athlet-
ics.After completing his Ph.D. in 
higher education administration at Southern Illinois University, Kevin did postdoctoral work at Harvard, but still had a passion for athletics.
He worked his way through the 
ranks before he earned the job of a lifetime: athletics director at Notre Dame University.
Now at Duke University in the 
same position, the White family has made it a priority to visit the state of Florida once a year. It’s the only place White has felt entirely at home.
It’s arguably why his wife Kira 
and their five children implored Mike to “hold out” until a job close to home opened up. It’s part of his family-first approach.
“He’s really a family-oriented 
person,” redshirt sophomore center John Egbunu said. “He’s down to earth, he cares about us, he cares the 
program, he cares about the team 
and getting us better."
And now, his family includes 16 
players and a coaching staff, many of whom remained loyal and followed him to Gainesville. 
With the first game under his 
belt, an 89-42 win in Thursday's ex-hibition, White’s dream has become 
a reality. 
“I’ve dodged committing to talk-
ing to certain institutions in particu-
lar, but we have had interest, my wife and I, because of the success that we’ve had,” White said.
“Us being patient for the right 
one, it’s ended up that we’re in a place we’ve been dreaming about for 
a long, long time.”WHITE,  from pg17White's UF career began with a 89-42 exhibiton win on Thursday
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF coach Mike White talks with redshirt freshman Brandone Francis-Ramirez during the first half of 
Florida's 89-42 win against Palm Beach Atlantic in an exhibition game on Thursday in the O'Connell Center. 
24   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2015
EXCLUSIVE AMENITIES
 PREMIUM RESIDENCES
A REFLECTION OF YOU
Spring Leases
Available
Special $699 Promotion
