VOLUME 109 ISSUE 112 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Selma through the Alligator archives
Check out our coverage of the march from 1965, pg 8.  
Florida ban on climate change phrasing sadly not a joke
Read our editorial, pg 6. The Florida Museum of Natural History 
hosted a rock collection event
Curious kids asked scientists questions, pg. 5. 
The UF women’s 
golf team ﬁ  nished 
the SunTrust Gator 
Invitational in second 
place. Read the story 
and see more photos 
on page 14.
82/62
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffMoney in Your Purse
Becky Richey, a 20-year-old UF international studies junior, rehearses lines from Shake-
speare’s “Othello” on Sunday afternoon. Richey, who plays the role of Iago and is a mem-ber of Shakespeare in the Park, was preparing for a performance today at 12:35 p.m. on Turlington Plaza. The group will also be performing at 7 p.m. Thursday through Saturday on the Plaza of the Americas.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police charged a local man 
Friday who investigators believe set a re-
tired UF professor’s house on ﬁ  re after killing and stealing money from him.
Ofﬁ  cers arrested Stephen Underwood 
Jr., 38, late Thursday in Jacksonville in connection with the murder of Thomas Oakland, 75, a retired UF education pro-fessor. Authorities said he ﬂ  ed to the city after reportedly beating Oakland to death and setting Oakland’s house on ﬁ  re.
Oakland had been giving large amounts 
of money to Underwood, who is unem-ployed and does day labor, since the two met in 2013, said GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in a press release.
After being swindled out of more than 
$37,000, Oakland realized he was a vic-tim of fraud and contacted GPD. He told police he knew Underwood was stealing money from him, but he “just wanted to be a good Christian and help a poor man get back on his feet,” according to the re-lease.
Oakland told police he was not con-
cerned about Underwood stalking or ha-rassing him but requested last month that Underwood be trespassed from his prop-erty, according to the release.
Gainesville Fire Rescue ofﬁ  cials found 
Oakland’s body Wednesday afternoon Man arrested in connection 
with former UF professor deathCAMPUS
OLIVIA VEGA
Alligator Contributing Writer
By the year 2020, it is estimated there will be 1.4 million 
computing jobs with only 400,000 computer science students to 
ﬁ  ll them, according to Code.org, a nonproﬁ  t aiming to increase minority participation in computer sciences.
The organization also found that while 57 percent of bach-
elor’s degrees are earned by women, only 12 percent of those are for computer science.
UF is focusing on not only bringing in more science, tech-
nology, engineering and mathematics students but also work-ing to attract more female students. UF President Kent Fuchs said in January during his speech at the Engineering Leader-ship Summit that this responsibility rests with major research institutions like UF.
However, he said the College of Engineering has already 
made strides in diversity.Donna Winchester, the UF strategic communications direc-
tor, wrote in an email that the College of Engineering boasted a 25.5 percent female enrollment in 2013, when the national aver-age was 19.9 percent.
That same year, 23.1 percent of undergraduate engineering 
degrees went to women, when the national average was 19.1 percent. This is the latest information from the American Soci-ety for Engineering Education, she said. UF working to keep women in computer science
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
Campaigning for Santa Fe College 
Student Government elections began 
last week, bringing with it the hope of 
a more successful future.
Candidates will be running for 
leadership team positions — Student 
Body president and vice president, 
treasurer and chief justice — for the 
election running from March 23 to March 25. 
Student Senate President Jeremy 
Pierce said he urges students to evalu-
ate candidates based on their ability 
to lead.
“Next year will be transforma-tional for Student Government and 
all the leaders involved,” he wrote in 
an email. “The importance of ﬁ  nding capable and competent leaders has never been more important than it is 
now.”
Conor Flynn and Hannah Gwynn 
are running in the United Party, cur-rently unopposed, for Student Body 
president and vice president, respec-tively. Their goal is to be more con-nected with students.
Flynn said he thinks that connec-
tion is something SG lacks.
A 19-year-old freshman and Stu-
dent Government director of fund-raising, Flynn said he believes the “ar-SFC campaigning begins 
for upcoming SG election
SEE SFC, PAGE 4SEE WOMEN, PAGE 4
SEE FIRE, PAGE 4News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 112 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
84/63THUNDER-
STORMS
86/65THUNDER-
STORMS
87/64PARTLY 
CLOUDY
87/63SUNNY
82/62
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Application for Federal 
Student Aid (FAFSA) at www.fafsa.ed.gov. UF’s 
“on-time” deadline to re-
ceive the results of your FAFSA from the federal processor is March 15. 
Students should complete 
a FAFSA well before March 15 to ensure that the federal processor has time to ana-lyze and send the results of 
your FAFSA to UF Student 
Financial Affairs.
Be a Game Changer Video 
ContestSTRIVE at GatorWell, the Women’s Student Association and Student Government’s Health 
Affairs Cabinet are excited 
to unveil our “Be a Game Changer” video contest. Help educate UF on how 
to intervene to end sexual 
violence. What better way to teach than by doing? So show us your best bystand-er scenarios in a public ser-
vice announcement video 
format, and you could win up to $550 in UF Bookstore gift cards. Deadline for 
submission is March 15. 
For official rules and eligi-bility, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
Take Back the Night
The Office of Victim Services, in collaboration with STRIVE and other 
campus organizations, 
is looking for an artist to use his or her gifts toward making a creative stand against sexual violence. 
Take Back the Night is 
an annual event to “shat-ter the silence” of sexual violence. It will take place 
April 1. They’d like to see a 
student help develop a 3-D art piece that can be used in promotion of the event, as well as in the aftermath as 
a visual reminder of how 
the Gator community takes a stand against sexual vio-lence. If this project inter-
ests you, please email vic-
tim advocate Annie Carper at atannekcarper@ufl.edu or send a Facebook mes-sage.
Can You Dig It?
Dig into geology and dis-cover the Earth at your feet. 
Enjoy hands-on activities 
and watch demonstrations of volcanic eruptions from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets TuesdaysTalking Gators meet today at 
5:45 p.m. in Room 1301 of the 
Entomology Building off of Natural Area Drive, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum 
of Art. For more information 
go to talkinggators.toast-mastersclubs.org. Talking Gators is also on Facebook. The mission of Toastmasters 
is to provide a supportive 
and positive learning experi-ence in which members are empowered to develop com-
munication and leadership 
skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth. All are welcome.
Creative Writing Club
Do you love to write? Do you want to improve your writing skills while making 
new friends? Then come to 
the Creative Writing Club every Wednesday at 3 p.m. in Matherly Hall, Room 014. Meetings involve reading 
and responding to a short 
story written by a member of the group and then discuss-ing the story with the whole 
group with a focus on con-
structive criticism. There are no requirements to join; just come and have fun with us.
Queer Women Empowerment 
NetworkLife is tough for college stu-dents, especially when strug-
gling with a queer identity 
as a woman on top of work, classes and internships. Finding opportunities to socialize with other queer 
women and release stress 
is hard. LGBT Affairs is of-fering a weekly discussion group that will connect you 
with other queer ladies in the 
area to chat, hang out and learn more about yourself and others. It is 7:30 p.m. ev-ery Wednesday in Peabody 
Hall’s Rainbow Room.
Survivors of Violence Art 
Exhibit submissionsAlachua County Victim 
Services and Rape Crisis Center is seeking art submis-sions for the 2015 Survivors of Violence Art Exhibit held 
April 24 to 30 at the Civic 
Media Center and Wild Iris Books in Gainesville. Survivors are encouraged 
to submit original artwork 
of all forms, including per-formance pieces. For more information, please call 352-264-6763.
Apply Now for 2015-16 
Financial AidTo apply for 2015-16 finan-
cial aid, complete the Free at the Florida Museum of 
Natural History. Explore 
the museum and check out 
displays and activities on geology, fossils, gems, min-erals and much more from Florida and around the 
world at this free event for 
all ages This event is pre-sented by the University of Florida Department of 
Geological Sciences and the 
Florida Museum in collabo-ration with the Gainesville Gem and Mineral Society and additional community 
sponsors. Food from High 
Springs Orchard and Bakery will be available for pur-chase. For more information, 
call 352-273-2064.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s news-
paper, please submit the 
event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter above events, and keep them to 150 words or few-
er. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper. 
CORRECTION 
A letter to the editor from 
U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio said in the signature that Rubio is 
a U.S. representative. Rubio 
is a senator.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqMONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
CRIME
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org 
Gainesville Police arrested two local 
men late Saturday night after they report-
edly threw Ecstasy out of their car during a traffic stop.
At about 11 p.m., authorities stopped 
a gold Infiniti at a gas station, located at 1300 West University Ave., for not using headlights. The driver, Robert Okeia Bar-nett, 27, immediately got out of the car and tried to walk away, according to a police report.
Officers found a sock outside the pas-
senger’s side of the car, according to the report. 
Inside the sock, police found a brown 
rock-like substance and six clear-white capsules with a brown substance. 
Both substances, each weighing less 
than 15 grams, tested positive for Ecstasy, according to the report.
The car’s passenger, Khalil Keari Bar-
nett, 18, told police Robert Barnett threw the sock out of the passenger window during the traffic stop, according to the report.
Robert Barnett told police he had been 
taking Molly every day since his mother passed away, and both men admitted to being currently under the influence of the drug, according to the report.Both men said they knew what was in 
the sock but that it did not belong to either of them.
Police charged both men with traffick-
ing in Ecstasy and tampering with evi-dence.
Officers took both men to the Alach-
ua County Jail where Robert Barnett re-mained as of press time in lieu of a $35,000 bond, and Khalil Barnett remained as of press time in lieu of a $20,000 bond.
Two men arrested for Ecstasy trafficking during traffic stop
 IT WILL BE DOWNTOWN.
LINDA SORIANO
Alligator Contributing Writer
The owners of Gainesville’s 
newest restaurant and bar said 
they aim to bring a big-city vibe and a happier happy hour to lo-cals.
O.A.K., which stands for Origi-
nal American Kitchen, will fea-ture gourmet southern comfort 
foods like shrimp and grits and 
bison burgers, as well as vegetar-ian and vegan options.
Ryan Prodesky, vice president 
of marketing for the 101 Man-agement Group, which manages the restaurant, said O.A.K. will serve locally sourced, organic and GMO-free ingredients.
The restaurant will be replac-
ing Ichiban Sushi, at 15 SE First Ave., and plans to open mid-March for lunch, dinner and 
happy hour. After 10 p.m., O.A.K. 
will allow only those who are 21 or older.
The bar will also feature 18 
self-serve taps with 14 choices of craft beers and four whiskeys, Prodesky said.
Customers can purchase a full 
beverage by loading a card from 
the restaurant with a certain dol-
lar amount and inserting it into the reader. The tap machines dis-pense up to 32 ounces at a time.
Prodesky said he plans to work 
with student organizations and graduate school organizations as well as young professionals in the Gainesville area to host events like whiskey-tasting classes, paint-your-own-beer-glass night, food-and-whiskey pairing classes and live music.
“We really want people to 
come in and just enjoy a social setting, reconnect with friends, grab a good meal and some good 
beers,” Prodesky said.
Danielle Berry, area manager 
of O.A.K., said the bar will have 
board games, a life-size Scrabble game and a shuffleboard table.
“We are very excited to be do-
ing this project in downtown,” Prodesky said. “I think downtown has a ton to offer, and, hopefully, 
this is a catalyst to really give 
downtown an entertainment feel and attract people down here.”
New restaurant to bring southern food and whiskey barA 2008 study published in the Harvard 
Business Review found that about 52 per-
cent of women working in science, engi-neering and technology leave their jobs due to hostile work environments, like adverse 
male culture and isolation.
A follow-up study in 2014 showed the 
reasons haven’t changed much.
Fuchs said the college has put effort into 
creating a welcoming and supportive cli-
mate for women, and some female engineer-ing students are experiencing it firsthand.
Michelle Palumbo, a UF computer sci-
ence freshman, said she loves her major de-
spite how intimidating the male-dominated 
field is at first.
“You get to UF, and you realize how en-
couraging the staff and faculty are, especial-ly the advisers,” Palumbo, 19, said.
Sara Lichtenstein, 20, said there are about 
six to eight women in her data structures and algorithm course, a core class for com-puter science majors, in which about 200 are 
enrolled.
“It’s the ratio I was expecting,” the UF 
computer science sophomore said. “It’s not 
as scary as everyone thinks it is. Gender or not, it shouldn’t stop you.”
Winchester said UF’s College of Engi-
neering has a female dean, two female asso-ciate deans and numerous award-winning female faculty members, like Linda Parker 
Hudson, who received an honorary doctor-
ate in science from UF.
The college also offers various clubs and 
programs specifically for young women such as Women in Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Society of Women En-gineers.
Palumbo said she hopes to one day pur-
sue a career in software development.
“Personally, I would try to ignore it, es-
pecially the oppression from peers that are males who are trying to make me feel bad because I’m a woman,” Palumbo said. “It’s important to keep yourself encouraged and to keep working hard.” IT WILL OFFER COFFEE, TEA 
AND LOCAL PASTRIES.
NICOLETTE HOFFMAN 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville’s newest locally owned 
specialty coffee shop opens Saturday on 
West University Avenue.
Know Where Coffee specializes in lo-
cal coffees and loose-leaf teas. The coffee 
shop will also sell homemade, organic 
pastries from Gainesville-based Beark-ery Bakery.
Bakery owner Fred Posner said the 
bakery’s motto is using ingredients a person can pronounce.
Posner’s wife, Yeni Monroy, bakes all 
pastries and breads from scratch before being shipped.
“Fred and Yeni have the same men-
tality we have about local ingredients and how food and beverages should be all natural,” said Deyanira Romero, a UF alumna and marketing manager of 
the coffee shop. “Once we tried the bak-
ery’s selection it was a no-brainer to offer them in our coffee shop.”
At the shop, brewed coffees and teas 
— as well as cold brew coffee — cost $4. An espresso is $2.75. 
Romero’s fiance, Alfonso Guerrero-
Villa, also a UF alumnus, owns the store.
“Alfonso and I hope our customers 
taste the difference in the way local cof-fee and pastries are prepared,” she said.
Rodrigo Guerrero-Villa, the owner’s 
brother and a barista for the cafe, is a UF food and resource economics senior. 
“I think we will be introducing a new 
way to experience coffee,” the 21-year-old said. “I am excited to bring this to Gainesville” 
The coffee shop is hosting a cupping 
session this Saturday, hosted by Bold Bean Coffee, a Jacksonville-based coffee roasting company.4, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Pictured is the Know Where Coffee front sign, which is located on West Uni -
versity Avenue. The coffee shop will open Saturday.
UF alumni to open coffee 
shop close to campus
The former professor taught education and was a Fulbright scholar 
after they responded to a fire in 
Oakland’s home, located at 1921 SW Eighth Drive.
The morning of the fire, a 
neighbor saw a man matching Underwood’s description drive to Oakland’s home in a beige or silver sedan and enter the house. 
Authorities suspect Under-
wood, who knew Oakland kept cash in his home, entered the house, hit Oakland with an un-known object until the professor was unconscious, then set fire to the house. 
Flames were contained in Oak-land’s home office, but there was heavy smoke damage throughout 
the rest of the house.
Authorities declared the in-
vestigation a homicide investiga-
tion Thursday afternoon when an 
autopsy revealed that Oakland 
died from blunt force trauma to 
his head and body and was likely dead before the fire started. 
Underwood’s wife, Sherry Un-
derwood, 48, told police her hus-band left their home in a beige or silver sedan before the time of the fire and returned hours later. He then changed his clothes and told her they were leaving town.
Before leaving, the two paid for a new cellphone and a hotel room in cash. 
Sherry told authorities Ste-
phen had a bag with a large amount of cash at the time but generally did not have access to 
large amounts of money.
Tobias said Sherry will most 
likely not be charged with any 
crimes because it appears she was not involved in the murder or fire.
About 10 p.m. Thursday, au-
thorities, including GPD investi-gators and the Jacksonville Sher-iff’s Office, found Underwood on Duval Road, near Interstate 95 in Jacksonville. He initially ran away from of-
ficers but was arrested on charges 
of murder, burglary of an occu-
pied dwelling, grand theft and arson of a structure or dwelling, Tobias said.
“I don’t think Underwood 
would be in those handcuffs we promised him without the hard work from each investigator as-signed to this case,” he said.
Officers took him to the Duval 
County Jail where he remained as of press time with no bond.
Oakland lived alone in the 
house, police said. Before his re-tirement from UF in May 2010, he taught classes in law and ethics in psychology and psychoeduca-tional assessment during his time 
at UF, according to the UF faculty 
website.
A 1988 Fulbright Scholar, 
Oakland was a visiting professor 
in four countries and consulted 
with multiple schools and law 
firms across the country.
Larry Lansford, the director 
of news and communications for the College of Education, said Oakland was one of the most polite and genuine people he worked with in the college.
“He was a world-class schol-
ar,” Lansford said. “This is such a shock for everyone here.”
FIRE , from page 1Meet and greet held on Tuesday
guing and drama” within SG 
over the past two semesters prevented it from addressing issues students face.
While he and Gwynn said 
it is impossible to rid SG of all drama, the candidates hope to work with others to minimize it.
“It’s going to be what the 
students need, what the 17,000 Santa Fe students want,” Fly-nn said.
Timothy Bergman and Jus-
tin Deese are running against each other for treasurer.
No candidates are running 
for chief justice, who oversees 
judicial review, similar to the 
U.S. government. 
Sen. Wallace Mazon said a 
vacant chief justice seat could 
cause issues if no one is avail-able to oversee a judicial re-view.
In the event of a vacant seat, 
Student Body President Aus-
tin Browning said SG would 
likely form a chief justice se-
lection committee.
Earlier this semester, Inter-
nal Affairs Director Benjamin Myers told the Alligator he 
was running for Student Body 
president. 
He is not currently running 
because he was unable to find 
a running mate.
Browning said he thinks 
the lack of competition may 
prevent Flynn and Gwynn from having the initiative to 
work beyond the minimum re-
quirements.
“Pressure makes dia-
monds,” said Browning.
Nonetheless, Browning, 
who has worked closely with the candidates, said he be-
lieves the duo will be a great 
choice.
Sen. Lucas Jewell said their 
lack of involvement in Senate 
in recent months may be an is-
sue. 
He said anyone running for 
Student Body president and vice president should be con-
nected to and understand Stu-
dent Senate.
Last semester, Flynn served 
as an at-large senator but 
stepped down this semester to 
focus on his duties as the fun-draising director. 
Gwynn is the Student Body 
parking, transportation and 
safety director, a position she’s 
held since September.
Students can speak with the 
candidates at 10 a.m. Tuesday 
in the S breezeway during a 
meet and greet.SFC , from page 1WOMEN , from page 1UF beats national averages 
for women in STEM majorsALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer afisher@alligator.org
Ellen Martin expected to be 
standing alone at her table of rocks 
Sunday afternoon. Instead, Martin, a UF professor 
of paleoceanography and paleocli-
matology, spent three hours in the Florida Museum of Natural Histo-ry examining rock collections and answering the continuous ques-
tions of curious children as part of 
the “Ask a Scientist” event. 
“This is awesome,” Martin said. 
“The kids are really impressive.” 
Amanda Sullivan, the UF Col-
lege of Arts and Sciences assis-
tant director of development, said 
events like this one expose local children to fields within the sci-
ences. 
“It’s a great way to get younger 
generations involved,” she said. 
The “Ask a Scientist” session 
was a prelude to “Can You Dig It?” where people can watch volcano 
and earthquake demonstrations and view gem displays for free 
from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday at 
the museum.
Jeremiah Clement has been col-
lecting rocks since he was about 3 years old. 
His mother, Christina, drove an 
hour and a half so Jeremiah, now 11, could ask Martin questions 
about a portion of the thousands 
of rocks accumulating in a corner of their home just south of Palatka. 
He opened his metal case of 
rocks for Martin to sift through, pointing out his finds from North Carolina. 
“It’s fascinating to see differ-
ent minerals and all the different 
forms and shapes,” said Jeremiah, 
a sixth grade home-schooled stu-dent. “And it’s a lot funner to find 
them.” 
Then he examined the rocks 
sprinkled across the table, one of the dozen children who ap-
proached the table to ask questions and identify types such as granite, pumice, quartz and amethyst. 
Martin said she loved showing 
the collection because it’s so hard to find these rocks in Florida. 
Christina Clement watched 
over Jeremiah as he learned about 
new kinds of rocks. 
“I’m so glad they have this,” 
she said. “It’s wonderful.”MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Alyssa Fisher / Alligator Staff
Jeremiah Clement (left), 11, shows his rock collection to Ellen 
Martin, a UF professor of paleoceanography and paleoclimatol-ogy, in the Florida Museum of Natural History as part of the “Ask a Scientist,” event Sunday afternoon.
CAMPUSRock collection event for curious kids
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer
cvianna@alligator.org
Kelsey Naylor has been 
waiting for an apology for a 
long time. 
It’s been nearly a year since 
she was fired from the Citi-
zen’s Co-op along with three 
other members — the catalyst to a legal battle that made its way to the National Labor Re-lations Board. The members, represented by the Gainesville Industrial Workers of the World, reached a settlement with the co-op in early Febru-
ary, and with it came a public 
apology. 
“We at Citizens Co-op have 
made mistakes in the past, but have recently been working to rectify them,” read a post on the co-op’s Facebook page on Feb. 24. “We are officially and publicly apologizing for termi-
nating the unionized workers: 
Kelsey Naylor, Ryan O’Malley, Sylvia Arnold, and Teresa Bur-lingame.”
Naylor regards the settle-
ment, which offered her and the other employees reinstate-ment and $10,000 of back pay, with cautious optimism. 
“Personally I’m glad that 
some kind of settlement was reached,” she said. “I don’t think it totally makes up for what happened, but it defi-nitely is a step in the right di-rection.”
Part of the payment will be 
made via installments while the rest will be in the form of store credit. Naylor said none of the employees, including herself, plan to take their jobs back.
The co-op also apologized 
for the initial firing of two long-standing employees, Julie Ma-theney and Kathy Whipple, ac-cording to the Facebook post. 
The dismissal of those two 
workers led Naylor and six others to unionize. They im-properly used the store’s email database to send out a message 
about unionizing. Five of the 
workers refused to cooperate with an internal investigation and were consequently fired. The dismissed workers then filed a complaint with the Na-tional Labor Relations Board accusing the co-op of firing them for wanting to unionize.
Naylor and Thomas 
Hawkins, the chairman for the co-op, said the discussion that led to the settlement was ami-cable. 
“It has been a distraction 
from focusing on what we do best,” Hawkins said. 
Naylor said she would not 
discourage people from return-ing to shop at the co-op, but she wouldn’t actively encour-age them just yet. However, she said she is hopeful that the new management team will run the store as a cooperative rather than a corporation. 
“With that many great peo-
ple involved, I’m hoping it’ll reach that,” Naylor said.Citizen’s Co-op offers 
apology, back pay to dismissed workersEMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
University Police arrested a Stephen 
C. O’Connell Center security guard early 
Wednesday after he reportedly filmed the UF Dazzlers changing from inside their dressing rooms.
After the group’s performance at the Tues-day night UF men’s basketball home game against the Texas A&M Aggies, members of the UF Dazzlers went into a dressing room to change clothes when they noticed a red Asus smartphone under a chair leg, according to a police report.
When the dancers looked at the phone, 
they found a 19-minute recording that showed them getting dressed and undressed. The vid-eo also showed the phone being placed under the chair before the dancers entered the room to change, according to the report.
The dancers recognized the picture on the 
phone’s home screen as an O’Connell Center security guard, whom police later identified as Sachin S. Mokashi, 25.
Mokashi, who is also a UF student earning 
his master’s in computer engineering, was as-signed to watch the dressing room during the game. After his arrest, he admitted to leaving the phone under the chair with the intention of filming the dancers dressing and undressing.
UPD spokesman Maj. Brad Barber said al-
though University Police has dealt with video 
voyeurism in the past, this is the first time in 
recent memory the UF Dazzlers have been victims.
Police arrested Mokashi on charges of bur-
glary and trespassing as well as six counts of video voyeurism. Officers took him to the Alachua County Jail, where he remained as of press time in lieu of a $120,000 bond.
Police: UF employee charged with voyeurism of UF Dazzlers
JORDANNE LAURITO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students will now be able to learn about 
and experience the Panama Canal while walk-ing between classes.
The Panama Canal Trail opened Feb. 27 in 
a series of exhibits celebrating the 100th anni-
versary of the Panama Canal’s completion. 
Frank Townsend, a UF professor emeritus 
of civil and coastal engineering, designed the 
trail with help from the UF Panama Canal Mu-seum Collection, on the third floor of Smathers Library. Townsend, born near the canal, said it was only logical to take on the project.
“The Panama Canal is being celebrated 
through art and history, so I wanted to do something for the engineering side,” he said.
The trail, a one one-hundredth scale of the 
actual canal, is about a half mile and spans from the Plaza of the Americas to outside the Reitz Union. It is marked by blue stickers on the ground and signs that feature pictures and information provided by UF’s special collec-tions on Panama.
Lourdes Santamaría-Wheeler, the exhib-its coordinator at Smathers Library, said she hopes the trail will highlight for the special resources UF offers on the topic.
“The government has the official records, 
but we have more personal records, like peo-ple’s diaries and photographs,” she said. 
Stephanie McComber, a UF international 
studies junior, volunteers with the Panama Canal Museum Collection, digitizing the re-sources in the library to make them available for online research.
McComber, 20, has lived in Panama, and 
said the trail reflects the magnitude of the ac-tual canal, as well as the country’s small size.
“The canal gets overlooked sometimes, I 
think,” she said, “but it’s important because it connects not only waterways but also the people around them.”Smathers recreates Panama Canal for 100th anniversaryThey were filmed undressing
“The Panama Canal is being 
celebrated through art and history, 
so I wanted to do something for the 
engineering side.”
Frank Townsend
UF professor of civil and coastal engineeringReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
Fla ban on ‘climate 
change’ phrasing 
sadly not  a joke
Still a little sore about how the gubernatorial elections turned 
out in November? Upset over the re-election of a man who personally invoked the Fifth Amendment 75 times in rela-
tion to his role in the largest Medicare fraud case in U.S. history? 
Believe us, we understand. We’re still not OK with it, either. 
Luckily, there’s a silver lining hanging around the idea of anoth-er four years of Rick Scott in office — the promise that his barely concealed, contemptuous and insane policies will be revealed, to our shock and awe. 
Such is the case this week. In a report from the Florida Cen-
ter for Investigative Reporting, former employees of the state’s Department of Environmental Protection have said once Scott’s regime took power they were banned from using the terms “cli-mate change,” “global warming” or even “sustainability.” 
It’s a policy that’s misguided, nefarious and, in many ways, 
just straight-up creepy, so it’s right up Scott’s alley. 
Denying the consensus of 97 percent of scientists in the state 
that will be most affected by rising sea levels and extreme weath-er goes beyond irresponsible and verges on lunacy. There’s a reason the South Miami City Commission voted to secede from the state of Florida — Tallahassee refuses to acknowledge the imminent reality and dangers of climate change.
Of course, the DEP’s press secretary denied these claims, and 
there’s no paper trail to trace. Officially, the policy doesn’t ex-ist. But the ample number of DEP employees who claim it does suggests otherwise. Their claims are bolstered further once you look at them in the context of Scott’s persistent, dismissive de-nial of climate change while in office. In August, there was a par-ticularly telling incident where Scott met with five of the state’s 
top climate scientists. After hearing 30 minutes of appeals, Scott 
asked them where students of climate science get jobs and left. 
If true, this unwritten policy is Scott’s personal brand of a na-
tionwide campaign against the concept of climate change. The movement reached an absurd climax a few weeks ago, when Sen. Jim Inhofe brandished a snowball on the Capitol floor, mak-ing the astute observation that “it is very cold out.” Inhofe’s case against the existence of climate change is based on the existence of a snowball in February. His logic runs directly against a near-
ly unanimous conclusion made in research in the last three de-
cades and makes about as much sense as trying to prove world hunger isn’t a problem because you were able to get a burrito while you were in Chipotle. 
Inhofe’s stunt would be laughable if he weren’t the chairman 
of the Senate’s Environment and Public Works Committee. Rep-resentatives opposed to the idea of climate change have vari-ous justifications for their views — religion (Inhofe believes it’s wrong to say anyone other than God can affect climate), profit 
margins of energy companies and an interpretation of the Amer-
ican Dream as an infinite number of steaks and SUVs play a part. 
But you’d think institutions like the DEP would be exempt 
so it could, maybe, protect the environment. Florida’s attempt to censor the DEP is far more sinister than a snowball.
160 TOTAL VOTES47% Blue/black
53% White/gold
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgFriday’s question: What 
color is the dress?Today’s question: Spring Break 2015: Sunburned or 
frozen? Fifty years after Selma: Where are we?
Saturday marked the 50th anniversary of the Sel-ma march for equal voting rights on the Edmund Pettus Bridge. To commemorate this monumental 
event led by Martin Luther King Jr. on March 7, 1965, President Barack Obama and his family, along with members of Congress, made a symbolic walk across the bridge.
After all this time, the bridge is still there. But has the 
fight been won, or is it sill as pertinent as it was that day half a century ago?
Undoubtedly, the quality of life for black Americans 
has improved since that infamous “Bloody Sunday.” For one thing, the voting rights that King so fervently, if pacifically, fought for were finally granted that same year in the Voting Rights Act of 1965. 
Where there once was segregation of both public and 
private institutions such as department stores, restau-rants, schools and universities, including our very own, today all are granted equal rights to those — by law, that is.
The fact that, despite legislation and humanitarian 
effort, discrimination still exists is a pill that is hard for many to swallow. It is much easier to believe that everyone is treated equally, and that the struggles that plighted us before are long gone. 
But the truth is different. As humans, we are wired through primitive instinct 
to make quick judgments of the world around us. Some associations instilled through years of prejudice and poor logic have proved difficult to let go of.
Many say those of us who voice our concerns about 
the racism and prejudice that is still alive and affecting the lives of many in all walks of life are merely exagger-ating, driven by the crowds.
Some believe that these accusations are just the result 
of altered viewpoints fueled by isolated incidents, but the alarming disparities shown through statistics say otherwise.
Michelle Alexander, a civil 
rights litigator and scholar, published a book recently ti-tled “The New Jim Crow: Mass 
Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness.” In it she details the phenomena concerning the disproportionate number of African-American and other men of color in-carcerated in American prisons. 
She believes it is a result of a societal repression per-
petuated by a second-class status these men have found difficult to escape. 
According to Alexander, the government has had 
a great deal of influence in this, using a so-called war on drugs to accommodate traditional and new forms of discrimination. This was meant to extend, rather than extinguish, a great wrongdoing on a great percentage of our citizens.
In our nation, many are in a state of denial as to what 
really goes on in the everyday lives of our fellow citi-zens. 
The incidents of recent times are, in fact, proof that 
there is still a tremendous amount of work to be done for the cause of equality. We like to think violence and death are results of prejudice that is part of a distant past. 
In reality, if we do not take stock of our predicament 
and take action, the future will remain as bleak as ever.
At this point the issue may seem trite and cliche, one 
we hear about everywhere we go. But I think if it’s still being talked about, clearly the words are falling on deaf ears. Until we see our efforts come to fruition we will be having the same conversation time and again. King and his followers made great strides on that day, but their march is far from over.
Sol Angel Canal is a UF English junior. Her column ap-
pears on Mondays.MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORSol Angel Canal
opinions@alligator.org MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 7Blanket generalizations detrimental to creating productive on-
campus dialogue
When J Street U at UF was asked to endorse the vigil in memory 
of three Muslim students murdered at UNC Chapel Hill, our Execu-
tive Board unanimously gave its support. As an organization which 
supports a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict — one 
Israeli, one Palestinian — we were shocked to find ourselves accused of supporting the “systematic murder of Muslims in Palestine and the Middle East” and as an organization that “actively perpetuates Is-
lamophobia,”  as Students for Justice in Palestine’s op-ed accused last 
week. Those hurtful statements reflect a deep misunderstanding of the principles for which J Street U stands. The piece also made a num-ber of blanket statements that fail to distinguish the nuances between different Jewish and pro-Israel organizations, which have different 
strategies and missions. Our organization, J Street U, is the student 
organizing arm of J Street. We strongly support the well-being and self-determination of the Palestinian people, as well as Israel’s future as a Jewish, democratic state.
In fact, if one were to take a closer look at J Street U’s policies, 
they would discover that J Street U has released statements criticizing Israeli policy toward Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza. Our organization is dedicated to inclusivity and encourages students of all backgrounds to participate in advocating for a two-state solution.  We 
denounce human rights abuses and do what we can to promote peace 
and security for all. SJP’s allegations are profoundly offensive.
One of J Street U’s immediate priorities is to halt the expansion 
of Jewish settlements over the Green Line, and we actively condemn 
the advancement of Israeli construction in the West Bank.  J Street 
U believes that these unilateral actions systematically undermine the potential for a future Palestinian state — the establishment of which is vital to the security and freedom of both Israelis and Palestinians. 
Though J Street U is not an explicitly nor exclusively Jewish organi-
zation, the Jewish community plays a crucial role in  affecting change in Israel and the Palestinian territories. We, therefore, advocate for the two-state solution within the community, encouraging our peers and leaders to think critically about both Israel’s future and the rights of 
the millions of Palestinians currently under Israeli control in the West 
Bank.
At J Street and J Street U we often speak out on questions of politics 
and policy.  However, we do not and will not capitalize on the trag-edies of any community for “political gain.”  We will continue to dem-
onstrate our support for and solidarity with the Muslim community 
when they face hostility due to religious or political beliefs.
Blanket statements made about groups surrounding the conflict 
only lead to deepening arbitrary and unhelpful divides on campus. 
They do nothing to improve lives of students on campus or people 
around the world.
For those in the community uncertain about or unfamiliar with our 
work, we invite you to come speak with us. Come to our events. By all means, tell us where and why you disagree with us — we welcome 
discussion and debate. We would simply prefer to be criticized for 
beliefs we actually ascribe to — and not for rumors, myths or miscon-ceptions.
Please direct any questions to JStreetUF@gmail.com
Rachael Cain
President and Co-Founder 
Alyson Samach
Co-FounderLetters to the Editor
I’m a runner. In no way am I a professional athlete or anywhere close. I don’t do very well on teams either, so I wanted to choose 
a completely individual sport with minimal human interaction. Running seemed like my cup of tea.
I also like running because the risk for seri-
ous life-threatening injury is so low. About the worst that could happen when I go out for a run is that I trip over a crack in the sidewalk and tweak an ankle or skin my knee. A Band-Aid and an ice pack, and I’m good to go.
But for most other sports, especially gym-
nastics, the risks are far more serious.
On Feb. 27 I watched as University of Ken-
tucky gymnast Shelby Hilton landed on the 
back of her neck coming out of a series of tum-
bling moves while she performed her floor ex-ercise in the Stephen C. O’Connell Center.
Generally, I am not a religious person, but at 
that moment I prayed for Hilton and her fam-
ily. 
While I try my best to keep the skin on my 
knees intact, Hilton and her teammates, along 
with every other practicing gymnast, are risk-
ing their lives by participating in this sport. 
The worst that could happen during a gym-
nastics routine is that you break your neck.
After Hilton stopped her routine and medi-
cal staff raced over to help her, the crowd at the O’Connell Center was silent. 
It took more than 20 minutes for medical 
personnel to place a neck brace on Hilton and 
wheel her off the floor to a waiting ambulance. 
In those moments, the ESPN cameras panned 
over to Hilton’s teammates.
I’m not sure if the cameras caught them at 
the wrong moments or not. Whatever the case, they did not seem upset. 
They were talking and smiling almost as if 
nothing was out of the ordinary. It was like the potentially life-threatening accident suffered by one of their teammates was an everyday oc-
currence.
I was shocked.
As a sports fan since the earliest days of my 
awkward adolescent years, I’m accustomed to the rituals that follow when a player is injured 
during a competition and is unable to get up 
under his or her own power.In football, members of both teams take 
a knee on the sidelines out of respect for the injured player. In basketball, teammates sur-round the player until medical staff is ushered 
over. In soccer, injuries are so frequent that 
players actually complain about them to the referees. Injuries don’t go ignored.
But gymnastics is not like any other sport. 
There is a very good reason why there are so 
few gymnasts in the world. Not everyone can 
do what they do, and not everyone should.
Just think about it: Gymnasts do back flips 
off of 4 inches of wood. They soar as high as 
15 feet in the air over stick-thin fiberglass bars. 
Not to mention the dreaded vault, where 
gymnasts propel their bodies into the air and 
hope to God their blistered feet touch the ground on the other side.
Gymnasts are by far the world’s most im-
pressive athletes. This explains the reactions of Hilton’s teammates after her fall.
They weren’t being inconsiderate. I’m not a 
gymnast, so I could be wrong, but sometimes I feel like gymnastics is 10 percent physical and 90 percent mental. 
It seems to me like the gymnasts who per-
form the best every night are the ones who are 
always on top of their game mentally.  
Of course Hilton’s teammates care for her 
well-being, but by dissociating themselves 
from the accident they were saving their own 
necks. 
To be unfocused or afraid in gymnastics 
is like crossing a busy street with your eyes 
closed. They had no choice but to focus their attention on the remainder of the competition.
There is an ugly truth about sports: They can 
save lives as well as end them. In gymnastics, a career could be over in a heartbeat, but that is a risk gymnasts are willing to take.
Personally, I think I’ll just stick to my 
tweaked ankles and skinned knees.
Erica Brown is a UF journalism junior. Her 
column appears on Mondays.The ugly truth: Sports can come 
with unavoidable safety risksColumn
Erica Brown
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015
WORLD
Hillary Clinton used private 
email for government business
During her time as secretary 
of state, Hillary Clinton used a 
personal email account for gov-ernment purposes. Even though 
it was not illegal, using hdr22@
clintonemail.com violated 
Obama administration guidance 
and undermined his pledge of historic transparency. Clinton 
has yet to explain why she took 
the unusual step of using her 
own server and eschewing a U.S. 
Department of State email ad-dress. 
Last year, Clinton provided 
the State Department with 55,000 pages of emails after the depart-ment asked her and other for-mer secretaries for records that 
should be preserved. Yet her ad-
visers alone decided what would 
be turned over and should not, without any outside control or clarity on the process they used.
Vowing never to give up, rela-
tives mark MH370 anniversary
Family members of those 
aboard the plane wore symbolic 
T-shirts and released white bal-loons Sunday as they marked the anniversary of the jet’s disap-pearance.
Gatherings were held in 
Kuala Lumpur, where the ﬂ  ight departed on March 8, 2014, and in Beijing, where it was headed when it vanished with 239 peo-
ple aboard. Despite an intensive 
yearlong search, no trace of the 
Boeing 777 has been found.
“My daughter asks me ev-
ery day, ‘Where is Daddy? Why 
isn’t he answering his phone?’” 
a teary-eyed Kelly Wen from 
China, whose husband was on the plane, said at a gathering at a Kuala Lumpur mall to mark the 
anniversary.
The more than 100 people 
who gathered wore white T-
shirts with the picture of an air-plane and the words “Search on.”
US report finds racial bias in 
Ferguson police
A Justice Department inves-
tigation found sweeping pat-
terns of racial bias within the Ferguson, Missouri, police de-partment, with ofﬁ  cers routinely discriminating against blacks by using excessive force, issuing petty citations and making base-less trafﬁ  c stops, according to law enforcement ofﬁ  cials familiar with its ﬁ  ndings.
Federal ofﬁ  cials found that 
black motorists from 2012 to 2014 were more than twice as likely as whites to be searched during traf-ﬁ  c stops, even though they were 26 percent less likely to be found carrying contraband, according to a summary of the ﬁ  ndings.
The review also found that 
blacks were 68 percent less likely than others to have their cases dismissed by a municipal court judge. And from April to Sep-tember of last year, 95 percent of people kept at the city jail for more than two days were black.  
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
LOCAL
Gainesville City Commission 
made the ﬁ  nal approval for an ordinance that bans selling syn-thetic drugs, including Spice and bath salts.
Loblolly Boardwalk was re-
opened after it was closed for repairs in May. The boardwalk, from Northwest Eighth Avenue to Northwest 16th Avenue at around Northwest 27th Terrace, has new decking and rails.
A Gainesville woman was 
arrested after she was accused of waiting several hours to seek help for her toddler after he died from a morphine overdose in July.
— ALLIGATOR STAFFUnplug for SB? Read 
up on what you missed SELMA
Through the alligator ArchivesMONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
all over the place
MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
UTW Furnished Condo 4bed 4bath W/D all 
utilities, on short bus route to UF 1yr lease starting August 15 $375/mo per student. 352-586-6468     3-9-15-10-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    3-24-15-15-1
Housing for Homeless Veterans!
Volunteers of America offers housing for 
homeless veterans or those at risk of becom-ing homeless in a warm and supportive envi-ronment. If you or anyone you know may ben-efit from our program, please contact Woody at 352-642-8313 for more information. 
Two bedrooms with all utilities included!    
3-17-15-7-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs$685 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-22BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  
Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. 
Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294   
3-13-15-12-2
1 BR / 1 BR - $650/month incl. utilities
Oaks Condos - behind mall / Starbucks6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable 1st floor unit. Lots of parking.Easy walk to mall, dining, RTS bus stop.On-site gym, pool, laundry facility.Contact (352) 219-5351 for info.    3-17-12-2
1BR/1BA CONDO FOR RENT.
W/D, fireplace, new appliances. Off 13th St., 
Creekside Villas. $600/mo. 352-870-0488    
3-9-15-5-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-
3901    3-26-15-15-2
HOUSE - 4BR/2BA
Available 8/1. Lawncare, W/D, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. Drive by, see flier. 
$1400/mo. Call 352-256-8370 or 373-1558     
3-12-15-5-2
5 BEDROOM,3 BATH HOME.
WALK TO CLASS!
ASKING $2,850 TOTAL.
CALL JOHN @ 561.866.8234
FOR FURTHER DETAILS.
3-13-15-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
UNIVERSITY HOUSE 2BR/2BA APT(for re-let) 5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent in-cludes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $525/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-13-15-10-3$455/mo. 1BR/1BA currently available (ASAP). Great location Center Point Apts. 1220 NW 12th St. Lease ends on July 31st. Text or call 904-662-9065    3-13-15-4-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SCHOLAR’S HAVEN.Grad, post-doc, prof. Contemp. furn. house in woods 1 mi. north of UF. W/D, piano, wifi, prkg. $425+util.262-3957. or mardavis03@yahoo.com    3-13-15-5-4
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 20143630 N MAIN STwww.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $99995 Pontiac Bonneville $130092 Ford Crown Vic $1999352-338-1999                 4-22-71-1297 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
3-9-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
12, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with
a love for children to staff its
summer camp program.
Positions in the camp are available in our
elementary school age day camps and
some half-day specialty camp programs.
Summer Dates are June 8-July 24 and
day camp employees
must be available for all dates.
For a complete listing of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interested applicants should submit a
resume to Buffy McTureous via e-mail at
bmctuerous@oakhall.org by March 13th.
Interview information regarding
group interview on March 14th
will be sent out upon receipt.
3-13-15-10-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Help Wanted10-15 hrs per week in AlachuaPredominantly Farm/yard maintenance$12/hr cash3522583571      3-10-15-5-14
Psychological assistant psychometrician
wanted for private practice.
Will require
1-2 months unpaid training to qualify
for 36-40 hour position at 10.50 per hour
minimum 1 year commitment. perfect for
someone wanting experience b4 grad 
school. Send vita to info@cpancf.com
3-16-15-7-14ACCOUNTING ASSISTANTSWe are looking for accounting graduates or 4th or 5th year accounting students who have or are taking tax/audit. Earn while you learn while working with CPA learning mate-rials. Assist with customer support, research, critical reading, technical advising for video learning, special projects, editing and more.
Our employees have a great success rate 
of passing the CPA on the first try. Flexible schedules. Please apply online at www.gleim.com/employment or contact HR @352-375-0772 ext 122.     3-20-15-11-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors
Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Clean/Maint., Drivers. Apply today at 
suncountrysports.com/jobs.html!
3-17-15-7-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – August. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com3-13-5-14
looking for a reliable office/home/apartment cleaner with own transportation and valid license/insurance w/ a good background record and drugfree... background checks and drug tests will be ran.... paying $8/hr if interested please call 352-214-0868    3-13-15-5-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Shop Local. Shop SmallSmall Business Craft ShowMarch 14, 2015; 10 am to 3 pmCymply Fresh/Cymple Room5408 NW 8th Avenue        3-13-13-20
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Designated drivers are the greatestTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
"Guinea Keets and chicks for sale! Keets 
starting at $3.70, as low as $1.70, chicks as low as $1.10. 717-340-1034 or www.ChickensDirect.NET"    3-13-10-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Emily Glaser and UF 
women’s golf ﬁ  nished in second place in their lone home tournament. Read more on page 14.  Tennis Recap
The UF women’s tennis team started Southeastern Conference play 3-0. The men’s tennis team opened SEC play 1-2. Divers head to NCAA  Zone B Diving Championships
Seven UF divers (ﬁ  ve women, two men) travel to Athens, Georgia to compete in the three-day NCAA Zone B Diving Championships. JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Richie Martin found life with his bat on 
Sunday.
In UF’s series ﬁ  nale against Maine, the 
junior shortstop went 3-for-4 at the plate — including a double and a triple — to help the Gators take a 5-3 win at McKethan Stadium to 
sweep their third weekend series of the year.
“I’ve been scufﬂ  ing a little,” Martin said in 
a release, “but that’s how baseball goes. I’m 
glad today went well.”
Florida (14-2) jumped out to a quick 1-0 
lead in the ﬁ  rst inning on a Buddy Reed RBI single to center ﬁ  eld and never looked back.
The next inning, Martin ripped an RBI sin-
gle to give UF a 2-0 lead, and Florida added two more runs in the fourth on a Josh Tobias RBI double and a JJ Schwarz sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  y.
Maine (4-12) added three runs over the 
next three innings to cut Florida’s lead to 4-3 through seven innings, but the Gators held ﬁ  rm, retiring the Black Bears’ ﬁ  nal six batters in order to seal the deal. 
Freshman Mike Rivera closed out scoring 
with an RBI double in the eighth inning.
Dane Dunning improved to 4-0 on the 
year after giving up just four hits and one earned run in ﬁ  ve innings of work.
The sophomore right-handed pitcher 
struck out three of the batters he faced.
On the season, Dunning has a 1.29 ERA 
and is holding opponents to a .139 batting av-erage — the lowest among UF’s starters.“I wasn’t conﬁ  dent in my stuff last year,” 
Dunning said in a release. “Now I’m more conﬁ  dent and I’m able to do my own thing. 
Last year I would say I was thinking too 
much. I was always in a rush, trying to do ev-
erything so fast.”
The Gators continue action with a two-game series against Fairﬁ  eld on Tuesday 
and Wednesday before starting Southeastern Conference play against Tennessee on Friday.
Series notes: Junior outﬁ  elder Harrison 
Bader missed Sunday’s game with a sprained 
ankle. ... Florida’s defense did not commit an 
error throughout the series. Maine commit-ted seven in the three games. … While UF outscored Maine 16-4 in the series, the Gators left 29 runners on base in the three games. … 
Florida’s starting pitchers gave up just two 
earned runs and 11 hits in 18.2 innings of 
work this weekend, earning a collective 0.99 
ERA.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Richie Martin bats during Florida’s 22-3 win against Rhode Island on Feb. 14 at McKethan Stadium. The No. 4 Gators de-feated Maine 5-3 on Sunday to sweep its third weekend series of the season.
UF baseball sweeps Maine following win on Sunday
It’s only ﬁ  tting that the Gators women’s bas-ketball team’s season 
ended in a 71-49 blowout loss to Auburn in the ﬁ  rst round of the Southeastern Conference Tournament on Wednesday.
That’s the way Florida’s 
season went and it’s what the players 
unfortunately had to get used to.
The season is over for the Gators — 
there will be no NCAA tournament, not even the WNIT.
And if the Gators get in-
vited to the Women’s Col-lege Basketball Invitation-
al today, I doubt they’ll go.
Because there is no 
more room for disappoint-
ment this season – Florida has experienced too much of it.
So the Gators will ﬁ  nish the season 
with a 13-17 record, the worst record Gators feel disappointmentINSTAGRAHAMJOHNSON’S JOURNAL
LEXINGTON, Ky. — Two and a half 
hours had passed since Kentucky beat Florida 67-50 to make history, the ﬁ  rst 
power conference team since 1976 to ﬁ  nish a regular season undefeated, 31-0. 
A stadium custodian asked me a simple 
question as I sat near the baseline typing: 
“Who won?” 
I imagined he was the only man, woman 
or child in the state without the knowledge readily available.
And even if he didn’t know, with the way 
this season has gone, it wouldn’t make an ass out of you or me to assume the Cats did what they’ve done so many times over.
Saturday was, in 
every way, a Ken-tucky coronation. 
Legendary coach 
Adolph Rupp’s son was in attendance.
UK super fan 
Ashley Judd stayed 90 minutes after, 
sat in John Calipari’s press conference and took pictures with her husband at midcourt Kentucky not done yet after 
perfect regular season ﬁ  nish
SEE COLUMN, PAGE 15SEE WHOOPS, PAGE 15“I wasn’t conﬁ  dent in my stuff 
last year. Now I’m more conﬁ  dent 
and I’m able to do my own thing. 
Last year I would say I was thinking 
too much. I was always in a rush, 
trying to do everything so fast.”
Dane Dunning 
UF pitcher
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311
RichardJohnson
twitter: @RagjUF14, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Senior Camilla Hedberg swings during the second round of the SunTrust 
Gator Invitational on Saturday at the Mark Bostick Golf Course.
Aaron Albright / Alligator
TOP: Freshman Taylor Tomlinson putts during the second round of the SunTrust Gator Invita-
tional on Saturday.MIDDLE: Sophomore Karolina Vlckova high fives coach Emily Glaser during the final round of 
the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Sunday.BOTTOM: Sophomore Maria Torres swings during the second round of the SunTrust Gator 
Invitational on Saturday.Aaron Albright / Alligator
Justen Rosenberg / Alligator
JUSTEN ROSENBERG
Alligator Writer @JustenRosenberg
For a golfer, it is important to maintain 
a high level of confidence. 
If you’re not confident in your swing, 
chances are you will find yourself unsuc-
cessful on the course.
As of now, the confidence of the 
Gators women’s golf team is higher than it has been all season, as the team finished second place in this weekend’s SunTrust Gator Women’s Invitational, placing in the No. 2 spot for consecutive tourna-ments.
With another top finish for the Gators 
— a team compiled of mostly underclass-
men — this weekend’s play will continue 
to serve as yet another learning curve.
“You can’t learn how to get over that 
hump of moving day on the last day un-til you go through some of those things,” coach Emily Glaser said. “We learned a lot this week.”
One golfer who learned a lot this 
weekend is sophomore Karolina Vlckova. 
Vlckova, who had a strong Round 2 per-
formance on Saturday of one-over-par, continued to be the anchor for the Gators.
“I had a lot on my mind and I tried to 
not think about it, because I was a little nervous,” Vlckova said.
But after making a bogey on the first 
hole, the Czech Republic native quickly shook her nerves.
“On the first hole I made a bogey and 
I’m like, well, you got it, so now you can start playing normal,” Vlckova said. 
Vlckova went on to finish Sunday’s 
third round matching Saturday’s score 
(and a spring best) of one-over-par, which 
put her in a tie for second place with NC State’s Lindsay McGetrick.
The Gators also saw two other top-ten 
finishes, as sophomore Kelly Grassel and senior Anna Young – competing as an in-dividual – finished the day eight-over-par and two-over-par, respectively. Their cu-mulative scores of +14 put the two golfers 
in a tie with six others for the tenth spot.
Freshman Taylor Tomlinson also re-
corded a personal tournament-best on 
Sunday, shooting two-over-par. Her three round score of +16 put her in a tie for 21st, finishing in the top 25 in each spring tour-nament.
With the team off until March 23, there 
is plenty of time to continue to improve 
upon the little things, such as their expec-
tations and ability to capitalize off of their drives.
“We’ll talk a little bit about how to 
manage expectations. I don’t know if we did that tremendously well this week,” Glaser said. “We’ll continue to work on our short game. That’s what’s gotten us to this point.”Florida women’s golf finishes second in lone home tourney
in coach Amanda Butler’s eight-year stint 
as leader of the program.
In short, no one person is to blame for 
the team’s failures this year.
The disappointment seems greater con-
sidering the unrealistic expectations the team placed on itself at the beginning of the season and the expectations that Gator fans place on all of the school’s teams.
Those unrealistic expectations were 
evident from training camp in October, when the team convened for practice in Gainesville to try and improve upon last season’s finish — an ambitious endeavor 
itself.
Last season’s team reached the second 
round of the NCAA Tournament, led by 
de facto team leader Jaterra Bonds, who Florida lost after the season to graduation.
That team beat a ranked Kentucky team 
twice in the regular season, and was con-vinced they should be rewarded for it in the preseason Top 25 polls the following 
season.
However, when said polls came out, the 
Gators were nowhere to be seen.
In fact, they didn’t even get a vote.
But now, it seems the polls were correct.The loss of Bonds hurt the team offen-
sively, and the coaches sensed that no one on the team could replace her production.
Realizing the lack of scoring the Gators 
would encounter this season, Butler and strength and conditioning coordinator Ty-ler Stuart rightfully placed an early empha-sis on the defensive end.
If you can’t score, make sure the other 
team can’t and make sure you force turn-overs to get transition baskets.
This was the game plan of Florida’s of-
fense, and it worked at times.  The team jumped out to a 5-1 start be-
fore a three-game losing streak tempered those expectations slightly. 
But a loss to Eastern Washington in the 
Gator Holiday Classic seemingly erased any illusion the team had of advancing to the first second-straight NCAA tourna-ment in Butler’s tenure.
Then came the dagger in the heart of the 
team’s chemistry.
Junior transfer Antoinette Bannister, 
arguably the team’s most consistent bench 
scorer, was arrested on Jan. 16 and kicked 
off the team after she admitted to stealing and using teammate Viktorija Dimaite’s credit card during the opening weeks of training camp.
It was later revealed Bannister had pre-
viously taken the credit card of freshman Haley Lorenzen, who turned out to be a surprise contributor for the Gators this sea-
son.
From there, Florida went 4-8 down the 
stretch, including the season-ending loss to 
Auburn.
For all the talk of disappointment sur-
rounding the Gators, honestly, is anyone actually surprised?
With how much is said about the Gators 
as an all-around athletic powerhouse, the 
one team that for years has consistently un-
derwhelmed and floundered in the SEC is the women’s basketball team.
They have never finished on top of the 
SEC or won any form of championship in the 40 years the program has existed.
The Gators have only made it as far as 
the Sweet 16 in the NCAA tournament, and that was in the 1997-98 season when Carol 
Ross was leading the program.
An optimist would like to say that with 
all the success other Florida teams have 
seen, the women’s basketball team will eventually find their footing.
Florida athletics director Jeremy Foley, 
an adamant supporter of consistency in 
programs, knows that Butler is not the 
problem.
The coach, herself a former Gator under 
Ross, was declared safe by Foley despite finishing with the worst record of her ten-ure.
Foley obviously sees that the program 
needs work, and if anything positive should be taken from this season, it’s that 
the people in charge know that changes 
need to come to the program or the Gators women’s basketball will continue to be mired in mediocrity.
“I think she inherited a very difficult sit-
uation,” Foley said about Butler as a coach. 
“I think internally I might have made 
the comment that when she came in here, I’m not sure if it was a ground zero. It may have been less than ground zero. Eight years is a long time, but Amanda Butler is a grinder and we’ll keep grinding here and hopefully get this thing turned around.”
“We have work to do, but I love Aman-
da Butler. She’s a grinder and will keep 
grinding.”
He wants to give Butler the help she 
needs – it just isn’t clear what the answer is.after they turned off the flood-
lights high above the Rupp Arena 
floor.
This floor, combined with 
the old Memorial Coliseum and Alumni Gymnasium, have seen some of college basketball’s great-
est teams run up and down it.
But never has it completed a 
31-0 regular season.
The jerseys hang high above 
with names like Pat Riley, Ja-
mal Mashburn and Tony Delk, 
but never has a big blue squad 
done with the platoons featuring, among others, the Harrisons and 
Karl-Anthony Towns and Willie 
Cauley-Stein.
Kentucky’s bad for the future 
of the game, you might say.
But I hesitate to say Kentucky’s 
the future of the game, either, be-
cause I don’t think anyone’s going 
to be able to sustain the level of talent Calipari has been able to.
Not many recruit with his style. 
He calls UK a player’s program. 
It’s why he took the time after 
the game to say his season isn’t over until June 28, when he may see as many as nine of his players 
leave school and walk across the 
stage at the NBA draft. 
Nobody’s assembling that 
much talent. Nobody’s coming to the table with a deck of cards that stacked so many years in a row. Kentucky is in a class of its own, 
and at the head is a man that Ken-
tucky fans embrace as uniquely their own.
His flamboyancy, his constant 
salesmanship of how hard it is to do what his team has done this 
season, his performance art dur-ing mundane press conference 
after dispatching a rival by 17 
points. 
That is the public persona you 
know so well. But it’s the little things that endear him to the rav-
enous big blue nation. It’s things like listening to the student sec-
tion bellow “we want seniors” and inserting the three walk-on 
four-year players into the game as 
the clock wound down. 
After his press conference, 
Calipari walked back onto the hardwood and held a court of his 
own, addressing hundreds of fans that stayed back to listen to him 
do his radio show an hour after the game ended.
Kentucky is rare, a team with 
a gear no one else has. The Cats 
showed it Tuesday night, when Georgia had them on the ropes on 
the road. 
And they showed it Satur-
day. Florida didn’t exactly have them reeling, but at least a little 
wounded. Next thing you know the Gators are 17 point losers and 
the party begun.
Even with the achievement, the 
entire game’s atmosphere seemed a bit subdued. Sure, there were T-
shirts and pictures after the game and the players said a few words 
over the mic. 
But the crowd excitement left a 
lot to be desired the entire game, and it’s because the 24,428 on 
hand desire so much more.
“31-0.. not done yet,” the T-
shirts read. It’s the not done part that should scare the hell out of you — because I think the players 
really believe it. I think the fans do 
too.
Kentucky is the thoroughbred 
that doesn’t have to expend all its energy to get to the three quarter pole running a perfect race. Now 
with only nine victories surround-
ing them and the 40-0 finish line they crave so vehemently, down 
the stretch they come. 
You shouldn’t have to bother 
to ask whether they make it there or not.
MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
AP Photo
Kentucky’s Willie Cauley-Stein, third from left, addresses the crowd during a ceremony marking the 
teams undefeated season after the Wildcats’ 67-50 win against Florida on Saturday at Rupp Arena in Lexington, Kentucky. 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
UF women’s basketball coach Amanda Butler calls out a play during Florida’s 52-45 loss to Georgia on March 1 in the O’Connell Center. 
Kentucky finished the season undefeated and ranked No. 1
COLUMN , from page 13
Jeremy Foley: We are going to get the program turned around 
WHOOPS , from page 1316, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015
UF ATHLETICS
STAFF REPORT
The UF men’s basketball team 
went 2-1 to close out the regular 
season, winning its final two home games (66-49 against Tennessee and 66-62 against Texas A&M) before 
closing out the season with a 67-50 
loss to Kentucky at Rupp Arena. Florida’s win against Tennessee gave UF coach Billy Donovan his 500th career win as a head coach, becoming just the second Division I coach to reach the milestone be-fore turning 50 years old. Florida, the No. 8 seed in the Southeastern 
Conference Tournament, will open 
up tournament play against ninth-seeded Alabama on Thursday at 1 p.m. in Nashville.
— JORDAN MCPHERSONGymnastics: Despite a season-
high road score and one of its best performances of the year, the No. 3 UF gymnastics team fell 198.500-198.100 at No. 1 Oklahoma on Fri-day night. Junior Bridget Sloan scored a 9.925 in her first beam per-formance of the season and scored a second-consecutive 9.975 on bars. The Gators are now 6-3 and return home for their final regular season meet of the year Friday night against Texas Woman’s University.
— GRAHAM HACK
Softball: The No. 1 Florida soft-
ball team took on its biggest chal-
lenge of the season by going on a California road trip to play in two tournaments. UF came away un-scathed and finished the trip with a 10-0 record and the best start in pro-gram history as they pushed their record to 27-0. The Gators had four wins over ranked opponents includ-ing two against No. 2 Oregon, a sec-ond win on the season against No. 3 Michigan and a shutout victory over No. 13 Arizona. On the trip, Florida outscored its opponents 71-9 and 25-5 against its four ranked op-ponents
—LUIS TORRES
Lacrosse: The No. 4 Gators im-
proved to 6-1 with wins over Dart-
mouth, No. 17 Loyola and Niagara 
over the past week and have now won six straight games. Florida has outscored its opponents 105-37 dur-ing its win streak. Senior Shannon Gilroy has played a big role in the Gators’ offense this season, and in Tuesday’s 11-8 win over Loyola, Gil-roy scored two goals to become Flor-ida’s all-time leading scorer with 206 in her career. Gilroy’s 24 goals this year lead the team and are tied for third most in the country, just three behind the leader.
—ALEX MAMINAKIS
Men’s Golf: UF extended its 
string of top five finishes this week-
end by placing fourth at the Desert Mountain Intercollegiate. Despite a round on Saturday that saw the team fall from second to fourth on 
the leaderboard, the Gators placed 
three players in the top 10 for the tournament. Senior J.D. Tomlin-son continued his consistent play, securing a sixth-place finish in the individual competition at 1-under-par. Freshman Alejandro Tosti and junior A.J. Crouch also ended the tournament near the top of the lead-erboard with a share of 10th place at 2-over-par. The Gators return to action at the Seminole Intercolle-giate on Friday when they travel to  Florida State’s home course.
—RYAN SUMMERS
Women’s basketball: UF closed 
out its 2014-15 season on a low note. 
After dropping its regular-season finale 52-45 to Georgia on March 1, the Gators were ousted from the SEC Tournament as 12th-seeded 
Florida fell to No. 13 seed Auburn 
71-49 in the first round of the tourna-ment on Wednesday in Little Rock, Arkansas. The Gators ended the sea-son 13-17, the worst record under Amanda Butler’s eight-year tenure as UF’s head coach.
—JORDAN MCPHERSON
Sports roundup: What you missed over Spring Break