We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 135 THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015
UF softball tops FSU on the road
The Gators won 5-1, with senior Bailey Cas-
tro hitting two home runs, pg 15.
Parks to upgrade medical devices
The city parks department will apply for grants to get new au-tomated external deﬁ  brillator (AED) units, pg 5.
Republicans must adapt or become irrelevant
Read Michael Beato’s column, pg 6.Read the Avenue online at 
alligator.org/the_avenue
Local duo Bells and Robes perform newest EP at 
the Jam on Saturday.
By Debora Lima
Alligator Contributing Writer
Thanks to educational powerhouses, a 
growing innovation focus and other resources, 
like low cost of living, a quaint North Florida town better known for football than entrepre-neurial savvy is carving itself a reputation in 
the startup community.
Gainesville is poised to someday become 
the Silicon Valley of the South.
But before it can go down that road, it must 
overcome roadblocks.
Its student population is transient, access to 
early-stage funding for local startup companies 
is elusive, at best, and its location and airport isolate the city.
      
Since its inception more than a century ago, 
UF has bestowed upon Gainesville a wealth of bragging rights. It also inadvertently created a broken hiring pipeline.
UF and Santa Fe College are assembly lines 
of human capital: Both institutions are batches of homegrown talent, primed to offer the fruits of their labor to the Gainesville economy after graduation. But the assembly line is faulty.
Census data from 2010 shows that 20- to 
24-year-olds make up about 27 percent of 
Gainesville residents — the largest percent-
age of the population. That percentage drops 10 percent for 25- to 34-year-olds, suggesting students move on.    
And of the 100 businesses recognized in 
this year’s Gator100, an annual ceremony hosted by the Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation that commemorates prosperous businesses founded and/or run by UF gradu-
ates, only 12 are based in Gainesville. There 
are also two in Alachua County and one in Ocala.
“It’s unfortunate to let potential entrepre-
neurs slip through our ﬁ  ngers and go to anoth-er city,” said Quang Tran, a managing partner of local business incubator Starter Space.
When an entrepreneur ﬁ  rst plants roots in 
Gainesville, they can bask in its low cost of 
living — 0.6 percent above the national aver-
age, compared to innovation hubs like Austin (10.1 percent above the national average) and San Francisco (48.8 percent above the national Gainesville losing its entrepreneurs   
SEE ENTREPRENEUR,  PAGE 3
STUDENTS CAN PICK UP TICKETS WEDNESDAY.
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
“House of Cards” actress Robin Wright is set to visit UF 
next Thursday.
Wright is known for her roles as Jenny in “Forrest Gump” 
and Buttercup in “The Princess Bride,” in addition to Claire 
Underwood in the Netﬂ  ix series “House of Cards.”Wright was chosen to be the last speaker 
of the semester because “House of Cards” 
is a popular series among students, said 
Accent Chairman Corey Flayman.  
“We were looking for an excellent 
speaker for the end of the year,” he said.
Flayman said Wright will be paid 
$75,000 to speak at 8 p.m. at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. It will be 
moderated by UF journalism professor Mike Foley, and stu-dents can ask questions at the end.The event is free and open to the public. Students can 
pick up tickets at noon Wednesday at the Phillips Center Box Ofﬁ  ce with their Gator 1 Cards. There is a limit of two tickets per person.
Kalyani Hawaldar, a UF sociology junior, said she is ex-
cited Wright is coming to speak because Claire is her favorite “House of Cards” character. After hearing the news, she even 
tweeted at Wright to sign a painting she made of Claire.
“She is so ﬁ  erce, and she has this power to her, which 
I admire about her character and as a woman,” Hawaldar, 
20, said.‘House of Cards’ star Robin Wright coming to UF next week
C. FLORIDA
18
TALLAHASSEE
1
N. FLORIDA
15
JACKSONVILLE
AREA
8
TAMPA
AREA
7
SARASOTA
1
PUNTA GORDA
 1
NAPLES
1
S. FLORIDA
19
Wright
This graphic represents the cities/regions/states in which the 2015 Gator100 companies are based. 
Shawn Janetzke / Alligator StaffSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 135
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Encounter: Meet the God who 
changes everything
Adventist Campus Ministry will be hosting Encounter, a weeklong experience in the 
presence of God through mu-
sic, worship and The Word. Come out as Marquis Johns, international speaker and pas-tor of Metro SDA Church in Washington, D.C., presents a series of sermons. The event started Monday and ends to-night. The event will be hosted 
at Pascal’s Coffeehouse at 7:30 
p.m.
Battleship
Want to sink another team’s Battleship? Register for the Battleship tournament on IMLeagues through the RecSports website by 5 p.m. 
today. Teams are made up of 
four players in the canoe for each heat and may have one substitute for a maximum of five players on their roster. The object of the tournament is to eliminate all opposing teams by sinking their boat with water using their hands, 
two buckets, a bowl and two 
kickboards. The last canoe afloat wins the heat. The tour-nament will be held at the Broward Pool on Saturday.
Senior Painting Exhibition
UF Senior Painters Jesenia Lopez and Lauren Moncalian 
will be having a duo show 
displaying their work at Superfun! Gallery on Friday. Lopez’s pieces depict her com-plications with cultural iden-tity as a Puerto Rican raised in the U.S. and Moncalian uti-
lizes self-portraiture to reflect 
her vision of her future. The gallery is located at 2033 NW Sixth St. 
Lunafest
Local nonprofit Girls on the Run of Alachua County will be having its first Lunafest on 
Friday with all proceeds going 
to the organization and the Breast Cancer Fund. It will fea-ture films by and about wom-en. Hosted at the Hippodrome State Theatre’s Cinema, it costs $30. For more information, go to lunafest.org/gainesville.
BugFest
Check out the UF Entomology Club’s annual BugFest open house Saturday from 2 to 5 p.m. at Steinmetz Hall behind the UF Lacrosse facility. We’ll have buggy games, insect cooking and informative in-sect talks. You’ll also have the 
chance to talk with represen-
tatives from various agricul-tural clubs on campus. Come and learn more about the big, buggy world that’s out there.
GSCW is recruiting executive 
board membersThe mission of Gators for 
Sickle Cell Warriors (GSCW) 
is to help the public become more aware of the impacts of Sickle Cell Disease and to push those affected to achieve more than they thought possible. Through social events, out-reach and peer advising, we strive to create an educational yet welcoming and fun envi-
ronment for all. You do not 
need to be affected by Sickle Cell disease to join GSCW, but if you are or have been, this is an opportunity to support oth-ers, find a support system and stir a change in the Gainesville community. See the Facebook page for a link to the applica-
tion. Questions? Contact us at 
scwarriorsuf@gmail.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
average). But that isn’t enough, Tran said.
As the saying goes, “It takes money to make money.” And 
not enough is ﬂ  owing through Gainesville.
Early-stage funding, or a company’s ﬁ  rst round of substan-
tial investment, is difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd in Gainesville, said Duncan 
Kabinu, a board member of the Gainesville Area Technology 
Council, a sub-group of the Chamber of Commerce that serves the needs of the local technology industry. The funding is usu-ally streamlined through venture capitalists — investors who are willing to pool money to support a high-risk business or business idea that has the potential to yield high returns.
Despite efforts by the technology council to assemble an 
angel-investor network, Kabinu said the little early-stage fund-ing that does exist locally is spread thin and tied up indeﬁ  nitely because few investors have had an “exit,” the method by which they cash out on their initial investment with a proﬁ  t.  
The next logical step would be to recruit investors from out-
side Florida. But in recruiting those out-of-state investors, the inconvenience of Gainesville Regional Airport presents chal-lenges, wrote Josh Greenberg, co-founder of Grooveshark, in an email. Most ﬂ  ights out of the one-terminal facility require 
transfers at bigger airports.
“When it comes to securing partnerships and relationships 
with out-of-town companies, that makes things a bit more dif-
ﬁ  cult,” Greenberg said.
      
By most accounts, Gainesville’s entrepreneurial boom began 
in 2007 with Grooveshark.
Between a 15-percent decline in album sales and big-name 
artists like Madonna and Radiohead going rogue that year, the music industry was in upheaval. Wanting to regain control over 
what he listened to without going the route of online piracy, 
Sam Tarantino, a UF student, launched a web-based music-streaming service with the help of fellow Gators Josh Greenberg and Andrés Barreto.
They called it Grooveshark, and its inception was “a huge im-
petus” to the startup culture that is now thriving in Gainesville, said Laura Johnson, director of entrepreneurship programs for the UF Warrington College of Business Administration.
“(The startup community in Gainesville) is growing,” John-
son said. “Even in the last ﬁ  ve years, it’s changed so much.”
Co-working space and incubators are terms that refer to enti-
ties that beneﬁ  t ﬂ  edgling businesses.     
Co-working spaces are populated by independent small 
businesses whose employees need little more than a desk and an Internet connection to get to work. Rent varies from space to space but is typically inexpensive. Incubators are companies that help startups develop by providing services like manage-ment training, ofﬁ  ce space and equipment, usually in exchange 
for equity in the startup.
Gainesville is home to six incubators: the Sid Martin Biotech 
Incubator, the Gainesville Technology Entrepreneurship Center, 
the Santa Fe Center for Innovation and Economic Development, Innovation Hub, Skyward Capital and Starter Space.
Starter Space, located at 308 W. University Ave., was found-
ed in September 2013 by Quang Tran and Payal Khurana. A self-proclaimed “community of passionate, collaborative entre-preneurs and change makers,” Starter Space is home to 11 in-
dependent ventures, whose services range from search engine 
optimization to on-demand T-shirt design and manufacturing. More than 30 people work or intern for startups in the building.
The co-working/incubator hybrid provides startups with 
affordable ofﬁ  ce space, Internet access and, most importantly, guidance. Tran said the managing partners of Starter Space strive to create a culture of community by housing only “local talent,” meaning aspiring entrepreneurs who are Gainesville-born or Gainesville-bred.
“The assumption that I have is that if you create that culture, 
you’ll see more thriving startups,” he said.
Along with the co-working spaces and incubators popping 
up, local agencies are working to support ﬂ  edgling businesses.
The Gainesville Area Chamber of Commerce hosts a career 
fair called “Stay in the Swamp,” an annual event that kicked off in 2013. The event, which serves as an opportunity for both business promotion and networking, takes place each year in UF’s Hough Hall.
“The chamber’s vision is Gainesville as the global hub of 
talent, innovation and opportunity,” said communications di-
rector Alyssa Brown. “It is very much relevant to our vision to 
work to keep UF students and Santa Fe students here in our region after they graduate.”
Whether it’s effective, however, is up for debate.Student turnout has been consistent, if not growing, accord-
ing to the chamber. 
Other indicators of success aren’t readily quantiﬁ  able, 
Brown said.
But some local entrepreneurs believe the program misses the 
mark.
“It feels like they’re coming from a place of desperation 
when they talk about staying in Gainesville,” said Opeola Bu-kola, founder and CEO of branding company Gainesville Media. “They fail to talk enough about the values of Gainesville and the value of staying here and how awesome it is. They’re just like, ‘Look! There are jobs here!’”
Bukola, a recent UF grad, said pushing job opportunities 
isn’t enough. When you anchor somewhere, you’re anchoring 
not just at a desk or a cubicle, but in a community, too.
Not all organizations are blind to the missing social appeal. 
The Alachua County Emerging Leaders, for example, hosts 
mixers for young professionals who have outgrown the college scene, Johnson said.
But promotional campaigns designed to support startups 
and ramp up innovation only skim the surface, Tran said.
For Gainesville to alleviate its small-town woes and get out 
of its entrepreneurial rut, it needs a vote of conﬁ  dence from lo-
cal residents and government.
“We need capital to support entrepreneurs who are commit-
ted to Gainesville,” he said. “If you don’t invest in local talent, 
in your local talent, you’re screwed.”
Editor’s note: The writer currently works at Starter Space and 
is therefore acquainted with Opeola Bukola and Quang Tran.ENTREPRENEUR,  from pg 1City and university groups working to provide more resources 
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff 
Pictured is the exterior of Starter Space, a startup incu-bator located at 308 W. University Ave.
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015
THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
By Alyssa Fisher
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
Lucy Morgan is the Bob Graham Cen-
ter Florida Citizen of the Year, but she still 
doesn’t know how.
“I had no idea my name might be ﬂ  oating 
around there,” she said.
Morgan, a Tampa Bay Times reporter since 
1968, was named the center’s Citizen of the Year for 2015. She’s the third person honored.
The Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist said 
she is humbled. She will be honored at a cer-emony on May 20 in Jacksonville.
David Colburn, the director of the Graham 
Center, said she likely earned the title for her efforts to increase government transparency.
Citizen of the Year was formed to recog-nize someone who made a signiﬁ  cant contri-bution to the state’s wellbeing. The decision was made by a three-person committee inde-pendent of the center and UF.
“She’s an extraordinary 
reporter,” Colburn said. “Her work on behalf of the 
Sunshine Law and making 
sure citizens know what’s going on — it’s pretty amazing.”
Morgan said she’s tried 
to end the shut-out of gov-ernmental access through 
articles, columns and the occasional speech for 45 years.
“Transparency begins at the level of gover-
nor” she said, “and it won’t change if we keep going at this rate.” Tampa Bay Times reporter 
honored by Graham Center
Morgan
A GRANT COULD HELP THE PARKS 
DEPARTMENT BUY NEW ONES.
By Carla Vianna
Alligator Staff Writer
cvianna@alligator.org
An automated external deﬁ  brillator ma-
chine during cardiac arrest can be the differ-
ence between life and death.
For this reason, the Ameri-
can Heart Association supports 
placing the AED units, which 
check heart rhythm and launch a shock if necessary, in public areas like malls and parks.
Gainesville’s Parks, Recre-
ation and Cultural Affairs department is in the process of applying for a grant to purchase 10 new machines to replace older ones, said Jeff Mofﬁ  tt, recreation supervisor of the depart-
ment. Ten were purchased last year using a 
grant from AEDGrant.com, which gives the department a discount per unit.
In March, Gainesville’s City Commission 
approved the department’s request to apply for the grant again. The normal price for each AED unit is $1,459, but with the grant, they are about $995, Mofﬁ  tt wrote in an email.
“We have not used any of ours since 
2004,” when the ﬁ  rst 13 machines were pur-chased, Mofﬁ  tt said. “But they are very, very 
important.”
Bill McCrea, a captain with 
Gainesville Fire Rescue, said 
performing CPR and using the AED can restore victims’ regu-lar blood ﬂ  ow and better their chance of survival. The original 13 machines still work, but the models are outdated.
But Mofﬁ  tt said there are enough batteries 
and pads for the original 13 to last through 2017, so as the replacement ones come in, they’re moving the older ones to areas that previously didn’t have AEDs.  Parks to upgrade med devices
LOCALThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
One person’s decision to ﬁ  lm a police altercation has 
radically altered the outcome of a police shooting in North Charleston, South Carolina.
A few days ago, the shooting death of Walter Scott 
was another trafﬁ  c stop-turned deadly confrontation. 
Outside of Scott’s family and North Charleston’s police beat, the death had no more signiﬁ  cance, nothing particularly note-worthy setting it apart from scores like it.
Content to believe police reports — as we should be — it 
seemed a tragic, but not illegal, killing. The policeman, Ofﬁ  cer Michael Slager, reported he stopped Scott because his tail light was out. There was a confrontation; Slager used a Taser on Scott, but that had no effect. They fought. Scott took Slager’s 
Taser; Slager feared for his life. He responded in kind. “Shots 
ﬁ  red and the subject is down. He took my Taser,” he said, ac-cording to the police report.
Thanks to a daring bystander armed with a camera, 
though, the police report clashes extensively with reality. The 
cell phone video, made public Tuesday, shows what actually 
happened: After Scott and Slager confronted each other, Scott ran away. As the Taser fell to the ground, Slager took a solid stance and ﬁ  red eight rounds at Scott’s ﬂ  eeing back. Scott col-lapsed; Slager handcuffed a dying man and waited calmly for backup.
What the video shows is murder. That’s the crime former 
Ofﬁ  cer Slager — he was ﬁ  red after the video surfaced — has been charged with. Public opinion is nearly unanimous in agreement. After all, it’s tough to watch one man shoot an-other in the back and come away from the experience feeling justice was served.
On top of everything, the video shows Slager drop an object 
near Scott’s body. Though we don’t yet know for sure what it is, speculation alleges it was the Taser, which suggests Slager was planting evidence to back up his fabricated police report.
What we have, then, is incontrovertible video evidence 
of police abuse, ranging from falsiﬁ  ed reports, planting false evidence — something Fox News’ legal analyst Arthur Aidala claims used to be standard procedure — and murder. None of this would have been exposed had the anonymous witness de-cided not to record the shooting. In the words of Scott’s father, the case would have been “swept under the rug.”
This isn’t to say “all cops are bastards,” or that Slager went 
into this confrontation with intent to kill. It’s just that this is a signiﬁ  cant case. These things do happen. For once, there may be consequences. Everyone able to recognize the difference between supporting police and unconditionally defending of-ﬁ  cers who murder unarmed citizens on ﬁ  lm believes this is a very bad thing. However, there remain a few scoundrels out 
there who oppose the murder indictment and who are still 
distraught over the way “A Few Good Men” ended. Appar-
ently, they believe running from an ofﬁ  cer warrants summary execution. But they are a fringe minority.
Any justice that comes out of this will be thanks to the 
brave bystander who ﬁ  lmed the shooting. We applaud his 
courage.Bystander video 
important for 
accountability
Republicans need to adapt or become irrelevant
If the events of last week told us anything, it’s that Re-
publicans are behind the times. A great illustration of this was when Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana was shocked over the backlash of his state’s religious liberty law. Any casual political observer could see that Indiana was play-
ing with ﬁ  re.
The Grand Old Party is simply stuck in the past. It is 
sticking with the political playbook that won them decisive elections back in the ‘80s, ‘90s and ‘00s, when the Republi-can Party was the political party to beat. Because Republi-cans were so successful then, the political operatives on the right — many of the old white men who run the party and comprise its base — believe the playbook can still be used to win elections today. This, unfortunately, is not true.
The GOP playbook of yesteryear banked primarily on 
social issues geared toward the “moral majority.” In 2004, Karl Rove designed a strategy that divided the country on moral issues. This caused the more galvanized Christian right to go to the polls in droves. When Pence followed the game plan, it backﬁ  red.
America is at a “hinge” moment, as Democratic strate-
gist Doug Sosnik likes to say. Demographic, economic, in-ternational and cultural forces have been silently transform-
ing the country. Ethnic minorities are growing in size and 
inﬂ  uence. The economy is improving, but the future is still uncertain. The world is on ﬁ  re, and foreign relations con-tinue to be dealt with haphazardly. Millennials are making their voices heard more than ever before. The country has a new face and new political beliefs. Republicans have to realize this.
In order to appeal to the changing nation, the Republican 
Party must change its playbook and undergo an evolution of 
sorts, though it may not be comfortable with this term. This 
is another reason for the party’s need to change. The simple fact of the matter is that the emerging Republican base is extremely different from the base of the ‘80s and ‘90s. New Republicans are more secular and business-oriented.
But even the moral voters are different now, too. More 
evangelical millennials are comfortable with same-sex mar-riage, evolution and social issues. The GOP must adapt with these developments in mind.
The emerging GOP base is not 
copping out or capitulating to social-ist, godless Democrats. The coun-try is simply changing. In the 2012 
election, pollsters liked to say that 
America was divided into left-leaning Starbucks voters and right-leaning Wal-Mart voters. However, Wal-Mart recently came to oppose Arkansas’ religious freedom bill that mirrored 
Indiana’s. Wal-Mart also raised the minimum wage of its workers. What has the country come to?
The nation should now be divided into Starbucks voters 
and, say, NASCAR voters. But even NASCAR opposed the Indiana religious freedom bill. 
The situation the right ﬁ  nds itself in is very unfortunate. 
Talk to any run-of-the-mill American, and he or she prob-ably agrees with the views of the GOP: strong defense, low taxes, accountable and limited government and pro-busi-ness sentiment. This is the bread and butter of the right. In an effort to gain an advantage over the Democrats during the last few decades, the right invested itself in issues like 
same-sex marriage and hard-core religious positions. Those 
divisive issues are no longer divisive for millennials. There is a palpable consensus on them.
The choice for the right is not change or die out. It’s 
more or less change or become irrelevant for a period of time. This happened during the Great Depression when Republicans found themselves out of sync with the impro-vised working class. The GOP bounced back in time, but the New Deal and other liberal programs were law. From 
that moment on, government played a more important role 
in the lives of Americans. That was a hinge moment for the country.
If the right wants to be relevant and, more importantly, 
prevent Democrats from capitalizing on a hinge moment, it needs to get in front of the times and evolve. 
Michael Beato is a UF economics junior. His column ap-
pears on Thursdays.THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Phil Barnes is returning to Gainesville:
He’s bringing Jacob Jeffries with him, pg. 10Channel your inner ‘Mad Men’: 
Check out the latest drinking game, pg. 8-9By Kelsey Sanchez
Avenue Writer
Instead of the usual three musketeers, 
locals will only see two at the Hippodrome 
State Theatre starting Friday.
The Hippodrome will present the world 
premiere of “The Two Musketeers” on Friday, and showings of the play will run through May 3. 
Tickets are $15 for stu-
dents and up to $35 for adults. There will also be a preview today at a discounted price.  
This high-comedy play by Jon Jory is an 
adaptation of the original story of “The Three Musketeers” but with a twist. The plot re-volves around a theater company having to exclude one musketeer due to funding. 
Artistic Director Lauren Caldwell said it is 
a whole group of theater professionals who are involved with the production. 
“It’s telling the story of the three muske-
teers the best way the ac-
tors can,” Caldwell said. 
“If you know the three musketeers, you’ll know what’s going on, and if you don’t, you’ll know 
anyways.”
Starting on Sunday, the Hippodrome is 
also collaborating with Community Partner Nights to support local nonproﬁ  t organiza-tions, allowing people to get half-price tick-ets for the show if they donate the appro-priate items for the organizations scheduled for a particular night, said Kelli McAdams, 
graphic designer and marketing coordinator 
for the Hippodrome. 
“We did it last year with our show ‘Good 
People.’ It went really well, so we’re doing it again,” McAdams said. “The play is about people who are down on their luck and are 
struggling ﬁ  nancially, so we thought it was a 
good idea to get involved with organizations that help others.”
Some of the organizations participating  
include March of Dimes, Child Advocacy 
Center and Grace Marketplace. Requested 
donations include snacks, juice boxes, socks, toiletries, gift cards and cash.
Chris Alfonso, a 21-year-old UF theatre 
junior, said he is looking forward to seeing the play.
“I’m not very familiar with the play, but 
since my professor is in the show, I am ex-cited to see her act rather than just teach,” 
Alfonso said. “I also expect a lot of stage 
combat due to just the title itself.”
Showtimes, the list of donations to bring 
for each organization and the night they will 
be there can be found at thehipp.org.By Michaela Beeda
Avenue Writer
Those who missed Diarrhea Planet’s last performance in 
Gainesville will get another chance to see the band’s high-
energy act this weekend.
“If the crowd is having fun, we’re having fun,” said Mike 
Boyle, the band’s bassist.
The Nashville-based punk rock band will perform at High 
Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave., Sunday night. Doors 
will open at 8 p.m., and the show will kick off at 8:30 p.m. 
Tickets can be purchased at the door for $10 or in advance for $8 on ticketweb.com, Hear Again Music and Movies or at High Dive.
Formed in 2009, the band released its ﬁ  rst full-length al-
bum, “Loose Jewels,” in 2011. In 2013, the band released its second full-length album, “I’m Rich Beyond Your Wildest Dreams,” and they performed in festivals like the Hangout Music Festival and Bonnaroo in 2014.
The band’s four different guitar players may have some-
thing to do with the extreme intensity of rock ‘n’ roll that Diar-rhea Planet brings to its crowds. Boyle said each guitar player brings something different that helps piece a song together in diverse ways.
“I think that part of it is just the volume of the four guitars,” 
Boyle said. “We just have a lot of power.”
Another element that gives the band its ability to leave peo-
ple in a whirlwind of rock is its live performances.    
“I would just say it’s the energy,” Boyle said. “We are all 
having as much fun as anyone at the show.”
Pat Lavery, the owner of music promotional company Glo-
ry Days Presents, wrote in an email he expects a large turnout. 
“They are a multifaceted punk band that brings a fun, party 
atmosphere,” Lavery. “They aren’t afraid to cover a band like Third Eye Blind in the middle of a set of fast paced original-ism.”
Boyle described the band’s music as loud guitar rock he 
hopes will make people smile. He said the band appeals to all ages, ranging from people in their mid-20s to people in their mid-40s.“It seems like different kinds of people come out as well,” 
Boyle said.
The audience at Sunday’s show can expect to hear some 
of the band’s greatest hits such as “Platinum Girls” and “Heat Wave.”             Boyle said if there was any character the band could sym-
bolize, it would be a monster.
“Maybe, like, some sort of monster that is actually very 
friendly.” Boyle said. “That seems kind of scary but is actually just like kind of fun to hang out with.”THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Nashville-based punk rock band Diarrhea Planet is returning to Gainesville to perform at High Dive on 
Sunday night. 
Diarrhea Planet to return to High Dive on Sunday night
MUSIC
The Hippodrome’s  ‘The Two Musketeers’ opens Friday
It’s also hosting Community Partner Nights
THEATER“I’m not familiar with the play, but 
since my professor is in the show, I am 
excited to see her act rather than just 
teach.”
Chris Alfonso
21-year-old UF theatre juniorTHURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015
By Emily Cardinali
Avenue Writer
“Mad Men” was truly designed for a drinking game. The end 
of an era began Sunday. Well, the end of an already-ended era 
of drinking during work, smoking at your desk, prohibitive glass ceilings and sleeping with your secretary after coming back from buying roses for your wife because you forgot your anniversary. Oh, what an era. The ultimate “Mad Men” drinking game would be to match each person, drink for drink, in the show. But then you’d be sure to die, so here’s a modiﬁ  ed version. Take a sip every time Don lies
Take a sip every time men gawk at Joan
Take a sip every time someone lights a 
cigarette 
Take a sip whenever someone gets ﬁ  red
Take a shot for every “pornstache”
Take a shot whenever Pete whines
Take a shot when someone cheats on 
their spouse 
Take a shot when Sally calls her mother 
by her ﬁ  rst name
Finish your drink and pour an-
other if we get an update on Peggyʼs babyMADMEN
Every week, the Avenue will bring you a new drinking 
game to play while binging on your Netﬂ  ix favorites. 
Check back next week for the newest game.By Kristina McDonald
Avenue Writer
With only one week until their 
clothing line is shown in the Belk 
contest ﬁ  nal round, two Gainesville designers are working harder than ever.
Jacquelyn Brooks and Susan-
nah Peddie entered their Strawberry Blonde Clothing designs into the Belk Southern Designer Showcase after 
hearing about it through Facebook. 
The department store has been host-
ing the showcase since 2012 to give 
designers an opportunity to get their brand into the competitive fashion industry, with categories ranging from women’s apparel to accesso-ries.Strawberry Blonde Clothing sells 
handmade, original clothing de-signed and crafted in Gainesville. The clothes are sold in boutiques throughout the Southeast and online.
“Our mission at Strawberry 
Blonde Clothing is to create clothing 
that makes women feel beautiful and 
stylish,” Brooks wrote in an email.
The “strawberry” represents Ped-
die who has red hair, and “blonde” represents Brooks with her golden hair.
Peddie said she has been a nature 
photographer for 10 years and want-ed to print her ﬂ  oral photographs 
onto fabric. Peddie knew about 
Brooks through her fashion-design work in Gainesville, and their ideas transformed into a business partner-ship: Strawberry Blonde.
“I decided I didn’t want to make 
my own line but wanted to concen-trate on the Strawberry Blonde Cloth-ing line because it was more fun to have a partner,” Peddie said.  
The partnership was a success 
because Peddie needed clothing de-signs for her prints and Brooks need-ed textile designs for her clothes.
Brooks and Peddie have been 
working on a 10-minute presentation they will showcase to the corporate buyers of Belk in Charlotte, North Carolina, on April 16. The winner will be announced May 14.
The winner of the 2015 Belk 
Southern Designer Showcase will have their designs sold at Belk stores and online in spring 2016.
GNV designers ﬁ  nalists for contest
FASHION
By Michaela Beeda
Avenue Writer
Locochino, a local alternative/progressive 
rock band, will perform at The Jam on Friday night. Doors will open at 8 p.m., and the show will begin at 9 with Locochino performing at about 11:30 p.m. Tickets are $5 in advance and 
$7 at the door. Other performances at the show 
include Los Panas 352, Stew and Liquid Spiral.
The band is made up of guitarists Brian John-
son and Alan Garver, bass player Nick Melms 
and drum player Sam Coplin.
Locochino spoke with the Avenue about how 
the band got together, different aspects that con-
tribute to its music and the fun energy the band embraces.
So, let’s start with the basics: How did the 
band come together?
Sam: So like, I don’t know when it was — 
it was a party. They (Nick and Brian) came to a party of ours (Sam and Alan), we exchanged phone numbers, I sat on it for like a year and I just called them up one day and we jammed and we meshed well.
Gainesville has a very large, diverse music 
culture. How do you think this has inﬂ  uenced your music? Have you developed a fanbase or type of audience?
Sam: I think we kind of ﬁ  t in well with the 
type of music that’s played in Gainesville, kind of like that funk, jammy style. So we have a success-ful place in this city in particular.
Brian: We have a mixed bag of genres, and 
Gainesville is kind of diverse in the music scene, so it works out.
What is the music-making process like for 
you? What goes through your head?
Sam: Honestly, usually it’s like somebody, 
usually Brian or Nick, will have either a rift or an outline of a song, and we just kind of jam on it. That’s kind of why our music sounds so jammy — because all of our songs just come out of jam-ming.
Brian: We’ve, like, all brought our own pieces. 
Once everyone is there, everyone has their opin-ion and puts their layers on it.
What is the main take-away point or feel-
ing you hope your audience gets from your music?
Alan: Just dance, that’s what I want.Sam: Just have a good time; it’s nothing super 
serious. Not trying to change the world or what-
ever.
What is your band’s spirit animal?
Sam: A dingo!If your music device broke and you could 
only listen to one song your whole life, what song would you choose?
Sam: “Holland, 1945” by Neutral Milk HotelBrian: “Reba” by PhishNick: “Divisions” by Umphrey’s McGee
Alan: “Rescue Me” by Zach Deputy
Is there anything you want to add?Brian: For me, I personally get a lot of joy 
out of music, which I mean most people do, you know, that’s kind of why we listen to music. That is kind of what I think is the most important part about music — bringing joy to people. Q&A with local alternative band Locochino10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015
By Laura Gomez
Avenue Writer
Phil Barnes is returning to 
Gainesville, and this time he’s com-
ing with Jacob Jeffries.
The South Floridian singers/
songwriters will be performing at 
The Jam, located at 817 W. Univer-
sity Ave., Tuesday. Doors will open at 8 p.m. and the show begins at 8:30. Tickets can be purchased on 
the day of the show for $10 or in 
advance for $8.
The musicians met after Barnes 
had attended a number of Jeffries’ shows and connected through a mutual friend at a Jeffries show in Boca Raton, Barnes said.“When I was ﬁ  rst getting started 
out, Jacob was the guy in Florida,” he said. “He was the touring singer/songwriter, songsmith kind of guy, and I had always looked up to him.”
The two are now 
hitting the road to-gether. Their tour consists of four stops, including Wanee Music Festival in Live Oak, Florida, which is April 16 to 18.
This will be Jeffries’ ﬁ  rst time 
performing at The Jam, and Blake Briand, co-owner and manager of 
The Jam, said he’s looking forward 
to hearing him play.
“Phil brought some great guys 
with him last time, so I’m expecting him to bring someone really tasty,” Briand said.
He said the solo, acoustic guitar 
vibe was a nice change to have ev-
ery once in a while.
“They bring 
more of a listening-
room vibe, and 
their music is a bit more heartfelt and thoughtful,” Briand 
said.
Barnes’ single “(I Love) Your 
Kind of Beautiful,” is a track he said listeners tend to gravitate toward.
“It’s just about realizing that 
someone else loves your ﬂ  aws, and you love their ﬂ  aws,” Barnes said. “It’s a really cool thing that you get to appreciate someone else’s and they get to appreciate yours.”
Barnes said he has a go-to rou-
tine for this kind of lyrical inspira-tion: He starts by recording a melo-dy on his iPhone. He then plays the voice memo on loop as he drives down State Road A1A.
“I bring a whole bunch of Post-
it notes with me and scribble lyrics onto them and stick them all over the dashboard,” Barnes said. “Usu-ally by the time I make it back on, like, a round trip, I have at least somewhat of an idea where I want the song to go lyrically.”
Six years ago, Barnes said he 
was just getting his start playing at coffeehouses. Now, he’s shared the stage with artists like Jessie J, Nick Jonas and Austin Mahone.He also said he had a really great 
time opening for We the Kings in December, where he ended up get-ting a live record out of his perfor-mance.
“I had no clue that this was be-
ing taped and after the show I was 
given the mix and I’m like, ‘I got to 
put this out on an album,’” Barnes said. “So I did, and it’s probably the proudest thing I’ve released so far because it’s a really good reﬂ  ection of what my live show is like.”
But Barnes said his greatest ac-
complishment so far is just being able to make a living by playing 
music.
“I think that’s still the thing that 
I’m lucky — very, very lucky — to 
get to do,” Barnes added.
Phil Barnes, Jacob Jeﬀ  ries to play at The Jam on Tuesday
Giuseppe Sabella / Avenue
Seeing Sounds
Bells and Robes perform at The Jam on Saturday night during the release party for “One Should 
See Sound Part II. ” Read the story online at alligator.org/the_avenue.
MUSIC
By Keri and Kelsi Matwick
Avenue Writers
Often an overlooked element, 
the introductory pages to a book 
tell the reader everything. You ﬁ  nd out what the book is about, why the author is writing it and 
who it is for. Introductions set the 
tone and ﬂ  avor of the book and can make the difference in wheth-er someone keeps reading it.
What makes a great book 
introduction also applies to a 
cookbook introduction. It’s what 
makes a cookbook special.
From a writer’s perspective, 
how do you write a great cook-book introduction? The primary concept or theme of the cookbook is essential, but write it in a way that engages readers.
Tell stories to capture their 
imagination, entertain them or make them feel like they are a part of a different time or place. Describe the smell of cookies baking in the oven and how it re-
minds you of Mom baking when 
you were growing up. 
Add personal touches such as 
humor. Cooking is an intimate and personal experience; your readers will engage with your book if you are relaxed and con-ﬁ  dent.
You write a cookbook to share 
your recipes, so you ultimately want someone to cook from them.
Read the full version of this 
story online at alligator.org/the_avenue.Cookbook intros: why 
they’re so important
FOODBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    
4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/
house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-28 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$700 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     4-10-15-40-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    4-14-15-25-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com   4-14-15-25-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    4-14-15-25-2
2 Blocks to UF!
Fully remodeled historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, hardwood floors
$700 mo. 352-505-5049     4-10-15-20-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balcony
Parking included $575 mo.352-505-5049       4-10-15-20-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA TownhouseDouble balcony; One left!$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      4-10-15-20-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1590. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
Walk to campus. 2-story condo, Cresap Arms NW 15th St & 5th Ave. 2BR/1.5BA, furnished living & dining rooms. W/D, balcony off mas-ter. Covered parking. Avail Aug 8th. No pets.  $1050/mo. Email: debramain@gmail.com    4-10-1t5-10-2● CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ●
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental 
School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D 
in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-
1294   4-14-15-10-2 
1BR Cottage $495
2BR Cottage $650
Small Pet ok 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    
4-22-15-14-2
FOR RENT: MIDTOWN.
Blocks from UF. 4BR/2BA, all appliances in-cluded, W/D, DW. Pets ok. From $1600/mo. 
Call Carol 352-359-3341    5-12-15-14-2
Efficiency apartment on horse farm $350/
mo. Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and/or rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.     6-30-15-24-2
Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.
Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:
352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com   
 6-9-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Beautiful, spacious apt for rent @ 2nd Ave Centre. Sublease June-Aug for only $570/month. Personal bathroom. Convenient lo-cation. Shared kitchen & living room.berni.schor@gmail.com or 954-600-4967   4-15-5-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Wanted, private br/ba, furn liv-ing room, condo end unit (Rockwood Villas) $375/m + util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d. Call George 904.874.5774    4-22-15-14-4
$475/mo May 1st Furn'ed Pvt masterBR incl utils, WiFi, W/D, TV. Quiet w/ 3 males in UF Midtown, 13th/8th area easy Bus, Bike routes. ROOM@COX.NET / ph(352) 338-1113    4-13-5-4
Available August 1st. Large room, pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 min from Shands. Perfect for med, engineering or grad student. Large, quiet, lovely home. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    5-28-15-16-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
REDUCED FOR QUICK SALE: 7825 NE 49th Terr 1200 sq ft 2/1 Block Home on acre of land with detached garage/carpot and well w/irrigation system. 10 minutes from airport and 20 minutes from UF $87,000 352-281-5874      4-14-5-5
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYGot a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 4 Roommates12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
AFFORDABLE, QUALITY scrubs and com-fortable clog footwear. Online at www.hospi-talscrubsplus.com or by phone/fax at 1-888-978-4781.      4-14-5-10
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.
Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.
Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers   352-771-6191   4-22-15-14-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           4-22-10-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-17-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13 
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part - Time WantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal      4-16-15-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Opus Coffee
We are searching for fun and active students 
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the direc-tions.     4-10-15-10-14DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part-time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th St.Veterinary experience ideal.    5-19-15-14
Part-time student positionsat GatorWell:  STRIVE peer educators & wellness educators for the Health Hut. Details on our websitegatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu         4-10-15-4-14
STAY IN GAINESVILLEFull/Part time openings 
Accounting Assistants
Linux AdministratorsSoftware/Web DevelopersMarketing CoordinatorCustomer Service Rep'sSales RepsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorWeb DesignerProofreaderCPA Product ManagerVideo TechPlease apply online at
www.gleim.com/employment.    4-20-15-10-
14
College Female needed as Tutor/Driver for 7-8th grader. Strong math, organiza -
tion. Dependable. MTWRF 3:15p to 7:00p, Periodic weekend/late eve hours. Call 352-514-8944.    4-13-15-5-14
Babysitter wanted for four kids ages 6-12, now through summer and into the fall. Help at home and taking kids to after school/camp activities. Experience required. Resume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu.     4-14-15-5-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SIMED is looking for full time, part time and PRN employees for our Pharmacy, Radiology & various medical offices. Check out our web-site, SIMEDjobs.com for more information on each position and to apply online.    4-22-15-11-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, FlCook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
Lifeguard (Certified) $11.37 hourlySeasonal position works part-time on weekends in a maximum security mental health treatment facility for adult males in Gainesville, Florida.  Successful candidates must have current active certification as a lifeguard, a valid Florida driver’s license, and must be able to successfully complete the required background screening for provid -
ing caretaker services.  Applications must be received online by April 30, 2015. To apply, log onto: http://peoplefirst.myflorida.com.   Under Alachua County, select Human Services Worker II requisition # 60957037. You may also contact Grady Carthon at (352)264-8248 for more details.   4-22-15-10-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college stu-
dents.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/
ww   4-22-14-71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatest
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 ConnectionsBy The Associated Press
FALL RIVER, Mass. — As ju-
rors weigh the evidence against 
former New England Patriots star tight end Aaron Hernan-dez, here’s a look at some of the 
key moments in his murder trial 
stemming from the June 2013 shooting death of Odin Lloyd:
THE EVIDENCE
Prosecutors produced neither 
a murder weapon nor a witness to Lloyd’s shooting in a North At-tleborough industrial park. Their case hinges on other elements: 
cell phone records showing Her-
nandez and two friends commu-nicating with Lloyd around the time of the slaying; Lloyd’s phone pinging cell towers between Bos-ton and North Attleborough; sur-veillance video at Hernandez’s home showing him holding a black item that appeared to be a 
gun minutes after workers at the industrial park heard gunshots; 
a joint found near Lloyd’s body with Hernandez’s and Lloyd’s DNA on it.
THE DEFENSE
During his closing arguments, 
Hernandez lawyer James Sultan for the first time acknowledged what that evidence pointed to: Hernandez was there when Lloyd 
was killed. But he described Her-
nandez as a witness, a 23-year-old kid who didn’t know what to do after seeing a shocking crime. Sultan pinned it on Hernandez’s two co-defendants, Ernest Wal-lace and Carlos Ortiz, both of whom have pleaded not guilty and will be tried later. His law-
yers said investigators fixated 
on Hernandez because he was a celebrity, and they pointed to what they called gaping holes in the investigation. The biggest? Prosecutors never put forward a feasible motive for why Hernan-dez would have put his career and life on the line to kill Lloyd. 
Hernandez himself never took 
the stand.
JURY’S ROAD TRIP
Midway through the trial, ju-
rors boarded a bus to tour key spots in the case, including Her-nandez’s home, the street where the victim lived and the spot 
where his body was found. State 
police stood guard as the jury inspected the street in Boston’s Dorchester neighborhood where Lloyd lived with his mother and sisters. Jurors also trekked out in the cold to the snow-covered gravel lot where Lloyd’s bullet-ridden body was found, and they 
toured Hernandez’s mansion a 
mile from the crime scene.
TEARS FOR A SON
Lloyd’s mother, Ursula Ward, 
wept quietly at times during the trial. Overcome with emotion, she would sometimes leave the courtroom in tears when jurors 
were shown graphic photos of 
her 27-year-old son’s body. Be-fore Ward testified, Superior Court Judge Susan Garsh ordered her not to cry on the stand. Ward remained stoic. When photos of Lloyd’s body in the morgue were shown, she mouthed the words, “My baby, my baby.”
HERNANDEZ’S FIANCEE
Hernandez’s fiancee, Shayan-
na Jenkins, was compelled to tes-tify after she was granted immu-nity from prosecution. Wearing her large diamond engagement 
ring, Jenkins testified that Her-
nandez had told her in the days following the shooting that he was not involved. Jenkins testi-fied that she removed a box from their basement at his request the day after the slaying but never looked inside before she dumped it in a random trash bin. Prosecu-
tors said the box may have held 
evidence including the murder weapon, which was never found. She avoided looking at Hernan-dez during her testimony. The couple has a 2-year-old daughter.
THE SISTERS
Jenkins and her younger sis-
ter, Shaneah, both attended the trial at times, but they sat on opposite sides of the courtroom. Shayanna sat behind Hernandez 
and could be seen joking with 
him, several times exchanging whispered “I love yous” when she attended. Shaneah would sit with Lloyd’s family. Before he was killed, she and Lloyd had made plans to move in together while she attended law school in Boston. Both sisters testified 
while the other sat in the audi-
ence, watching and sometimes seeming annoyed. Shayanna said their relationship was “estranged, kind of.” Both were in court for closing arguments, but they ap-peared to ignore each other.14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015
AP Photo
Former New England Patriots football player Aaron Hernandez smiles with defense attorney 
Charles Rankin in the courtroom of the Bristol County Superior Court House on Wednesday.
AARON HERNANDEZ
Key moments from Hernandez murder trial
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Writer
@alexmaminakis
Using defenders on offense — Florida 
may be on to something.
The No. 9 Gators (10-4, 4-0 Big East) 
continued their run through conference 
play by defeating Marquette (4-9, 0-3 Big 
East) 16-5 on Wednesday afternoon in Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin. 
The win is Florida’s fourth straight, all 
of which have been by at least nine goals, so the victory itself wasn’t as unusual as some of the game’s occurrences.
For one, the temperature in Milwaukee 
was in the mid-30s throughout 
the match. But 
despite the cold weather, both 
Florida’s offense and defense remained hot.
The Gators scored the game’s first goal 
just 48 seconds in, when senior Shannon Gilroy assisted a Devon Schneider goal. 
Schneider had three goals on the day 
and is now shooting at a .904 clip this sea-son with 19 goals.
Gilroy went on to score four goals of her 
own and now has a nation-leading 52 on the year. 
Sophomore Mollie Stevens also added 
two goals, extending her scoring streak to 18 games.
Those sources of production weren’t 
very surprising. 
Caroline Fitzgerald and Sydney DuPre, 
however, managed to shake things up a bit.
Before Wednesday, Fitzgerald, a soph-
omore defender, had played 34 games without even attempting a shot. Against Marquette, she got the opportunity to play midfield and scored twice – her first two career goals.
“We needed to do a better job defen-
sively, so we put Caroline Fitzgerald into the midfield to solidify that defensive end a little more,” coach Amanda O’Leary said in a release. “She did a great job filling a position that she wasn’t used to playing.”Florida tops 
Marquette 
on road
LACROSSETHURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
BAILEY CASTRO HIT TWO 
HOME RUNS.
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
Bailey Castro has Florida State 
pitching ﬁ  gured out.
Last season, Castro hit a pinch-
hit home run in the seventh inning 
of a 4-2 win against Florida State in 
Tallahassee.
And on Wednesday, the senior 
blasted two homers to help the No. 3 Gators (37-4) down the No. 8 Seminoles (33-10) 5-1 at JoAnne 
Graf Field in Tallahassee.
Florida is now 13-1 against Flor-
ida State since 2007 and 20-14 ver-
sus the Seminoles all time.
The Gators had an opportunity 
to score early in the ﬁ  rst inning after Kelsey Stewart led off with a walk and was bunted over to sec-ond, but it was squandered when 
Kirsti Merritt struck out looking 
and Kayli Kvistad grounded out to end the inning.
Castro struck for the Gators in 
the top of the second inning. The senior blasted her 10th home run of the season to left ﬁ  eld to give Florida a 1-0 lead.
Following the homer, Lauren 
Haeger walked and Aubree Munro doubled down the left ﬁ  eld line to set Florida up for more runs. Jus-
tine McLean singled up the middle 
to score Haeger and take a 2-0 lead before being doubled off on a Stew-art ﬂ  y ball to end the half inning.
In the third inning, freshman 
Nicole DeWitt doubled to lead off 
the frame. 
After two walks and two strike-outs, Munro walked with the bases 
loaded to score Florida’s third run of the game.
The Seminoles cut the Gators 
lead to two in the bottom of the third inning with a run-scoring in-ﬁ  eld single from FSU center ﬁ  elder Morgan Klaevemann. 
Before Florida State could plate 
any more runs, Haeger struck out 
the No. 3 and 4 hitters to end the 
inning.Florida quickly earned that run 
back thanks to Stewart. The junior doubled and scored on a DeWitt single after running through coach 
Tim Walton’s stop sign around 
third base to give the Gators a 4-1 lead in the fourth inning.
DeWitt ﬁ  nished a perfect 3-for-3 
on the night with an RBI and a run scored.
Castro struck once again in the 
ﬁ  fth inning with a solo home run to center ﬁ  eld, her 11th of the season. 
The Pembroke Pines native ﬁ  n-
ished the game 2-for-4 with two RBI and two runs scored.
"She's getting good pitches to 
hit, but overall, I think we've made the right adjustments offensively—the right mechanical adjustments to get her swing on a better plane," Walton said in a release.
In the circle, Florida starting 
pitcher Lauren Haeger handled the Seminoles all game long. 
The Peoria, Arizona, native al-
lowed one earned run on six hits and struck out seven through sev-en innings as she improved to a perfect 17-0 this season.
Haeger also recorded her ﬁ  rst 
career hit against the Seminoles with a single in the seventh inning. 
The senior had been 0-for-18 
against Florida State before the hit.
Florida’s next game will be at 
home against Kentucky on Satur-day at 4 p.m., marking the ﬁ  rst of three games this weekend against the Wildcats.
Marley Boerema / Alligator
Senior Bailey Castro follows through with her swing during Florida's 2-1 win against North Florida on April 
1 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. Castro hit two home runs in UF's 5-1 win against FSU on Wednesday.
Florida softball powers its way to road win over FSU
AIR JORDAN
If Dalton Guthrie’s performance against Stetson had happened in any of the UF baseball team’s previous 33 games this season, 
it probably would have been the 
highlight of the night.
The freshman second baseman 
hit his ﬁ  rst two home runs in a UF 
uniform during the 22-2 blowout on 
Tuesday and reached base on three 
more of his seven plate appearances. 
He became the ﬁ  rst UF player to 
hit a leadoff home run in more than 
two years, and his slugging percent-age increased from .398 to .430.
“I don’t have many games where 
I hit one (home run) to be honest,” Guthrie said.
Unfortunately for Guthrie — 
but fortunately for the Gators — a school-record four home run performance from fellow freshman JJ Schwarz and an overall 
consistent night from 
the offense overshad-
owed Guthrie’s outing.
 “That was really im-
pressive," Guthrie said 
of Schwarz's play.
But what has really 
been impressive about this Florida 
team has been the production of its freshmen — Guthrie included.
Florida’s foursome of starting 
freshmen — Guthrie, Schwarz, Mike 
Rivera and Jeremy Vasquez — has a 
combined .306 batting average and .481 slugging mark, both of which are slightly higher than UF’s team marks in both catego-ries (.302 and .472 re-spectively).
Guthrie leads UF and 
is tied for ﬁ  rst among all 
freshmen with 48 total 
hits.
Schwarz shares the 
team lead in home runs 
(nine) with junior Har-
rison Bader and paces 
the Gators in RBI (40) and total bases 
(77).
The Palm Beach Gardens native 
leads SEC freshmen in all three cat-
egories and ranks ﬁ  rst, second and 
third nationally among Division I 
freshmen in the respective catego-ries.
Florida ﬁ  nished Tuesday's blud-geoning of Stetson with 22 hits by 12 different batters and a season-high .449 batting average. Eleven of those hits came from six freshmen.
And all of this came just 48 hours 
after the Gators dropped a road se-ries to Missouri. It also ended a ﬁ  ve-game stretch where the team col-lectively failed to post at least a .350 
batting average.
“A lot of us have been strug-
gling hitting the bats,” said Guthrie, 
who was 4-for-20 at the plate in that stretch. “And a lot of us broke out (Tuesday).”
But the road is far from over. 
Florida still has 21 regular-season 
games on the schedule, 18 of which 
are against SEC foes.
With the conference schedule almost halfway ﬁ  nished, UF is tied 
for third in the SEC East with a 6-6 
record, four games behind No. 1 
Vanderbilt.
And UF has been anything but 
consistent in its ﬁ  rst four SEC series.
The Gators have a .271 batting 
average through 12 SEC games and failed to hit above .200 as a team in four of those games. That unpredict-ability won’t bode well when post-season play begins.
It needs to change fast.“When guys are struggling, the 
only way to get out of it is swinging the bat,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said after Tuesday's win.
The Gators left Tuesday’s win 
against Stetson swinging.
They need to keep it that way.
Freshmen showcased value during UF baseball's blowout win against Stetson
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
Follow alligatorSports on Twitter
For all the latest headlines regarding UF athletics, follow our Twitter account @alligatorSports.The SEC named UF track and ﬁ  eld sophomore Kyra Jefferson the conference's Women's Runner of the Week on Tuesday.
UF assistant golf coach named award ﬁ  nalist
The Golf Coaches Association of America announced Tuesday that UF men's 
golf coach John Handrigan is one of three ﬁ  nalists for the Jan Strickland Award, which honors the top assistant coach who excels with working with student-athletes.16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2015
