VOLUME 109 ISSUE 90 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaThe Florida 
baseball team will 
look to a trio of 
freshmen to replace 
former starting 
catcher Taylor 
Gushue. Read the 
story on Page 14.
68/43
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 7CLASSIFIEDS 11CROSSWORD  13SPORTS 14
183
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Tie-dye Time
Maleeha Babar, a 21-year-old UF journalism senior, coats a T-shirt in yellow dye before soaking it in a bucket at an Islam Awareness Month event Wednes-day afternoon on the Plaza of the Americas.
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College has a new Student Body 
president two-thirds through the term.
Doug Bagby, a Student Government ad-
viser, announced during Wednesday’s Sen-
ate meeting that Student Body President Michael Chartier is stepping down without explanation.  
“I was surprised,” said Benjamin Myers, director of Internal Affairs. “But that’s his decision. If he had to do it, he had to do it.”
During the Senate meeting, the former 
Student Body Vice President Austin Brown-
ing was sworn in as the new president, and 
the former Student Government Treasurer Aadil Muhammad was sworn in as the new vice president.
Last semester, Chartier and Student Sen-
ate President Jeremy Pierce argued to the point that the college had to order the two to not be in the same room while on campus.
Since then, Chartier has not attended 
Senate meetings.
Sen. Connor Levine said he was confused as to why Chartier stepped down.
“I would love to get a statement from 
someone at administration if it had any-thing to do with our Senate president,” he 
said.
Levine also speculated that it could have 
had something to do with Santa Fe’s decision 
in December to stop paying Student Govern-
ment leaders. They were previously paid 
minimum wage for 10 hours per week.Santa Fe Student Body president steps down
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org 
In his State of the City address Wednes-
day, Mayor Ed Braddy said things are look-
ing up for Gainesville.
The meeting, which began at noon in the 
Gainesville Police Department’s Hall of He-roes, gave residents the opportunity to see what city ofﬁ  cials have been up to since last spring.
“Much has been done over the past year, 
and much remains to be done going for-ward,” Braddy said. “I am pleased to report that the state of our city is stronger than it was a year ago and growing stronger each day.”
The city’s partnership with UF has sup-
ported economic development through joint efforts on projects like the Innovation Square, said city manager Russ Blackburn.
“The university has been and continues 
to be an important part of the city in many areas, including consistent funding for tran-sit services, which meet the need of univer-sity students,” he said.State of the City praises 
progress but still work to doSANTA FE
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
On the edge of the 
Plaza of the Ameri-
cas on Wednesday, Swamp Party released  its executive ticket for 
Spring 2015 Student 
Government elections.
To a crowd of about 50 students, Swamp Party 
President and spokesman Ricardo Salabarria an-nounced Joseph Michaels, 21, as Student Body president; Tia Smart, 22, as Student Body vice president; and Hadar Arazi, 20, as Student Body treasurer.
Michaels currently serves as UF Student Sen-
ate president. The UF economics and political sci-ence senior said he hopes to help make UF a top 10 university and to tackle issues such as tuition increases. As of press time, Swamp Party does not have an ofﬁ  cial platform established.
“Over the past four years I’ve maintained a 
continued commitment to our university,” Mi-chaels said.
Smart, a UF politi-
cal science senior, is a former Leadership Division cabinet chair-
woman and Arazi, a UF political science se-nior, is president of the Jewish Student Union.
“Our ticket repre-
sents a qualiﬁ  ed, experienced group of students who have demonstrated that regardless of where you come from, you can make a difference at our university,” said Salabarria, 21.
The Student Body president, Student Body vice 
president, Student Body treasurer and 50 senators 
representing various academic colleges are elect-
ed in Spring elections and serve a one-year term.
Qualifying and slating for Senate and execu-
tive candidates will be Feb. 1 from noon to 4 p.m., Feb. 2 from 9 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. and Feb. 3 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
SG elections are Feb. 24 and 25 from 8:30 a.m. 
to 8:30 p.m.Swamp announces candidatesSEE CITY, PAGE 4“I was surprised, but that’s his 
decision.”
Benjamin Myers
director of Internal Affairs
Smart
 Arazi Michaels
News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 90 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.FORECAST
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarMONDAY
RAIN
64/44SUNNY
73/55SUNDAY
SUNNY
67/44SATURDAY
SUNNY
68/43PARTLY
CLOUDY
66/37FRIDAY TODAYWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Gay Movie Night: “In Bloom”
Friday at 7:30 p.m. in the Pride 
Community Center at 3131 NW 13th St., this witty, intelli-gent and painfully honest tale 
is set during one hot Chicago 
summer, when two young men fall in love. Add the fore-boding threat of a killer on the loose, and this incredibly rich and rewarding film becomes unmissable. Kurt and Paul seem very solid and in love, liv-ing large in their home city of 
Chicago thanks in part to Kurt’s 
successful pot-dealing busi-ness. Everything is going their way. But when a sexy young customer makes a play for Kurt, subtle fissures in their relation-ship and an unsatisfied long-ing for what they don’t have are exposed, threatening their 
relationship and possibly their 
lives. Gay Movie Night is a free service of the Pride Community Center. A $2 donation is re-quested to cover cost of snacks.
Model railroader workshop
Model railroaders and people interested in the hobby have 
a special opportunity to learn 
and share Saturday in Alachua. The event is open to the public. Beginners are welcome. The program is from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Admission is $5 per person. Workshops will be held in the fellowship hall of First United Methodist Church, located at 
14805 NW 140th St. Skilled in-
structors will conduct work-shops, and experienced hobby-ists will show samples of their work. A lighting workshop will feature use of LED lighting on a layout. The session will cover electrical needs, selecting LEDs and tips on installation. More 
information is available at nc-
frailroadclub.weebly.com.
Disc Golf tournament
Registration for the Lake Wauburg Ninth Annual disc golf tournament opens Saturday at 9 a.m. The tourna-ment will be played on the 18-
hole disc golf course at Lake been attributed to student 
Katalya Liu.
CLARIFICATIONS
In the article about the new Student Government party, Access Party was described as a new minority party. That was meant to be minority political-ly, not demographically.
The headline on the article 
about UF’s ISIS changing it’s 
name, “UF’s ISIS renamed to 
avoid Islamic State connec-tion,” was misleading. UF was already planning on changing 
the name, so avoiding the con-
nection with the Islamic State 
was an added benefit.Wauburg’s south shore on 
Feb. 21. The tournament will have two heats with 18 holes each. There are three divi-sions: men’s amateur, wom-en’s amateur and advanced. 
The top three participants in 
each division will receive a prize. There will also be two contests — longest drive and closest to the pin — that will take place during the event. The winners of each of these contests will also receive a prize. To register, visit rscon-
nect.recsports.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear.
CORRECTIONS
In an article about the new 
Access Party in Student Government, Student Body presidential candidate Joselin Padron-Rasines’ name was spelled incorrectly, as Padrone-Rasines.
In another article about an au-
thor event, the last paragraph about Cuban-Americans spying in the U.S. was misat-tributed to professor Lillian Guerra when it should’ve 2, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith      
   
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
OLIVIA VEGA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Faculty from the UF School of Music 
composed a petition to bring attention 
to the poor working and learning condi-tions found in the music building.
The petition, penned by Director of the 
School of Music John Duff last November and picking up steam this semester, lists seven problems that need attention.
“We’re waiting for something to go 
wrong,” said Trent Weller, the School of Music facilities manager. “It’s not a mat-ter of if it will. It’s a matter of when are these things going to wear out.”
According to the petition, some of the 
issues that need resolving include en-
closing the ﬁ  rst and third ﬂ  oors to pro-
tect valuable instruments, resolving the acoustic issues that damage students’ and faculty’s hearing and bringing the building up to code.“We don’t want students getting 
hurt,” Weller said. “We don’t want stu-dents coming out of here with issues with their hearing. We don’t want to lose stu-dents to other schools.”
The problems in the music building 
affect more than just the well-being of 
students and faculty.
“Our accreditation depends on some 
of these issues articulated here being 
ﬁ  xed,” said associate professor for the College of the Arts  Steven Thomas, who brought the petition to the attention of college representatives on Friday.
Members of the faculty are not the 
only ones who feel passionately about 
the situation — about 300 music students 
have signed the petition so far.
“I think the petition serves to ensure 
the safety of the students,” said Ismael Sandoval, a music education and mu-sic composition senior. “It’s time for a change.”School of music petitions 
unsafe, exposed buildingCAMPUS
FRANCES VERJANO
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Dannon Company awarded a UF 
graduate student with its third annual 
$25,000 Yogurt and Probiotics Fellowship Grant, aiding probiotic research.
Amanda Ford, a graduate student in the 
UF Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, will study the effect probiotics have on dietary changes.
Ford, 26, will conduct a clinical research 
study targeted at an older adult population because of its increased need for high pro-tein, as well as analyze the possible changes in the microbiota caused by probiotics, yield-ing the highest health beneﬁ  ts.  
“We were looking for a candidate that 
would introduce all aspects of yogurt into their research, and Amanda was able to re-ﬂ  ect that,” said Miguel Freitas, vice president of health affairs at The Dannon Company.
The study is still awaiting approval from 
the UF Institutional Review Board.
“Dannon offers a unique opportunity 
for graduate students to further explore the ﬁ  eld,” Ford said, “and to receive this kind of recognition from the leader in fermented dairy products is a great honor.” 
Ford began working with probiotics as a 
volunteer in 2009 in the Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition before becom-ing a Ph.D. student.
 “After a week of Amanda volunteering, 
I offered her a job because she was so great,” said Wendy Dahl, Ford’s adviser. 
Dahl described Ford as a mature and 
brilliant student. She has co-authored ﬁ  ve peer-reviewed manuscripts with two more publications expected this year — all before starting her dissertation study. 
Ford received a bachelor’s in food science 
and nutrition in 2010 and her master’s of sci-ence in management in 2011 from UF. She became a Ph.D. student in 2012. Ford said she hopes to continue her studies in probiot-ics after graduating.
“I’m extremely interested in further ex-
ploring the health beneﬁ  ts,” she said, “and how probiotics not only affect microbiota, but also the clinical application of the use of 
probiotics.”UF Ph.D. student receives 
$25,000 probiotics grant RYANN FALKE
Alligator Contributing Writer
A time capsule donated by the UF Class 
of 1995 intended to be opened on Jan. 20 
will now be opened in April.
The time capsule located in the brick 
wall in front of the Florida Gym will be opened during the class’ 20-year reunion. 
It wasn’t opened before because it was 
overlooked.
“The bottom line is that I don’t think we 
were aware of the time capsule,” said UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes. “Once we be-came aware of it, we decided that the best 
thing to do is to wait until the alumni of 
1995 can participate.”
When Jan. 20 passed, she began to re-
ceive phone calls asking when it would be 
opened. Sikes did not know why that spe-
cific date was chosen.
One reason the capsule wasn’t opened 
was that there was no explanation of how to access it. Because the capsule is inside 
a brick wall, permission needs to be given 
in order to break it open. The person who could grant permission is unknown, said Shannon Sumerlin, senior director of con-
stituency engagement for the UF Alumni Association.
“No one has any records of this be-
ing built, or at least no records have been 
passed down to the Alumni Association,” 
Sumerlin said.
The time capsule was the first senior 
gift from the Senior Class Gift program — 
later renamed the Senior Legacy program — designed to unite the class and recruit 
donors.
People from different organizations 
were asked to add something to the time 
capsule that captured the year of 1995. 
There is a possibility that a version of 
the campus tour manual from 1995 was put into the capsule on behalf of the Flor-ida Cicerones, said Andy Morris, former Florida Cicerone president who was asked 
to contribute to the time capsule.
The Alumni Association intends to 
open the capsule during Orange & Blue 
Weekend, said Alisson Clark, senior writ-
er for UF’s University Relations.
Having the opening during the 20-year 
reunion will give the Alumni Association 
time to find out how to get to the time capsule, and it will give the alumni of the 
class an opportunity to be present when its 
contents are revealed.4, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
The opening of the time capsule represented by this plaque in front of Florida Gym was 
delayed until April to coincide with the UF Class of 1995’s reunion. “The bottom line is that I don’t think we were aware of the time capsule,” said UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes.
 THEY USE SILHOUETTES AND MANUFACTURED FACES.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
As one Florida police depart-
ment struggles to defend its shoot-
ing targets using mug shots of real 
people, local law enforcement agen-
cies stand behind their use of hu-man silhouettes and manufactured images.  
The use of targets by law enforce-
ment has come under national scru-tiny after a National Guard sergeant discovered her brother’s mugshot was one of six pictures used for tar-get practice by snipers in the North 
Miami Beach Police Department.
According to a statement re-
leased by the police department Jan. 
19, the sniper program has since 
suspended the use of the mugshots 
as sniper targets. They previously did so because it was recommend-ed by law enforcement experts “to train as real as possible.”
Though North Miami Beach Po-
lice Chief J. Scott Dennis said in a statement that the practice of using actual photos is widely used, that is 
not the case in Gainesville.
The Gainesville Police Depart-ment does use pictures of people 
for targets, but the pictures are pro-vided by a target manufacturer and 
show people posed with weapons.
The practice is to avoid using 
photos of real people, including 
mugshots. But it is necessary for of-ficers to practice firing at a human 
face, said Gainesville Police spokes-
man Officer Ben Tobias.
“If officers use their weapons, 
it’s going to be on people, and it’s one of those mental things that we have to train for,” Tobias said. “If officers have to act, we don’t want 
them to hesitate.”
The controversy has sparked 
outcry across the country in the 
wake of highly publicized cases 
where police have been accused of 
use of unnecessary force and racial profiling. 
The biggest movement has come 
from priests, ministers and other re-
ligious figures, who have sent pic-
tures of themselves in their clergy uniforms to the station with the words “use me instead.”
Sgt. Becky Butscher, spokes-
woman for the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office, said she found the practice unprofessional, especially in the aftermath of cases like Mi-
chael Brown and Eric Garner.
“There’s no reason for it,” she 
said. “There are so many other tar-
gets that can be used.”
Like Gainesville Police, the sher-
iff’s office uses manufactured pic-tures of people in simulation train-ing to provide a sense of realism, she said. But the blue paper silhou-
ette is often used for basic training.
“The silhouette has the center 
mass and a head, but it doesn’t 
have eyes or anything like that,” 
Butscher said. “The photo makes 
the scenario more real.” Mugshots not used for target practice by local law enforcement
“If officers have to act, 
we don’t want them to 
hesitate.”
Ben Tobias
GPD spokesman
CAMPUSTime capsule from UF Class of ‘95 opening delayed until April
Cyanne Dunn / Alligator Staff 
From left: City Manager Russ Blackburn, Mayor Ed Braddy and interim General 
Manager for Gainesville Regional Utilities Kathy Viehe answer questions from the press after the State of the City address Wednesday afternoon.
Mayor: Despite positive changes, GRU rates still need work
The city also strengthened its partnership 
with Santa Fe College by finalizing an agreement that will allow the college’s Center for Innova-tion and Economic Development to manage the Gainesville Technology Entrepreneurship Cen-ter, Blackburn said. 
The center is a community-based program 
that will provide young companies with tools, training and infrastructure as they grow.
The redesigned city website received a lot of 
attention from officials, including Braddy and Commissioner At-Large Lauren Poe. The new website is part of the openGNV initiative, which aims to provide residents with access to public records, statistics and financial information, such as how the city is spending tax dollars.
“In 2014 we became unmistakably more 
transparent,” Braddy said.
The website is also aimed at enabling partici-
pation from Gainesville residents through tools such as the new virtual town hall.
The various construction sites around the city were brought up as some of 2014’s accomplish-ments.
Blackburn also gave a shout-out to the Butler 
Plaza construction and the two new UF Health hospitals currently underway.
“It’s clear that you can see Gainesville is on 
fire,” Blackburn said. “There are a lot of things happening in our community.”
Braddy also praised the teamwork of the 
Commission.
“Our Commission is one of the most political-
ly diverse in the state of Florida,” he said. “In this time of political cynicism and partisan sniping, this Commission has charted a different path.”
Still, Braddy said there is much to do this 
year, citing high GRU electricity rates as needing attention.
“By definition a livable community cannot be 
an unaffordable one, and we cannot be a city of opportunity if a growing number of our citizens are struggling to keep the lights on,” Braddy said. “We need a better year in 2015, not only be-cause the commission wants it, but because the 
citizens need it.”CITY , from page 1THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Andres Leiva / Alligator staff
Two examples of the books on display at the medieval studies exhibit. “The Luttrell Psalter: 
A Facsimile,” (left) is a 14th-century illuminated collection of Psalms and other devotional materials. “The Cloisters Apocalypse,” is an illustrated 14th-century version of the Revela -
tion of St. John.
 IT WILL HAVE MANUSCRIPTS FROM THE MIDDLE AGES. JACLYN SCOTT
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Hoggetowne Medieval Faire may 
be ending this weekend, but there is a new outlet for fans of the era.  
A medieval studies exhibit called “The 
Beast in the Book: Animals in Jewish, Christian, and Islamic Illustrations from the Middle Ages” will be on display at Smathers Library until March 6. 
This exhibit is a part of the Vagantes, 
the largest medieval studies graduate stu-dent conference in North America. The conference travels to different institutions, and UF won a spot as host. Manuscripts from this portion will be showcased from Feb. 19 to Feb. 21.
Rebecca Jefferson, head of the Isser and Rae Price Library of Judaica, curated the exhibit, which focuses on the animal imagery within Christian, Jewish and Muslim manuscripts. 
“We may not have fancy-schmancy 
manuscripts, but we do have some quite beautiful replications,” she said. 
Jefferson said the reproductions of 
the manuscripts, called facsimiles, are rare, and many of their templates are de-stroyed.
“The ‘Beast in the Book’ exhibit is just 
one way to showcase the wonderful ma-terials we have in the libraries,” she said.
Brittany Natale, a third-year UF psy-
chology student, ventured up to the sec-ond floor of the library for the first time and made a pit-stop at the exhibit.
“I liked the Visconti Hours one,” Na-
tale, 21, said, referring to a prayer book with religious illustrations. “I’m not really so religious, but it’s still interesting to see the animals with the angels.”‘The Beast in the Book’ exhibit comes to Smathers LibraryNicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Organic Farmer
Curtis Stone, an urban farmer from Canada, speaks Wednesday at the Civic Media Center. He discussed his organic farming business with an audience of about 50 people.
ZOE SESSUMS
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Dean of Students 
wants to open a food pantry 
for students this year and is in need of student workers.
Slated to open between 
March and April, the pantry 
will provide for students, fac-
ulty and staff in need of food 
and toiletry items.
The campus food pantry 
is tentatively scheduled to be 
open three days a week with staggered hours. Michele Pe-terson, assistant director for student success in the Dean of Students Office, said they are looking to have the pantry 
established in the space near 
McCarty Hall and the Food Science and Human Nutrition buildings.
Every three years, Gator-
Well sends a survey to stu-dents to assess their general health and wellness. In the Spring 2013 survey, 22 per-
cent of UF students said they 
skipped meals occasionally, she said.
Peterson said the pantry 
will help alleviate this for homeless students, students who are providing for their families and those who are working part-time and just 
trying to make ends meet.
Nutrition is a direct reflec-
tion of a student’s ability to 
function and perform well, said Natalie Rella, a health promotion specialist at Gator-Well.
“If you generalize the data 
on a campus of around 50,000 
students,” she said, “it trans-
lates to around 15,000 stu-dents who are in need of food and a facility like the food pantry.”Pantry opening to 
help hungry Gators, needs volunteersLOCAL
MELISSA GOMEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two brothers are going native with 
their tea. 
About two and half years ago, Bryon 
and Kyle White started Yaupon Asi Tea, a 
company in New Smyrna Beach that fea-tures the yaupon holly, a native Florida plant. Their products will soon be sold in 
Lucky’s Market. 
In August, Kyle White, 21, moved to 
Gainesville for school, and Bryon White, 
27, is currently handling production in their hometown of New Smyrna.
Kyle White, a Santa Fe College nutri-tion and food science sophomore, said it is 
likely that most Floridians have never tried 
yaupon’s unique flavor. 
The Whites started Yaupon Asi Tea af-
ter experimenting with the tea leaf. When harvested, the yaupon holly, pronounced 
“you-pon,” can be consumed like tea. It is 
North America’s only native caffeinated plant, said Bryon. 
Yaupon contains theobromine, which 
is also found in chocolate, so drinkers will get the stimulation without the jitters.
“We saw so much potential behind 
(Yaupon),” Kyle said. “If we didn’t do it, no one else was going to.”
The company of five is strict about not outsourcing. It produces everything from 
the harvesting to the packaging by hand in 
a renovated factory in Edgewater  — one of few certified organic factories in the state. 
“Yaupon is a sustainable crop … it does 
not require fertilizer, irrigation or pesti-
cides,” Bryon said. “It’s happy to grow 
wherever it lands.”
Four years ago, Yaupon wasn’t market-
able because it was treated as a weed, Kyle 
said. 
But the brothers have found success. 
Next week, Yaupon Asi Tea will be 
bringing its products to Lucky’s Market, Gainesville’s new organic grocery store. 
They have also sold to T.J. Maxx and Unit-ed Natural Foods. 
There are five lighter blends: lavender 
coconut, chamomile mint, cinnamon apri-
cot, chocolate chai and their bestseller, traditional Timucua. Yaupon Asi Tea also produces a faux-honey made 100 percent 
from saw palmetto. Osceola, their fire-
roasted tea, is for those who like their cof-fee strong. 
Bryon said he hopes yaupon takes the 
place of coffee, as it is more environmen-tally friendly.
“Native Americans have been consum-
ing yaupon since the beginning of history,” he said, “and we think it’s time to revive an 
ancient Florida tradition.”New tea makes its way to Lucky’s from two Florida brothersReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.So, uh, the Access 
Party 
It’s quite a relief after a year in which the majority faction, 
Swamp Party, was able to win 50 of 50 Senate seats in Spring 2014 and 49 of 50 in the Fall. In each of those elec-
tions, its executive ticket ran unopposed. 
The last time any viable opposition existed was in 2012, 
when the Students Party nearly wrested power from the hands of Swamp in a close election. But the loss was disheart-ening to many, and the party ﬁ  nally imploded this past year. 
So the appearance of Access Party is enthralling; it repre-
sents the return to this campus of some semblance of a func-tioning democracy. 
Yes, technically Student Government has always been a 
democracy, but in practice that word requires heavy scare 
quotes around it. Yes, there are elections — yes, there have 
been multiple parties. But the saga of the Swamp-Gator-
Unite-and-Swamp-again cycle demonstrates SG’s long and storied history of being, effectively, a one-party oligarchy, 
run mostly on patronage from various student organizations 
rather than the actual democratic process. 
But while endemic corruption, nepotism and back-room 
dealings are mostly responsible for the situation in SG, a sig-
niﬁ  cant part of the problem is the traditional weakness of the opposition. 
Opposition parties usually lack the effectiveness and 
widespread support needed to gain a majority of seats, and students who fall outside of the Swamp camp rarely partici-pate in elections. 
Granted, opposition parties are also rarely in the position 
to coerce the largest and most powerful student organizations 
on campus to vote for them — through such effectual means 
as denying food to their members until they vote or reward-ing them with booze if they do — but that’s neither here nor there. 
All we know is Access Party seems to be aware of this. 
In the words of its presidential candidate, Joselin Padron-Ra-sines: “Once you’re in Student Government, you realize that it works for those who are powerful or well connected.” 
Access also seems to be what the people have been waiting 
for. It’s gotten a lot more support and attention than the pre-
vious emergent SG party, Taco Libre, which was little more 
than an exercise in futility. As of this writing, Access Party has more than 1,000 likes on its Facebook page — not even 24 hours after its creation. We can safely guess it’ll continue to grow today. 
Access, then, is in a unique position to mobilize the non-
Swamp masses and possibly overturn decades of political domination. But its success is entirely up to the efforts of its 
staff and the student body. We hope Access is able to change 
the way things are run around here. 
Not that we are particularly enamored with Access or hold 
Swamp in contempt; but I think we can all agree it’d be nice if every election wasn’t won by a single party without contest.Republican hopefuls for 2016 worrisome
Last weekend, Republican Party presidential hope-
fuls ﬂ  ocked to Rep. Steve King’s Iowa Freedom 
Summit — if there’s “freedom” in the name, it has to 
be right, good and conservative — to court the ﬁ  rst-in-the-
nation caucus state. I found many aspects of this forum, as well as some positions of the GOP hopefuls in general, worrying.
The ﬁ  rst cause of my concern is completely founded: 
It seems as though when one or two are gathered in the 
name of conservative politics and Ronald Reagan, the 
most bizarro conservatives are in their midst. And any time Republican politicians have to vie for the approval of Steve King — the same congressman who thinks illegal immigrants are drug-smugglers and have calves the size 
of cantaloupes — it’s bound to be deeply troubling.
The usual conservatives exited the right-wing clown 
car in cartoonish fashion. The former governor of Alaska gave what can only be described as the most Palin-esque 
sound bite: “It is good that we have a deep bench and its primary competition that will surface the candidate who’s up to the task and unify and this person has to because knowing what the media will do throughout all of 2016 
to all of us it’s going to take more than a village to beat 
Hillary.”
Donald Trump — angry, presumably because we 
haven’t been talking about him enough lately — ad-
dressed the crowd and blasted Jeb Bush and Mitt Rom-
ney. Carly Fiorina, the enigmatic former CEO of Hewlett-Packard and GOP diversity improver, offered the most pointed criticism of Hillary Clinton and a lofty defense of pro-life-ism. 
And let’s not forget Dr. Ben Carson. The neurosur-
geon’s rise on the right has left him dazed, confused and hapless. Carson believes that the Veterans Affairs scandal was “a gift from God,” compared the U.S. to Nazi Germa-ny and encouraged everyone to read the 1958 book “The 
Naked Communist” because of its relevance to today’s 
political events. I expect more good things to come from him.
To some extent, we can tolerate and expect these peo-ple to say nutty things. What we should not tolerate are serious 
Republican politicians saying 
nutty things. Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal still believes there are “no-go zones” — densely Muslim-populated areas where non-Muslims won’t enter. Even though it’s not true. Completely 
not true. This worries me.
What also worries me are all the things I liked about 
the Freedom Summit. I liked that Rick Santorum believes 
the Republican Party should strive to become the party of the worker once again. He believes that “the biggest 
reason for income inequality is the breakdown of the fam-
ily.” Santorum is cognizant of income inequality and is addressing the reality of the breakdown of the family. I 
wouldn’t necessarily lump the two together, but I like the 
effort.
Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee also made some 
good news. The governor defended his immigration poli-cies as state executive: “When a kid comes to his country, 
and…he had no choice in it — his parents came illegally 
… That kid is in our school from kindergarten through the 12th grade. He graduates as valedictorian because he’s a smart kid, and he works his rear end off … The question 
is: Is he better off going to college and becoming a neuro-
surgeon or a banker or whatever he might become, and becoming a taxpayer, and in the process having to apply for and achieve citizenship, or should we make him pick tomatoes? I think it’s better if he goes to college and be-
comes a citizen.” 
I like his stance because it’s practical, looks to the fu-
ture and addresses an area where the GOP shows a little 
weakness. 
Santorum and Huckabee’s positions actually look ap-
pealing. 
I know, there’s a lot to be worried about on the right.     Michael Beato is a UF economics junior. His column ap-
pears on Thursdays.
105 TOTAL VOTES84% YES
16% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgFriday’s question: Would you vote for a 
new party in Student Government?Today’s question: Were you wondering why the time cap-
sule in front of the stadium hadn’t been opened yet?
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgtheAvenue    
Keep up with the Avenue 
or send us story tips on Twitter @TheAlligator!What else is inside:
A study about FOMO, a ﬁ  lm and album review, a recap of the SAG Awards and the connection between ﬂ  ying  and ﬂ  avors, pg. 8-10Love politics, journalism, drama and sex? 
Then check out the latest show to binge drink to on pg. 8-9LAURA GOMEZ
Avenue Writer
An all-female comedy improvisation 
group by the name of Cat Ladies will be 
putting on a show at the Reitz Union on 
Friday night.
The comedy show, sponsored by Re-
itz Union Board Entertainment’s Speak-
ers and Comedians Committee and Gator 
Nights, includes actresses and comedians 
Marcy Jarreau, Madeline Walter and Ni-cole Byer from MTV’s “Girl Code.” The free event will begin at 9 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Students are re-
quired to bring their Gator 1 Card and are 
allowed to bring two guests each.
James Jimenez, co-director of the Speak-
ers and Comedians Committee, said one 
can expect the type of humor Byer brings 
to “Girl Code,” such as relationship and situational humor.
“We thought that with Nicole, it would 
be the type of act that would really work 
with a college student atmosphere,” Jimenez said.
Speakers and Comedians has previ-
ously featured stand-up comedians and 
improv groups, but this is the ﬁ  rst time a recognized female comedian like Byer has been brought in, Jimenez said.
The committee expects 200 to 300 peo-
ple to attend the event.
“We try to cater to everyone’s interest, 
so we thought it would be really interest-ing to bring in an all-female group and 
represent that side of comedy that doesn’t 
get enough representation,” Jimenez said.
The committee would not disclose in-
formation about the cost to bring Byer to 
UF.
Natalie DelRocco, a 19-year-old UF ani-
mal sciences freshman, expressed excite-
ment when she heard an all-female group will be performing.
“Now, I think there are deﬁ  nitely more 
female comedians that come to mind,” DelRocco said. “So I do believe the gap 
(between male and female comedians) is 
closing.”
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/AVENUE
Courtesy to the Alligator
Nicole Byer of MTV’s “Girl Code” will be at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom 
on Friday at 9 p.m. as part of the all-female trio comedy improv group by the name of Cat Ladies. 
Some cool cats to perform improv at the Reitz on Friday
The free show starts at 9 p.m.
COURTNEY CULBREATH
Avenue Writer
Let the dream begin at UF 
this weekend when the longest-running show in Broadway his-tory comes to campus for the ﬁ  rst time.  
The School of Music is pre-
senting a semi-staged produc-tion of “The Phantom of the Opera” in the University Audi-torium, and about 2,200 people are expected to attend the sold-out show.
“Our purpose is not to recre-
ate what people have seen on Broadway,” said Anthony Of-ferle, the director of the UF Op-era Theatre Program and a UF assistant professor of voice and opera. 
Their purpose, Offerle said, 
is to take incredible music, fan-tastic singers and a wonderful orchestra to bring the story and magic of the Phantom to life.
Set primarily in late 19th-cen-
tury France, the musical follows a Paris Opera House chorus girl, Christine Daaé, and her unusual relationship with the deformed, musical virtuoso known as the Phantom, who lives in the sew-ers underneath the Opera.
An unusual 
aspect to this production is that audience members will be seeing the Phantom from up close no 
matter where they’re sitting, as he will be appearing in random spots throughout the show, Of-ferle said.
Joshua Mazur, the 25-year-old 
UF voice and conducting gradu-ate student playing the title role, said what makes the Phantom so universal is that everyone can re-late to him.
“I ﬁ  nd that while I, myself, 
am not totally deformed, I see in the faces of these people around the Phantom who are torturing him the faces of people in my life who have done that to me,” Mazur said. “The only question people should ask themselves is if they want to be moved, and if the answer is yes, then they should come.”
Despite having three perfor-
mance times over the weekend, as of Wednesday, the show is completely sold out. Leah Craig, the public relations and market-ing manager at the College of the Arts, said the show may have sold out quickly due to the name recognition.
“It’s unexpected and wonder-
ful,” she said. “Everyone loves the ‘Phantom of The Opera,’ so I think that really contributed to the success of ticket sales.”
But for any theater aﬁ  cio-
nados still hoping to get tick-ets, there’s hope. The School of Music will be giving away one more ticket and the opportunity to purchase another ticket for a guest through one last “Phantom Fridays” trivia game on its Face-book page Friday at 3 p.m. 
UF version of ‘The Phantom of the 
Opera’ sells out weekend showsmusical
Tonight
Head to The Wooly to watch the second showing of “Records Col-
lecting Dust,” a ﬁ  lm about how music has changed peopleʼs 
lives. Doors open at 8 p.m. and tickets are $5. The show starts at 8:30 p.m. 
Friday
Be a part of the Nemesis Army and jam out at The JAM with Arch-
nemesis, along with local duo Bells and Ropes and Ruby and 
Friends. The show starts at 9 p.m. and itʼs 18 and older. Tickets 
are $8 in advance at archnemesismusic.com and $10 at the door.
Saturday
Listen to Laura Hope & The Ark-Tones, along with The Howleez and 
Company Man at the 1982 bar while enjoying some food, craft 
beer and video games. The show starts at 9 p.m. Itʼs $5 for the 
show and $7 for those under 21. 
Sunday
The Hippodrome State Theatre is showing Oscar-nominated short 
ﬁ  lms through the ﬁ  rst week of February. Watch the animated 
short ﬁ  lms, including “Feast” and “Bus Story,” at 4:15 p.m. Tick-
ets are $6. 
Upcoming Events THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015 § ALLIGATOR , 9 8, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
EMILY CARDINALI
Avenue Writer
“House of Cards” — what a perfect com -
bination of things I love to let drive me crazy: 
politics, journalism, drama and sex. With the 
premiere of the political drama’s third sea -
son slated for Feb. 27, it’s time to binge watch 
(drink) your way through the Netflix original 
that traces Francis Underwood’s ruthless rise 
to the top of the White House. Pour yourself 
an Underwood-style bourbon (Blanton’s, neat) 
and swing back.
Every week, the Avenue will bring you a new drinking game to play while binging on your Netflix favorites. Check back next week for “A Young Doctor’s Notebook.”TAKE A SIP  when Underwood breaks the fourth wall.
FINISH YOUR DRINK  when he successfully carries out a 
manipulative plan.
TAKE A SIP  when Claire shoots an intimidating look.
TAKE A SIP  when Lucas whines about anything and everything.
DRINK THROUGHOUT  an illicit cigarette scene.
TAKE A SIP  every time Frank’s text tone goes off.
TAKE A SIP  whenever Stamper expresses a special interest in 
Rachel.
FINISH YOUR DRINK  when Frank eats at Freddy’s.
TAKE A SIP  when either Frank rows or Claire runs.
DRINK THROUGHOUT  a Russo cocaine binge.editionKELSI & KERI MATWICK
Avenue Writers
Have you ever wondered why food 
tastes different on airplanes? Brownies 
taste bland, and peanuts taste plain, 
but bloody marys taste richer? Flavor 
is a combination of your taste buds 
and sense of smell, and according to 
research by Charles Spence, a profes -
sor of experimental psychology at 
Oxford University, these senses are af -
fected in higher altitudes. The low air 
pressure and lack of humidity affect 
your sense of taste, reducing your de -
tection of saltiness and sweetness. At 
the same time, sour, bitter and spicy 
flavors remain unaffected, and umami 
notes (like tomatoes and cheese) actu -
ally seem stronger in the air than on the 
ground.
Flavor is influenced not only by 
your taste buds but also your hear -
ing. The loud humming of the jet en -
gines causes food to taste less salty and 
sweet. BBC reports that airlines’ execu -
tive chefs contend with these difficul -
ties by modifying in-flight meals with extra salt and spices 
to make the flavors 
“more robust.” As 
a passenger, you 
can make your meal 
more satisfying by 
wearing earplugs 
or noise-canceling 
headphones.
Besides your mouth and ears, your 
nose also affects your flavor detection 
and eating experience. The aroma of 
a food can account for as much as 80 
percent of its flavor. Think of the last 
time you were in the mall or the airport 
and smelled a sweet, brown sugar cin -
namon scent. You probably recognized 
it as Cinnabon’s cinnamon rolls. Based 
on a study by The Wall Street Jour -
nal, Cinnabon uses “scent-marketing” 
strategies to lure in customers. Its 
pastry stores bake the cinnamon rolls 
every 30 minutes, as well as warm up 
sheets of brown sugar and cinnamon to 
keep the aroma lingering.
Cinnabon also strategically secures 
locations in the center of the mall for 
optimal exposure of its smells. Other retailers — such as Bath & Body Works 
(which also relies on scent to sell its 
products) or Abercrombie & Fitch — 
also know that scent is a factor in the 
shopper’s experience and locate their 
stores far from Cinnabon and other 
food venues.
Other food businesses are also tap -
ping into the power of smell to increase 
sales or evoke certain flavors, such as 
Wendy’s with its grilled chicken sand -
wich, which contains beef extracts. 
In 2008, Starbucks took its breakfast 
sandwiches off the menu for a brief 
period. CEO Howard Schultz thought 
the smell of cheese interfered with the 
scent of coffee, which is central to the 
cafe’s experience. Starbucks’ aroma 
task force researched how to put the 
breakfast item back on the menu but 
still keep the coffee smell dominant.
You can manipulate your own eat -
ing experience by altering the sounds 
and smells around you. Although you 
may not be able to change much while 
flying, you can be mindful of what 
you’re eating and how it tastes.Flavor, smell of food affected by flight food
ASHLYN PINTER
Avenue Writer
Artist Mikky Ekko started the year off with the re -
lease of his debut LP, “Time,” which felt long overdue 
for fans who discovered his passion-driven vocals after 
his feature on Rihanna’s hit song, “Stay.” Ekko bares 
his soul on each of the 12 tracks on the album,  which 
was released Jan. 20. His album references the concept 
of love and time all the way through. Each song pro -
vides diverse sound, perspective and emotion to the 
listeners who lend their ears to this album.
The opening song, “Watch Me Rise,” jump-starts 
the album with Ekko’s drive to reach all of what love 
has to offer. Ekko slowly reveals his battle with love in 
transition to the courageously sanguine track “Smile,” 
the top track on the album, which inspires a smile that 
emerges from within.
“Love You Crazy” and “U” serve as the love-
induced calm before “Riot” takes you by storm and 
blows through all preconceived notions you may have 
held about the artist’s vocal ability on the five previous 
songs.Once you return from the high, 
you’re carried gently back down to 
earth with Ekko’s smooth tone in 
“Mourning Doves,” contrasted with 
the following song “Burning Doves,” 
where Ekko sheds light on how love 
can spiral, crash and burn.
“Pull Me Down” and “Comatose” 
turn the lights out with their slow, dark mood while 
making you feel like you’ve plunged into Ekko’s heart.
“Made Of Light” is the connecting point of every 
track on the album. The song gives a sense of light and 
positivity like the opening tracks with a hint of dark -
ness taken from the songs before and after it.
Ekko’s vocals are relentless as the album comes to 
a close with “Loner.” It leaves the listener with a final 
perspective of love, and it is one that is enrapturing and 
leaves you lonesome without it.
Whether Ekko is cutting deep into himself for love 
or rising above its limits, this debut album is just burst -
ing with bravery in the face of love and a clock that is  
just ticking away. Long overdue album from Mikky 
Ekko a rollercoaster of emotionsALYSSA HOLCOMB
Avenue Writer
The 21st annual Screen Actors 
Guild (SAG) Awards may not have 
held as many surprises as the Oscar nominations, but the statues do have a special meaning that sets them 
apart from other trophies — these 
awards are selected by peers as voted through SAG-AFTRA union (meaning actors voting for actors). In a way, this show always seems to be the most intimate of awards season, with actors openly cheering on their fellow actors and seeming more at ease among their colleagues.
One of my favorite parts of 
awards season every year is the se-ries of “I’m an Actor” monologues that start off the show. This year’s selected participants included Rob-ert Duvall (“The Judge”), Jennifer Aniston (“Cake”) and a very thin and clean-shaven Zach Galifianakis (“Birdman”).
Uzo Aduba also provided her 
own “Actor” monologue before ac-cepting the statue for Outstanding Female Actress in a Comedy Series, while “Shameless” star William H. Macy took home the statue for Out-standing Male Actor in a Comedy Series. Later, the forty-person cast of “Orange is the New Black” won the 
award for Outstanding Ensemble in 
a Comedy Series, marking the Net-flix series’ early domination for the evening.
Golden Globes winners (and Os-
car favorites) Patricia Arquette and J.K. Simmons received the statues for Outstanding Female and Male Actors in a Supporting Role, respec-
tively. Simmons gave a wonderful 
acceptance speech, stating that ev-ery actor, in turn, is a supporting ac-tor to the story.
Carrie Fisher (aka Princess Leia 
from “Star Wars”) presented her mother, Debbie Reynolds, with the Life Achievement Award. Reynolds, a long-standing performer known 
for her many roles in films including 
“Singin’ in the Rain,” rambled ador-ably during her acceptance speech, sharing memories from her impres-sive career. But wait, no “Hallow-eentown” references?
Other notable winners included 
“House of Cards’” Kevin Spacey for Outstanding Male Actor in a Drama 
Series and “How to Get Away with 
Murder” dynamo Viola Davis for Outstanding Female Actor in a Dra-ma Series (Author’s note: This was the award that made me cheer out 
loud — Davis’ strong, sultry Annal-
ise Keating is without a doubt one of the most dynamic 
characters on tele-vision right now.) Additionally, the cast of “Downton Abbey” won Out-standing Ensem-
ble in a Drama Se-
ries for Television, besting “House 
of Cards” and “Game of Thrones.”
In an already tight race for the 
Oscar, the Outstanding Male Ac-tor in a Leading Role went to Ed-die Redmayne for his unbelievable performance as Stephen Hawking in “The Theory of Everything.” The 
clearly moved Redmayne recog-
nized all of the fellow leading actor nominees across awards season and dedicated his award to people and families living with ALS, the disease that Hawking suffers from. Red-mayne’s speech was arguably the most touching of the night. It’s pos-sible this win may have given him 
the edge for the Academy Award.Another Oscar frontrunner, Juli-
anne Moore, won Outstanding Fe-
male Actor in a Leading Role for her role in “Still Alice.” She gracefully described the thrill of acting with others as what keeps her coming back to the craft and spoke to “dra-
ma club kids” saying, “You guys are 
the real actors.”
The cast of “Birdman” accepted 
the Outstanding Cast in a Motion Picture award, with co-stars Mi-chael Keaton, Edward Norton and Emma Stone among those present. Since these awards are performance-based, there was no film singled out 
as the sole leader of the night, which 
was a refreshing break from the nail-biting back-and-forth of the majority of the season’s ceremonies.
Did your picks win at the SAG 
Awards? Tweet your thoughts @AlyssaVHolcomb. Stay tuned for the next Trophy Hunting recap for the Grammy Awards airing Feb. 8 
on CBS.
10, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
AP Photo
The Screen Actors Guild Awards actor statuette appears 
near the Hollywood Sign in Los Angeles. The award show took place Sunday at the Shrine Auditorium.
Trophy Hunting: SAG Awards recap
ARIANA BRASMAN
Avenue Writer
All that time spent on 
Facebook may lower your 
chances of fear of missing 
out, but it could raise your 
stress level if your friends are posting about hard times.
A study conducted by the 
Pew Research Internet Cen-ter surveyed 1,801 adults and found that those who use social media often indi-cate lower levels of stress. 
The survey also found that 
women who spend a lot of time on social media expe-rienced less FOMO (fear of 
missing out).
However, the study also 
found that social media users 
— especially women — who stay up-to-date on relevant 
events in the lives of their 
friends and family show higher levels of stress. The increase in stress is due to 
unfortunate events occurring 
to a friend or family member, such as getting a divorce or developing cancer, being discussed on these social me-
dia sites.
Ariella Bak, a 19-year-old 
UF student, said she experi-
ences less FOMO while she’s 
on various websites and 
apps like Facebook, Insta-gram and Snapchat.
“I check social media sites 
five to six times a day,” Bak 
said. “It’s nice to see what 
everyone is doing.”
However, finding out 
about a stressful event 
through social media “would 
trigger some kind of other emotion like sadness or even anger. It creates a feeling of being less engaging with the 
actual person,” Bak said.
For other students like Dallas Piggott, a UF psychol-
ogy freshman, FOMO isn’t an issue, but stress is still a possible factor.
“I only have Facebook, 
but I check it frequently,” Piggot said.
Piggott enjoys using Face-
book to stay in the know, 
but if a serious event were to 
happen to a friend or family member of hers, Piggott said she would rather find out 
from a personal phone call 
instead of through a website or app.
“I wouldn’t want to find 
out a serious problem was 
going on with someone I 
know over the internet. It’s impersonal,” Piggot said.
Although you may hear 
about a bad situation more quickly on social media in the long run, finding out the specific details might end up taking longer, which 
could result in more stress, 
said Mindy McAdams, a UF professor in the College of Journalism and Communi-
cations. She said finding out 
about a stressful event this way leaves you feeling dis-connected from any further questions you want to get 
answered.
“We are often so casual 
about social media,” Mc-
Adams said.  “Stress levels 
can rise because you can’t 
find out additional informa-tion and yet are craving to know how it happened, or if the person is going to be al-
right.”Social media study: 
Stress, not FOMO, a 
concern for women
JENNIFER JENKINS
Avenue Writer
(Note: Spoilers ahead) When I watched 
“The Babadook,” I wasn’t sure what to expect. 
It was certainly different than any other horror film I had ever seen. I quickly realized it was less of a horror flick and more of a representa-
tion of a woman’s journey of overcoming her 
deepest fears.
The movie opens with the protagonist, 
Amelia (Essie Davis), in a slow-motion car accident. It doesn’t take long to realize she’s dreaming about her husband’s violent death. We learn he died in a car accident while driv-ing her to the hospital to give birth to their son, Sam-uel (Noah Wiseman). It’s evident Amelia is afraid to accept her husband’s death. Not only is she a widowed 
mother, but her son has an 
obsession with monsters, 
which causes them to be shunned from soci-ety.
One night, Samuel grabs a book titled 
“Mister Babadook” off his bookshelf. He starts to see this Babadook character, and his belief becomes severe. After destroying the book, it ends up back on her doorstep with new writ-ing explaining that the more she denies the Babadook’s existence, the stronger he will get.
As her own sanity dissolves to ruin, Amelia 
is forced to confront Babadook. Babadook tries to inhabit Amelia and influence her actions, and he demands she give him her son. Ame-
lia almost complies while under Babadook’s 
trance, but  is able to gather enough strength to destroy the power he has over her.
Throughout the film, the main characters 
are repeatedly represented as outsiders in the plot and through several symbolic images: Amelia and Samuel are the only characters who have loose, curly hair. This is emblematic of the haphazard mess Samuel and Amelia are living in, blocked by uncontrolled emotional baggage.
Like the book, Samuel is a consistent re-
minder of Amelia’s dead husband. As a single mother who works full time, she constantly wishes for what could have been. Babadook’s 
promise is a symbol of the danger in letting 
our fears control us.
Though the movie was well done with re-
spect to using abstract symbols to drive a real-istic point home, it wasn’t easy to sit through. If you’re looking for a horror flick, this is not it. Though it doesn’t end in tragedy, the end-ing was the only part of the film that was not tragic.
‘The Babadook’ film at the Hipp not your typical horror flick BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
● 2BR Home $850● 2BR Condo $850● 2BR Townhouse $750Bristol Park Realty 352-367-2669BristolParkManagement.com      1-30-15-10-2
2BR/1.5BA townhouse available in Tower Village. rent($600) Interested call 3522245011 or 3526822667.    1-30-15-9-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony$575 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo
4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    
2-25-15-20-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
12, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALALL VEHICLES 20143630 N MAIN STwww.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 2-6-14-73-13 TutorThis newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOEStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal     2-5-15-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 13
FULL/PART TIME OPENINGS
Web Designer
Accounting AssistantsLinux AdministratorsSoftware testersAdministrative AssistantsSoftware DevelopersCustomer ServicesSales ConsultantsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorsContent CoordinatorCPA/EA Product ManagerWord ProcessorWeb DeveloperMarketing CoordinatorVideo TechGardenerLine of white -
Please apply at www.gleim.com/employment
1-29-15-10-14
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Preschool Teacher Aide need for a Christian 
preschool afternoon shift Monday -Friday. 
DCF 45 hours and experience required. 
Please call 352-373-2901
2-2-15-7-14
ITC Defense seeking reliable student for 10 hrs/wk @ $8.05/hr. Great resume build -
er doing government contract research & social media strategy. Send resumes to: ITCStudent@ITCDefense.com    1-30-15-6-14
Tutor needed for Algebra II
dual enrolled high school student. Female 
preferred,   $15/hr. Please email tboland97@
gmail.com 2-2-4-14 
Interns wanted for marketing/sales/strategy 
positions with 4 year old web-based market-ing company specializing in solving health record and insurance requirement integra -
tion. Currently utilized by 1000's of docs. Could lead to paid position after assessment. Send resume and letter of interest to info@dmeevaluamate.com. 1-30-15-3-14Uf Beef Unit Needs P/T Farm Help.  
UF/SFe student, or High School sr.  Tractor/
cattle exp. preferred.  Weekends/holidays 
required.  Housing available.  352-538-1401    
2-4-5-14
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  
4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college stu-
dents.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/
ww   4-22-14-71-15Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Lax picked to win Big East
The Florida lacrosse team was unanimously picked 
to win the Big East by coaches in the conference.Two softball players on USA Softball Watch List
Senior Lauren Haeger and junior Kelsey Stewart were named to the USA Softball Top 50 Watch List for the Softball Collegiate Player of the Year, the Amateur Softball Association of America announced Wednesday.When Carlie Needles is on the court, her teammates have more confidence. Read the story on Page 16.ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Staff Writer
@EricaAlyssa
The Gators sacrificed blood, 
sweat and tears to scrape out a 
win against the Alabama Crimson Tide and break a three-game los-ing streak on Tuesday.
While coach Billy Donovan 
was pleased with a win, he recog-nized Florida (11-9, 4-3 Southeast-ern Conference) still has a long way to go. 
“The last play, defensively 
they did a nice job,” Donovan said of Dorian Finney-Smith’s game-solidifying play against Alabama 
on Tuesday. “It was good, he took 
the ball to the rim, I liked that he took the ball to the rim and he made a great play.”
The play put Florida up by two 
points for what would be the de-ciding score in the 52-50 win over 
the Crimson Tide (13-7, 3-4 SEC) 
on the road.
But the final play was far from 
representative of the game as a whole. Prior to that, the redshirt junior forward was 0-for-5 from the field with four rebounds.
“I just kept playing,” Finney-
Smith said after the game. “You know, tonight has been a tough night for me but my teammates did a good job
Finney-Smith said he felt like 
the game-changer on Tuesday was Florida fighting back when Alabama threatened to pull ahead.
“We got stops when we needed 
them,” Finney-Smith said. “Hope-fully we can build from that. You know that just shows you how 
much better we’re getting. At 
first we couldn’t get those stops JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
For the past two seasons, Florida baseball 
has had the luxury of seeing Taylor Gushue as the team’s catcher.
Gushue started 111 of Florida’s last 122 
games behind the plate, providing a sense of 
assurance and comfortability to UF’s pitch-
ing staff.
To add to that, Gushue was reliable at the 
plate, posting a career-high .316 batting av-erage in 2014 while leading all Gators in total bases (105), RBI (49), doubles (16), sacrifice flies (11), home runs (six) and slugging per-centage (.467).
But he’s gone now.
Gushue opted to forgo his senior season 
and turn pro after being selected by the Pitts-
burgh Pirates in the fourth round of June’s MLB Draft.
With Gushue gone, one of Florida’s goals 
heading into the season is finding his re-placement.
And coach Kevin O’Sullivan plans to uti-
lize the youth on his roster to fill the void.
Three of the four catchers on Florida’s ros-
ter this season are freshmen, and O’Sullivan 
said each has the opportunity to make an im-
mediate impact.
“To get three really quality guys, we feel 
good about it,” O’Sullivan said.
The most highly touted of the freshmen 
trio is JJ Schwarz.
He was rated as the top high school catch-
er in the state of Florida and the No. 5 catcher 
nationally out of Palm Beach Gardens (Fla.) High by Perfect Game and was drafted in the 
17th round by the Milwaukee Brewers in the 
MLB Draft.
The 6-foot-1 Schwarz finished his senior 
year with a .361 batting average along with 33 RBIs, 15 runs, seven homers and four doubles.
“JJ’s swung the bat really good and he’s 
improved tremendously behind the plate,” O’Sullivan said.
Pitcher Logan Shore said it is a process 
getting used to a new catcher, especially af-ter working with just one person for an en-
tire season.
“It’s just about getting comfortable with 
the different things that they do different 
than Taylor did,” Shore said.The sophomore righty said he has spent 
time away from practice getting to know the three freshmen so that they can be on the same page.“It’s just kind of getting to know my men-
tal process of pitching and getting a feel for what they like to call and what Sully’s going to call,” Shore said.
O’Sullivan looking for Gushue’s replacementUF made 
plays when needed
CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer
@CayUnderwood
After a nearly impeccable 
weekend, the No. 2 Florida wom-
en’s tennis team returned to its home court on Wednesday to face No. 53 South Florida. Florida held a firm lead in all 
six of its first sets in singles play against the Bulls to lock-in a 7-0 win for the Gators.
Florida (3-0) wasted no time 
clinching the doubles point. 
Brianna Morgan and Belinda 
Woolcock soundly defeated op-ponents Alicia Robinson and Juliana Cardoso 6-1 on Court 3. 
With No. 7 
doubles duo 
Brooke Austin 
and Kourtney Keegan clinch-ing the doubles point with a 6-1 victory on Court 1 two minutes later.
Earlier this week, coach Ro-
land Thornqvist was not pleased with the No. 3 courts performance 
against No. 68 Maryland, but after 
Morgan and Woolcock’s perfor-mance against the Bulls (1-3), the coach had a change in tone.
“I was, in particular, interested 
in our No. 3 doubles and how we started the match and they were pretty much flawless the first 10 minutes. They pretty much set the tone,” Thornqvist said. “Belinda 
UF women’s tennis sweeps USF, shows progress in doublesAlligator File Photo
The Gators are looking to replace Taylor Gushue, Florida’s starting catcher throughout 
the past two seasons, after he opted to forgo his senior season in favor of a profes-sional baseball career. UF has four catchers on its staff, three of whom are freshmen.
Thornquist
“To get three really quality guys, 
we feel good about it.”
Kevin O’Sullivan
UF baseball coach 
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15
SEE TENNIS, PAGE 15THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Frazier saw three-point streak snapped
and now we’re starting to collect 
stops.”
Like Finney-Smith, junior 
guard Michael Frazier also strug-gledon the offensive end against 
Alabama, and Donovan said he 
wasn’t surprised. Frazier missed all four shots he took from the field — snapping his school-record 41 straight games with a three-point basket.
“I think he was hurt, and I 
didn’t know if he was going to play (Tuesday) at shoot around. He wasn’t himself with the hip bruise or whatever it was and he just wasn’t himself,” Donovan said of Frazier. “We didn’t really get 
too much from him at all today.”
The Gators got a lot more from 
Chris Walker than they’ve become 
accustomed to. The sophomore forward contributed 12 points in just 17 minutes.
But neither his performance nor 
redshirt junior guard Eli Carter’s team-leading 13 points could im-
prove the overall opinion Dono-van has of his young team. 
Donovan cited the squandering 
of the 13-point lead, and the team’s 
failure to score more than seven points in the opening 12 minutes of the second half as specific ex-amples of where the Gators failed to show up down the stretch. 
“I’m happy we won the game, 
don’t get me wrong, but I was not happy at all with the way we played in the second half,” Donovan said. “But we managed to hang on and make a couple of plays and with the game.”
HOOPS , from page 14
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Michael Frazier II looks to drive to the basket during Florida’s 75-55 win against Auburn on Jan. 15 in 
the O’Connell Center. Frazier’s streak of 41 consecutive games with a three-pointer was snapped when he went 0-of-4 against Alabama on Tuesday. 
 THE ONE-YEAR DEAL IS WORTH $2 MILLION WITH $2.8 MILLION IN PERFORMANCE BONUSES.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI — Ichiro Suzuki has passed his physical and final-
ized a $2 million, one-year contract with the Miami Marlins.
The Marlins made the announcement Tuesday night. His 
deal includes $2.8 million in performance bonuses based on 
plate appearances: $400,000 apiece for 300 and each addition-al 50 through 600.
Suzuki signed the deal in his native Japan. A news confer-
ence will be held there for him Thursday, with five Marlins 
executives present, including president David Samson, presi-
dent of baseball operations Michael Hill and general man-ager Dan Jennings.
The 41-year-old Suzuki, a 10-time All-Star and 10-time 
Gold Glove winner, is expected to be the team’s fourth out-
fielder behind Giancarlo Stanton, Christian Yelich and Mar-
cell Ozuna.
“We are thrilled to have Ichiro Suzuki in a Marlins uni-
form,” Marlins owner Jeffrey Loria said in a statement. “He is 
the ultimate professional on and off the field, and will make 
an excellent addition to our ballclub.”
Suzuki is the first Japanese player to sign with the Marlins. 
He hit .284 and stole 15 bases for the New York Yankees last season.
Suzuki is a career .317 hitter in the majors and a two-time 
AL batting champion. The former AL MVP has 2,844 career hits.Ichiro Suzuki 
passed physical, signs with MarlinsSpencer Liang clinched the match with a win on the No. 6 court
certainly added some pace. Belinda 
played very well and that may have helped (Brianna) in a positive way because she was more explosive, she made less errors as well.”
After securing a 1-0 lead in sin-
gles play, the Gators were deter-mined to show USF who was the better team in the state.
No. 9 freshman Josie Kuhlman 
was the first to secure a point for the Gators in singles play as she de-feated against USF’s Vera Bessono-va (6-2, 6-0).
“It’s funny because I didn’t re-
ally know where I was and I wasn’t watching the scoreboards that much,” Kuhlman said. “I just knew (Belinda) and (Spencer) were close to finishing and I was like ‘Oh, who’s going to finish first.’ I was happy I got to put a point up there because the other day I wasn’t able 
to finish.”
Woolcock then swept USF’s Jes-
sica Cortes-Chaves, 6-1, 6-1, before 
sophomore Spencer Liang clinched the victory on the No. 6 court with a 6-2, 6-1 victory.
Kuhlman was determined to earn a win against the Bulls after struggling in her first singles match of the season against Maryland.
“Today was definitely like play-
ing how I’m used to playing, and it was great to be out there and you know, playing for the Gators,” Kuhlman said. “Going into singles I was really happy with the way I played. I thought I was aggressive and back to playing the way I like to play.”
For Florida, the battle has just 
started this season. 
With plenty of competition ly-
ing ahead in the schedule, it’s fair to say the team will face adversity.
“What we’re going to do is we’re 
actually going to play an Orange and Blue match Friday,” Thornqvist said. “We’ve split the team up four and four, and we’re going to go at it 
internally on Friday. I figured that’s 
the best way to get another match because when they play they get to play some of the best players in the country even though they’re on same team.
“I think we need one more 
(match) where we can film it and view it and after that we will be 
ready.” TENNIS , from page 14
Marley Boerema / Alligator
Spencer Liang dives for a one-handed backhand return during Florida’s 4-0 win against Elon on 
Saturday at the Ring Tennis Complex. Liang clinched Florida’s 7-0 win against South Florida on Wednesday with a two set victory on the No. 6 court. 
“He is the ultimate professional on and off the 
field, and will make an excellent addition to our 
ballclub.”
Jeffrey Loria
Marlins owner16, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
 NEEDLES SCORED A 
SEASON-HIGH-TYING 16 POINTS AGAINST ARKANSAS
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
It has taken awhile, but the 
Gators women’s basketball team is 
finally figuring out how to get the most out of what it has.
Heading into tonight’s match-
up against Missouri at 7 in the O’Connell Center, Florida hopes to employ what the team has learned from the losses. 
The Gators have seen teams beat 
them from the three-point line, forc-ing Florida to work on rotating and closing out on shooters, arguably the team’s biggest weakness.
UF (10-10, 2-5 Southeastern Con-
ference) needs to defend the shots from downtown if the team has any hope of beating a Missouri (11-9, 1-6 SEC) team that loves to shoot from long-range.
 The Gators have an advantage 
this time around that they didn’t have last time, however. 
Carlie Needles was missing from 
Florida’s lineup with a concussion when the Gators faced the Tigers on Jan. 11, a 66-47 loss that saw Florida score its second-lowest point total of the season.
Despite not playing against Mis-
souri, Needles has scouted the Ti-gers’ guards and understands how to beat them.“The most obvious thing is that 
Missouri is an awesome three-point shooting team,” Needles said. “They’re very smart, they set guard-to-guard screens more than other teams do and they’re just always, always moving.”
Missouri leads the SEC in three-
pointers made per game with 7.7 a game. Senior Morgan Eye needs 56 more three-pointers to become the NCAA career leader in the category.
With Needles back in the rota-
tion, the Gators have a chance to upend an opponent that dominated them from the three-point line. 
After holding the Tigers to just 
2-of-12 from three in the first half, Missouri seemingly couldn’t miss after the break. 
The Tigers came out red-hot, hit-
ting 7-of-8 shots from downtown to blow past Florida.
Ronni Williams, Florida’s lead-
ing scorer and first player off the bench, said that having Needles on the court changes the dynamic of the team.
“She brings a great deal of con-
fidence to this team,” Williams said. “With her on the court, we know we’re going to pressure and not worry about anything. As post players we can box out and wait for Carlie to come get the rebound be-cause that’s what she does.”
After shooting 37.5 percent from 
three-point range in non-conference play, Needles is hitting just 29 per-cent of her long-range attempts in SEC games.
For Needles, the key for getting 
the heat back is to just keep shoot-ing.
“As a shooter, that happens,” she 
said. “You have a really good shoot-ing day and then you have a terrible shooting day, and you kinda just have to move past it. You gotta look 
to your teammates to give you confi-dence and help you get your rhythm 
in other places.”
But what gives the team confi-
dence more than anything is win-ning. 
If Florida can string together con-
secutive SEC wins, the Gators might have the momentum to surge into February and possibly turn the sea-son around.
“It felt awesome getting a win,” 
Needles said. “It gives us a little 
more confidence going into Febru-
ary. January was pretty rough, but 
that’s part of the game.”
If Florida hopes to surprise in the 
SEC in the final month of the regular 
season, the Gators will need every-thing to go the team’s way. 
That means defending the three-
point line efficiently, as well as feed-
ing Haley Lorenzen in the post. Lo-renzen’s early scoring set the tone in the opening minutes against Arkan-sas, and it was all Florida for the rest of the game.
Williams said seeing Lorenzen 
knock down early baskets to pounce on Arkansas gave the Gators the confidence to lead wire-to-wire.
“Seeing that happen, we knew 
it was going to be a great night,” Williams said. “We kinda knew we were going to be on top that night. Seeing how well we played and 
were executing everything.”
Return of Needles, victory over Arkansas encouraging Gators
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Carlie Needles calls out a play as she dribbles the ball up the court against Arkansas on Sunday. Needles  
scored a season-high-tying 16 points in her second game since returning from a concussion. 
Location: O’Connell Center 
Time: 7 p.m. ET
TV: SEC Network+
Series Record: Missouri leads 3-0“You gotta look to your 
teammates to give you 
confidence and help you 
get your rhythm in other 
places.”
Carlie Needles
UF women’s basketball player