TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
See more same-sex marriage coverage:
The story and photos continue on inside, pg. 8-9.
Also check out more on the Alligator website, alligator.orgInnovation Academy may delay pre-med, pre-
health students:
Not taking core classes in Fall puts them 
behind, pg. 4. Billy Donovan 
and the UF men’s 
basketball team open 
up SEC play tonight 
after struggling in 
non-conference play. 
Read the story on 
Page 13.
63/26
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13VOLUME 109 ISSUE 75 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015
FLORIDA SAYS “I DO”
GABRIELLA NUÑEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Supermarket giant Publix is 
now offering full insurance bene-ﬁ  ts to married same-sex couples.
According to an internal 
memo, the Lakeland-based com-pany will expand coverage for its health, dental and vision beneﬁ  t plans for employees married in any state where same-sex mar-riage is legal, regardless of the laws where the worker currently lives.
“I think Publix is pushing 
in the right direction by giving same-sex couples beneﬁ  ts hetero-sexual couples receive because marriage equality can only pro-ceed if it is legally and socially accepted,” said Juan Escobar, a 22-year-old UF mechanical engi-neering senior.
With this change, the compa-
ny joins the list of corporations that offer beneﬁ  ts for same-sex couples, including Disney, Winn-Dixie, General Motors and Wal-Mart.
“Publix is such a big part of 
Florida that it’s a really great step for our state,” said Gabriella Lari-os, a 19-year-old women’s studies sophomore and cabinet director of Student Government’s LGBT Student Affairs. “It’s a way to at-tract more people to work there because of greater beneﬁ  ts.”Publix is holding an enroll-
ment period running from Jan. 1 to the end of the month for same-sex married employees. 
Just like heterosexual couples, 
Publix employees must have their marriage certiﬁ  cates and will be required to answer certain ques-tions, including whether they use tobacco products, the statement read.
Publix owns more than 1,000 
grocery stores in Alabama, Geor-gia, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida. The only states that have a Publix and have legalized same-sex mar-riage are North Carolina and, most recently, Florida.
“I think there will deﬁ  nitely 
be some controversy, but not big enough to discourage others,” Larios said. “Plus, now with mar-riage equality in Florida, more companies will have an incentive to provide beneﬁ  ts.”
Publix to offer same-sex spouses insurance benefits
SEE MARRIAGE, PAGE 8
SEE MARRIAGE, PAGE 8
ARIANA FIGUEROA and    EMILY CARDINALI
Alligator Staff Writers aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
ecardinali@alligator.org
Cheers erupted in the chilly air as the 
Alachua County Courthouse’s doors opened shortly after 8 a.m. Tuesday.
Same-sex couples rushed through the 
metal detectors with bright smiles and joy-
ful tears.
Steve Allegra, 63, and partner-of-
24-years John Anderson, 68, were the ﬁ  rst 
couple to be married in Gainesville — the time on their marriage license was stamped 
at 8:33 a.m.
“We didn’t even get there early on pur-
pose,” Allegra said, “It just happened 
that way.” The couple was most eager to ﬁ  nally receive the legal protec-
tion guaranteed to married people 
under the law.
“We’ve spent thousands 
of dollars getting legal docu-mentation that some people might not have even paid 
attention to,” Anderson 
said. “The legal protec-
tion is so important.”
The couple met 
when Allegra was 
looking for a job. An-
derson worked for a 
job service, and they started dating soon after they met. Al-
legra got the job, by the way.
Quintyra White, 24, and her partner of 
six years, Lakindra Ellis, 34, held hands and leaned on one another as they patiently waited to apply for their marriage license.
White said it felt surreal to ﬁ  nally apply.
“This is just a paper,” she said. “In our 
hearts we’re already married.”Ellis said her family was not accepting 
of her relationship with White, but through misty eyes she said her relationship with 
White was worth the pain.
“At the end of the day, I come home to 
her, and she comes home to me. And that’s 
what matters,” she said.
Among the sea of same-sex couples were 
childhood friends Joleen Atwood and Crys-
tal Kelly.
Kelly, 34, and Atwood, 35, were best 
friends in high school and began dating after college. The couple has been together 
for 14 years and has a 3-year-old adopted 
daughter named Amelia.
“We’re a real family just like any other 
family,” Kelly said.
Atwood said they decided not to bring 
their daughter because they were unsure of what the atmosphere would be like at the 
courthouse.
With the marriage license, Atwood 
will ﬁ  nally be able to ofﬁ  cially adopt 
Amelia.
“(The marriage license) is vali-
dation that our lives matter,” she 
said.
Outside of the courthouse, 
United Church of Gainesville 
performed seven marriages, 
said senior minister Shelly 
Wilson.
UCG offered a pre-mar-
ital counseling class on 
Saturday so couples could News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-24232, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
RAIN
74/60PARTLY 
CLOUDY
63/47PARTLY 
CLOUDY
58/36SUNNY
47/33SUNNY
63/26SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.VOLUME 109 ISSUE 75
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris,     
aharris@alligator.org 
Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen,    
icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, emichelle@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan 
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Kristin Letsch    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
jclauson@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Samantha Aponte
 Sales Representatives Trevor Brown, Elena Chow,    
  Amanda Fernandez, Eva Sailly,   
  Ian Shuker, Gabriel Skura,    
  Marcella Tortorici,Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Aubrey Stolzenberg Koenigsmann, vice presi-
dent for mission assurance at SpaceX, said Monday on the eve of launch. “But if you look at it from, I think, almost 150 or so miles up in suborbit, then it looks like a very, very small place to land on.”“I’m going to be super excited if this works,” Koenigsmann noted. But he stressed that he did not want anyone losing sight of the main purpose of 
the Falcon’s mission: to deliv-
er critical supplies to the space station and its six inhabitants.This will be the sixth flight of a 
supply-filled Dragon capsule 
to the orbiting lab. It’s loaded 
more than usual because of an October launch explosion that wiped out another company’s 
delivery effort in October: 
This Dragon is stuffed with 
more than 5,000 pounds of goods, much of it replac-ing items lost on the Orbital 
Sciences Corp. flight.
As for the audacious landing 
experiment, once the first-stage booster has completed its primary job of hoisting Dragon, it’s entirely a SpaceX operation.NASA’s previous delivery attempt, by Orbital Sciences, ended with the launch explo-sion just seconds after liftoff from Wallops Island, Virginia. Researchers who lost experi-ments in the accident — many of them children — hustled to get replacements on this flight. NASA also had to make sure necessary equipment for spacewalking and other crew activity was on board the Dragon, as well as extra food.
—THE ASSOCIATED PRESSWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Meeting with President Fuchs 
concerning Divestment
If you support UF in divest-
ing from companies involved 
in human rights violations both here and abroad, please join UF Students for Justice 
in Palestine at 10:30 a.m. to-
day outside Tigert Hall to demand our new president, Kent Fuchs, to sign on to support divestment from 
companies that profit off of 
the illegal Israeli occupation of Palestine.
“What’s Your Story? Exploring 
Ethnic, Gender, Cultural and Religious Studies at UF”This event reaches out to stu-
dents during drop-add week 
early in Spring 2015 and co-incides with the new term of Dr. Fuchs and with the 
Preeminence Initiative. This 
event is entirely student or-ganized and encourages stu-dents to take courses in these areas. By doing so, we chal-
lenge the UF community to 
find a meaningful answer to the question: “What’s YOUR Story?” — an answer which 
applies its experiences and 
passions for the betterment of the world. There’s a re-source fair in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom starting at 
5:30 p.m. today followed by 
a faculty panel at 6:30 p.m.
View personal collections at 
the 36th Collectors Day on Jan. 10Join the 36th celebration of collectors and collections at the Florida Museum of 
Natural History from 10 a.m. 
to 3 p.m. Saturday. This free event has attracted collectors from across the Southeast for 
more than 30 years. Enjoy 
viewing personal collections and learning the history and context of these treasures from Titanic and Beatles 
memorabilia to classic cars. 
Visit with the collectors and discover that collecting isn’t just for scientists! For more 
information, call 352-273-
2061.
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets Tuesdays Talking Gators meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, 
970 Natural Area Dr., UF 
campus, east of the Harn Museum. For more infor-mation, go to: talkingga-
tors.toastmastersclubs.org. 
Talking Gators also is on Facebook Groups. “The mis-sion of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and 
positive learning experience 
in which members are em-powered to develop com-munication and leadership 
skills, resulting in greater 
self-confidence and per-sonal growth.” All are wel-come.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in 
the subject line to kwig-
gins@alligator.org. To en-sure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 
5 p.m. Please model your 
submissions after above events. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not ap-
pear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
The caption that ran un-
der a photo of two people 
in the stadium on Page 16 
of Monday’s paper had the 
wrong information. The 
caption should have read: 
“Cole Willis (left), a 19-year-old UF business administra-tion sophomore, and Sam 
Mallory, a 19-year-old UF 
accounting sophomore, run 
stadiums in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Monday after-noon. Mallory said he was 
preparing to run a 15k later 
in the year.”
NEWS BRIEFS
SpaceX shoots for launch to 
station, rocket landing on 
barge CAPE CANAVERAL — SpaceX is making an-other supply run to the International Space Station for NASA. But it’s the rock-et’s return — not its takeoff — that has space fans talk-ing.Minutes after Tuesday morning’s planned launch from Cape Canaveral, the first stage of the unmanned Falcon rocket will aim for a vertical test landing on a barge in the Atlantic. The 14-story booster will soar close to 150 miles high, be-fore flying back down and attempting to settle upright on the floating platform — close to the size of a football field.“When you look at it on the ground, I think it’s prob-ably a very, very big plat-form, a big spaceport,” Hans 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
SENATE
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Suspected plagiarism between 
two Student Government appli-
cants at Tuesday night’s Senate meeting sparked debate.
After ﬁ  ve of the nine applicants 
for assistant to the Supervisor of Elections were passed unanimous-ly, four were put into question by Sen. Preston Jones.
Jones noticed two candidates 
—  freshmen Camden Anderson and Ronald Heinkel — had nearly identical platforms. He also said freshmen Henry McClane and 
Chase Mallory had unsatisfactory 
resumes.
“I ﬁ  nd it suspect that (Ander-
son’s and Heinkel’s) application essays are so closely aligned with each other and would be concerned about passing someone who possi-bly committed some sort of plagia-rism,” Jones said.
Sen. Michael Christ suggested a 
no-vote on the motion to induct the group of four, motioning that sena-tors should vote for individual can-didates.
“Sen. Jones clearly has an issue 
with a certain number of appli-cants, and he should be able to voice those and be able to vote on them as should every other member of the 
body,” Christ said.
The vote was not unanimous, but 
split nearly in half, which marked 
the ﬁ  rst division of Senate since De-cember 2013, Christ said.
The motion to vote on individual candidates did not pass, and all four were approved.
Supervisor of Elections Hans 
Rojas said the candidates were nar-rowed down by basic qualiﬁ  cations, including GPA. Candidates also  
had to be full-time students, have no 
political party afﬁ  liation and never have held a leadership position in an SG-funded organization.
Eighteen candidates qualiﬁ  ed 
and were narrowed down by high school experience and knowledge of 700 election codes. Half of the candidates were then selected to be 
viewed by the judiciary committee, 
which chose four to be approved by the Senate.
Chairman of the Rules and Eth-
ics Committee Anthony Sorrentino said he wasn’t surprised the two candidates knew each other. He said the process can be confusing for freshmen, and he understands if they wanted to work together.
“If they are approved, the type 
of teamwork and partnership that 
could be forged through this process 
and have these candidates and ap-plicants potentially come together with the other seven to really build an effective team,” Sorrentino said.
However, Jones said it was en-
couraging to see other senators re-spect his rights as a senator to be able to speak on an issue that he is 
passionate about.
“Senate has become a rubber 
stamp to candidates from the judi-
ciary and executive branches, and I think it’s time that senate reclaims some of its individuality,” he said.
Applications raise plagiarism suspicions at Senate meeting 
PLAN INCLUDES RESIDENCE 
HALLS FOR INNOVATION ACADEMY, STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES.
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
The new year is bringing new buildings 
and new projects to UF.
First on the agenda is Cypress Hall, a new residence hall, which is on track to be complet-
ed and open by Fall 2015, wrote Sharon Blan-sett, assistant to the associate vice president for student affairs, in an email.
Cypress Hall will be on the corner of South-
west 13th Street and Museum Road and will 
include a ﬂ  oor speciﬁ  cally designed to accom-
modate students and visitors with disabilities.
Blansett said UF Department of Housing 
and Residence Education is in a public-private partnership with Signet Enterprises to con-struct another residence hall.
Inﬁ  nity Hall will be used to house In-
novation Academy students and will be lo-cated in the Innovation Square in downtown Gainesville.
“This facility is also on track to be complet-
ed and open by Fall 2015,” Blansett said.
The major construction campaign for UF is 
the Reitz Union, which is predicted to be com-pleted in Fall 2015.
As opposed to the summer, there have not been as many noise complaints from guests, said Reitz Union Hotel guest services coordi-nator Lorna Bouret.   
“It hasn’t been an issue since the summer,” 
she said.
Renovations to the Stephen C. O’Connell 
Center will begin in March and end in Decem-ber of 2015, according to Alligator archives. This change will send Spring graduation cer-emonies to Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. UF construction of Reitz, residence halls still in progressRecSports announced its develop-ment through SnapChat at Tuesday night’s UF Student Senate Meet-ing.
RecSports Director David Bowles 
gave a report on its progress since 2010 to highlight new clubs, ﬁ  t-ness opportunities and hours, as well as boast its more than 700 student hires.
“We feel that we give them one 
of the most intense and effective leadership skills that you can get on campus,” Bowles said.
Bowles stressed the importance 
ﬁ  tness has on a healthy mind and body.
“Exercise is medicine,” he said.ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer afisher@alligator.org
To apply to medical school on 
time, Eliot Gunn had to recon-
figure his schedule for an earlier graduation.
Many medical schools begin 
earlier in the summer than when Innovation Academy’s last semes-ter ends, forcing some, like biol-ogy sophomore Gunn, to graduate early.
“I think that it’s definitely a dis-
advantage,” Gunn, 19, said. “You have to graduate early in order to not have to take a year off after 
school.”
Gunn said he won’t have the 
Fall semester off until 2017, and 
having to take organic chemistry II and physics II during the summer as part of a 17-credit course load is discouraging.
“Pre-health students have to 
do just as much work in a difficult 
course load in less time,” he said. 
“That’s not a problem because we have to study more and time man-age better — that’s the easy part. But we can’t be as involved out-side the classroom. We don’t have equal time, so there’s no way you can be as competitive as someone who is taking these classes in the 
Spring and Fall and have those ex-tra two or three weeks where they 
can be involved in clubs and hon-ors fraternities.”
Jeff Citty, Innovation Academy 
director, said the schedule could actually give pre-health students 
an advantage.
“Because many (students) take 
the exams in the fall semester, if 
they’re not taking any classes, they can focus on taking the MCAT or the PCAT,” Citty said. “They can take advantage of focusing their attention on the test.”
IA also refers students to UF’s 
pre-health advisers who know what medical schools are looking for and can determine an expected graduation date and the best time to take entrance exams, Citty said.
“We want to see if they can be 
done the Spring of their senior year so they can matriculate into medical school after their senior 
year,” said Bobby Knickerbocker, 
one of the advisers.
She said the advisers have 
worked significantly with pre-health IA students since the pro-gram started to make sure they don’t feel like they’re at a disad-vantage.
“We try very hard to help them 
meet their goals,” Knickerbocker said. “Is that 100 percent success-ful? Not all the time. A lot of that depends on their academic per-formance at the university level. It just depends. It’s very individual-ized.”Gunn said he voiced his con-
cern and proposed different sce-narios, but there has been no direct action.“It’s just putting us one step 
back when we’re just trying to get ahead,” he said. “It doesn’t make sense.”
4, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015
Alligator File Photo
Former UF President Bernie Machen addresses students at the convocation of the Innovation Acad-
emy in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Jan. 4, 2013.
CAMPUSInnovation Academy may delay pre-health, pre-med students
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Florida Gov. Rick Scott declared 
this week as Florida First Responder 
Appreciation Week.
The announcement came after the 
murder of two Florida police offi-
cers — Tarpon Springs Police Officer 
Charles Kondek and Leon County Sheriff’s Deputy Christopher Smith — were killed last month.
Anti-police sentiment has become 
a prominent issue following the kill-ings of young black men by white police officers across the U.S. The deaths of Michael Brown and Eric 
Garner have sparked protests na-
tionwide.
In a statement regarding the des-
ignation, Scott encouraged “all Flo-ridians to take time out of their day to show first responders and their families how much we value their service.”
Scott also urged Floridians to 
pray for the protection and safety of first responders, saying “each loss of a law enforcement officer is heart-breaking and losing two heroes in less than a month is a cry for peace.”
Both Gainesville Police and the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office ex-pressed gratitude toward Scott for the announcement.
Sheriff’s Office spokesman Art 
Forgey said the agency is happy that Scott is doing “something positive for law enforcement.”
“The public sentiment towards law enforcement — not so much all first responders but especially to-wards law enforcement — has been very negative lately,” Forgey said.
In recent months, police brutality 
and corrupt officers have been fo-cal points of the Black Lives Matter movement.
Forgey said the agency does ac-
knowledge the fact that corrupt offi-cers do exist within law enforcement. 
But, he said, a few corrupt police 
officers don’t represent all of law enforcement, in the same way that a few extreme protesters don’t repre-sent all protestors.
When asked if he thinks anti-
police sentiment is high in Alachua, 
Forgey said he doesn’t believe it is, 
crediting the progressive mindset and young population in the county.
“I believe people are well-educat-
ed enough to realize there are bad (people) in every dynamic and every 
group… (but) there are also good 
(people),” he said.
Both Forgey and GPD spokesman 
Ben Tobias said the agencies have been more cautious than usual.
GPD officers, while still being ex-
tra cautious, are thankful they can rely on each other as well as support from the community, Tobias said.
“As police officers in general, 
we’re always watching our backs and always watching out for each other,” Tobias said.  “But if cops keep getting killed very close to home, it makes us watch our backs that much more.”Scott designates week 
for first responders EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
A Williston teenager was killed Monday 
night after hitting a traffic sign with his car in 
Marion County.
Jonathen Joseph Stuart Bishop, 17, was driv-
ing a 2004 Dodge Ram on County Road 318 
when he turned and collided with a road sign 
minutes before 10 p.m., according to a crash re-port. The car continued moving until crashing into a tree.
A Marion County Fire Rescue paramedic 
pronounced Bishop dead shortly after at 10 p.m., according to the report.
Bishop was not wearing a seatbelt, and in-
vestigators are not sure if alcohol was involved.“It’s so sad. He was only 17,” said Florida 
Highway Patrol spokeswoman Sgt. Tracy Hisler-Pace.
Bishop was a junior at Williston High School 
where he played on the school’s football team.
His death was the second fatal crash of 2015, 
following a crash on Friday when an elderly man collided with another car.
Marion County had 57 highway fatalities 
during 2014, 21 of which involved a lack of seatbelts, according to Florida Highway Patrol.
On its Facebook page, Williston High School 
expressed shock and sadness “by the loss of life 
of one of our students.”
“Please keep the family in your prayers,” 
the page read.Williston High football player 
killed after hitting traffic sign
STATE
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI — Driven by fear 
that their window is closing, 
the number of Cuban migrants attempting to reach the U.S. il-legally in rafts has surged since 
the two countries announced 
they would restore diplomatic relations after 50 years, Coast Guard officials said Monday.
U.S. authorities have cap-
tured, intercepted or chased away 421 Cubans since Dec. 17, mostly in the Florida Straits, said Lt. Cmdr. Gabe Somma, 
spokesman for the Coast Guard’s 7th District in Miami.
In all of December 2013, 
the total number of Cuban mi-grants who encountered U.S. 
law enforcement while trying to reach the U.S was nearly half that — just 222.
And just before the an-
nouncement of the U.S.-Cuba detente — from Dec. 1 to Dec. 16 — only 132 Cubans were kept from reaching U.S. shores.
Some Cubans recently told 
The Associated Press that they were thinking about speeding up their plans to get to the U.S., but others cautioned against at-tempting the dangerous cross-ing when it’s still unclear how U.S. law may change.
“I’m crazy to leave, but I’m 
not going to throw myself into the sea, I’m not going to do it,” Juan Moreno, 34, said in Ha-vana on Monday.
The Coast Guard says the 
significant increase in the num-ber of Cuban migrants has been prompted by rumors that an 
abrupt end is coming as soon 
as Jan. 15 to the so-called wet foot-dry foot policy that usually shields Cubans from deporta-tion if they reach U.S. shores.Coast Guard reports surge in 
Cubans trying to reach FloridaWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Andres Leiva /Alligator Staff
Don’t Sneeze
Chris Gray, a 22-year-old UF food and resource economics senior, pulls a block from a Jenga tower 
outside the Reitz Union on Tuesday morning. The tower was part of a Young Life ministry outreach` so members of the group could interact with potential members and new students.
SANTA FE
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College Student Government 
will hold its first Senate meeting of the year today at 4 p.m.
One of the topics that needs a resolution 
this term within Santa Fe’s Student Govern-ment is the possible impeachment of its Sen-ate president, Jeremy Pierce.
The resolution to impeach Pierce will 
have to be resubmitted to the agenda list after being taken off during the final Sen-ate meeting of 2014, said Internal Affairs Director Benjamin Myers and Sen. Connor Levine. Levine asked to allow Senate to ad-journ early so senators could have time to study for finals.  When the vote was 
passed, it marked the second week in a row the Senate failed to vote on Pierce’s impeachment.  
Pierce has been under 
criticism by senators in re-cent months for allegedly 
threatening to remove 
senators from their positions — allegations that Pierce says are not true.
Support for Pierce has been mixed. In 
early November, senators voted 24-22 they had “no confidence” in Pierce.
Despite all of the criticism, Pierce said he 
has remained confident that he will stay in his position.Senators have said it is unclear whether 
the original impeachment resolution will be voted back onto the agenda list. Myers said it is a possibility that a new resolution will be written.
“As it is, we’re pretty much going to 
have to write a new one because other stuff has come to light,” Myers said, declining to comment any further.
Elections are also beginning to be dis-
cussed among senators, Levine and Chief Justice Kyle Ramirez said.  
However, they would not mention who 
the potential candidates are.
Ramirez also discussed his main goal for 
this semester, which is leaving Student Gov-ernment in a better condition than it was when he first took office.
“When I got into the office there was 
nothing for me to go by. I had nobody to shadow or teach me or tell me what my role or job is,” Ramirez said.
“I had to figure it all out and basically 
reinvent the wheel on so many things and practices,” he added.
Sen. Caleb Lewis said that elections 
would be different this year compared to last year’s election.
Previously, students could vote online 
or at booths on campus and at satellite loca-tions. This year, he said, students will still be able to vote online and at booths where lap-tops will be replacing scantron-like pieces of paper.
Santa Fe Student Senate to address impeachment againTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
PIKEVILLE, Ky. — A pri-
vate liberal arts college in Kentucky says it will make video games an official sport 
and start offering scholarships 
to gamers in the Fall.
The move makes Univer-
sity of Pikeville one of only 
a few schools in the nation 
to provide scholarships to 
those who play “League of 
Legends,” a multiplayer on-line battle game, according to WYMT-TV Mountain News.
“It’s actually becoming a 
worldwide trend,” Bruce Par-sons, the university’s new me-dia director, said. “This game is five-on-five competitive 
play. It takes skill, practice and a lot of teamwork.”
Parsons said the school is 
dedicated to providing differ-
ent types of technology to its students.
“I think there are going to 
be a lot of students, both na-tionwide and international, who are going to look at our university who wouldn’t have before,” Parsons said of Pikeville, a small school.
Graduate Eric VanHoose 
said he is ready to coach the game, which he described as players competing “to try and get to the other person’s 
base.”
Pikeville plans to offer 20 
scholarships when it begins 
“League of Legends” compe-tition play in the fall.Gamers rejoice: new
gaming scholarship
AP Photo
Florida Gov. Rick Scott waves after swearing in for his second term as governor of Florida at the Florida state 
capital in Tallahassee on Tuesday. The inauguration took place in front of the Old Capitol.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TALLAHASSEE — Florida 
Gov. Rick Scott began his sec-ond term Tuesday with the same promise he made when he took office four years ago — to keep government small, lower taxes and create jobs by making the state more busi-ness friendly.
Scott was sworn in outside 
Florida’s Old Capitol two months after beating Republi-can-turned-Democrat former Gov. Charlie Crist with less than half the votes cast. 
He took credit for Florida’s 
recovery from the Great Re-cession and said he would continue to make the state a place that attracts businesses and new residents.“You have heard me con-
stantly talk about jobs since 2010 when I got into the race. I can promise you I’m not go-ing to stop,” Scott said. “Jobs have been my focus my last four years. Jobs will be my mission the next four years.”
Cannons boomed outside 
the historic building after Scott took his oath in front of several hundred people. Scott told the crowd he achieved a 2010 campaign promise of creating 700,000 jobs in seven years. 
What he didn’t say was 
that he actually promised to create 700,000 jobs above the million jobs state economists said would be created regard-less of who was governor.Gov. Rick Scott sworn 
in to second termPierce
Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Making sense of 
the universe with 
new planets
One of the few universal human experiences is the awe 
and bewilderment you feel when looking deeply into the night sky.
Attempting to make sense of the twinkling lights that ap-
pear every night has been an obsession of our species for as long as any records have existed to show it. You can see it in star charts, the stories behind constellations, cheesy late-
night conversations and that one scene in “The Lion King.” 
Our own government has spent billions — BILLIONS — of dollars in an attempt to comprehend the night sky. All of these attempt to answer two questions: What the hell is out there? And does any of it look anything like us?
In the brief time that science has existed, close inspec-
tion of the planets in our own solar system has been disap-pointing, insofar as we found neither aliens nor any places we could flee to after we inevitably screw up Earth beyond 
repair.
But yesterday, a glimmer of hope flashed in the lens of a 
NASA telescope.
Actually, it flashed three times.
Scientists made the following announcement Tuesday 
to the American Astronomical Society: NASA’s Kepler telescope has found three planets that could be capable of sustaining life, bringing the total number to eight. In other words: We might have company.
The three new planets were spotted by the supermassive 
satellite-mounted telescope Kepler. They have joined five other previously discovered planets that resemble our own. It’s an exciting discovery that shows we might not be alone in the universe after all. Granted, there are probably way, 
way more than eight of these planets out there. 
All eight of the planets theoretically capable of sustaining 
life were found using a system where scientists look for what 
they’ve whimsically named “Goldilocks” planets. It works 
with the idea that in order to sustain life, planets must exist 
a certain distance from their stars. If it’s too far away, every-thing will freeze to death; if it’s too close, everything on the surface will burn up in an unforgiving hellfire. The secret to life, and the source of the pun, is that planets must be at 
a distance that’s “just right” if things want to live on them.
With that in mind, it wouldn’t be far-fetched to say 
the planets NASA just found are more hospitable than 
Gainesville will be tonight and Thursday. WRUF predicts 
that temperatures tonight will fall in the mid-20s, but with 
the wind that will be howling through town it’ll feel like 14 degrees. It should warm up a little bit during the day, but it’ll still be insanely cold. Get a coat and some gloves if you don’t already have them, and stay warm, Gators.It’s time for Boehner to get the boot
With a new year and a new majority in Congress, Re-
publicans have promised to enact a lot of change and switch from defiance to governance. The new 
Congress met for the first time Tuesday. Senators held a vote to determine a new speaker of the House. Many Re-
publicans sought to depose incumbent and newly re-elected 
House Speaker John Boehner, a dream that failed to come to fruition. While it is a well-known fact that Sen. Mitch McCo-nnell, R-Kentucky, will serve as the Senate majority leader, the election of the new speaker was supposedly up in the air. Or at least it should have been. Time and time again we hear Republicans proclaiming that they are the right party to lead America, but when they got the opportunity to choose a proper leader they failed to live up to their promise of a 
new era of governance. 
It seems as if their trend of saying one thing but doing 
another will continue into 2015 as we once again have Rep. 
Boehner, R-Ohio, serving as the speaker of the House. Back in November, Republicans met behind closed doors shortly after the elections to prematurely select Boehner to serve as the speaker again. This meeting offered no other alterna-tives, and in a recent statement from a Boehner aide it was announced that Boehner “expects to be elected by the whole 
House next week.” It’s disappointing that such a big deci-
sion was made behind closed doors, especially when the Af-fordable Care Act was passed in the same way. Regarding the lack of transparency about the development of the act, Boehner was quick to ask, “Can you say it was done openly, with transparency and accountability? Without backroom deals and struck behind closed doors hidden from the peo-ple? Hell, no, you can’t.” For Boehner to use that same se-crecy now is deceptive and insincere, but he is too entitled 
to see his own missteps. 
Luckily, some Republicans took their jobs seriously and 
were willing to defy party leadership for the good of Amer-
ica and to overturn Boehner’s preselection. The first repre-sentative to publicly oppose entrenched leadership was our very own Rep. Ted Yoho, who has represented Florida’s 3rd Congressional District since 2013 when he defeated 24-year incumbent Cliff Stearns in a heated primary battle. Taking to social media last week to lead the charge to replace Boehner, Yoho said, “If we are serious about re-gaining the trust of the American people and getting our country 
back on track, then we must do what is necessary to change the current state of affairs.” Yoho volunteered himself as an alternative candidate for speaker of the House, receiving two votes in Tuesday’s election. 
Once Yoho challenged Boehner, not many were far be-
hind in supporting change. Rep. Jim Bridenstine from Okla-homa’s 1st Congressional District has publicly stated that he would not vote for Boehner and instead supports Yoho. Bridenstine said “Congressman Ted Yoho is a courageous 
leader. I applaud and respect him for standing up to offer 
an alternative to the status quo.” Alongside Bridenstine and Yoho, at least nine other congressmen openly stated that they would not be voting for John Boehner before Tues-day’s election. This was a valiant effort and I applaud the 25 members who voted against Boehner yesterday, but, unfor-tunately, at least 29 members were needed to defect against him. 
For as long as President Barack Obama has been in office, 
we’ve consistently heard Republicans bash his leadership and approaches to solving problems. These concerns are legitimate, but to ignore your own leadership’s transgres-sions is hypocritical. When Republicans had the opportuni-ty to change their leadership   — especially when 60 percent 
of GOP voters supported the idea of a new speaker — but then willingly re-elected a disappointing incumbent, the ar-gument against President Obama becomes much harder to make. 
Before taking on the president and other Democrats, Re-
publicans need to get their own house in order. Anything less is shameful and doesn’t represent what voters desire to see happen in Congress. Good policy starts with good lead-ers, and by re-electing Boehner to lead the GOP-controlled House and America, I’m certain we’ll again see dysfunction and disarray instead of results and progress.
Nick Eagle is an economics and political science senior.
37 TOTAL VOTES28% YES
72% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgMonday’s question: Did you watch the 
“The Interview”?Today’s question: Do you think same-sex couples 
should get health benefits? 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORNick Eagle
opinions@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 7On Dec. 17, President Barack Obama 
announced the long-awaited release of U.S. Agency for International De-
velopment contractor Alan Gross from a Cu-ban prison. Gross, who was in Cuba to bring 
communications equipment to marginalized 
religious organizations, had been accused by Cuba of working for U.S. intelligence agen-cies and held captive since 2009. Gross was released alongside a U.S. intelligence agent in exchange for the members of the Cuban Five spy network remaining in American prisons — a swap Cuba had long desired and that Gross himself had endorsed. The release of the 
Cuban Five was met with outrage from much 
of the Cuban exile community, as the Five had been convicted of conspiracy to commit mur-der in connection with the deaths of members of the Brothers to the Rescue activist group, who flew Cuban raft migrants to safety on U.S. soil. In addition to the prisoner swap, a far more shocking announcement was made: The American and Cuban governments would be 
taking this opportunity to re-establish diplo-
matic relations after more than five decades.
The unexpected policy shift has divided 
communities and political parties across the country. A poll by Bendixen & Amandi In-ternational conducted the day following the announcement showed that the Cuban-Amer-ican community is divided nearly evenly on the issue, with 44 percent supporting normal-
izing relations and 48 percent opposing. This 
difference plays out on a primarily genera-tional level, with Cuban-born exiles opposing the policy shift 53 percent to 38 percent and their U.S.-born descendants supporting it 64 percent to 33 percent. As a Cuban-American, I have had a chance to see this divide in my own family: An 80-something member of my abuela’s generation emailed pho-toshopped pictures of President 
Obama kissing Raul Castro with Spanish cap-
tions condemning the change as a giveaway to the regime, while my mother and others in her generation who emigrated at a very young age have expressed their optimism that opening up to the Cuban people might open the path to political change. Personally, I agree with the younger generation, but the concerns of older Cubans that this reset may merely strengthen 
the Castros should not be dismissed lightly.
As with all things, stark differences in 
opinion have manifested themselves in the 
political arena as well. Unlike most issues, however, the division cuts across party lines. Several high-profile Democrats, like Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Rob-ert Menendez, D-New Jersey, as well as Re-publicans like Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Florida, 
have come out strongly against the president’s 
new policy. Other Democrats, like Hillary Clinton, are supportive of the move, as are a number of Republicans including Sens. Rand Paul, R-Kentucky., and Jeff Flake, R-Arizona, — the latter of whom went to Cuba to retrieve Gross at the request of the administration.
Detractors of President Obama’s proposal 
voice many legitimate concerns: The policy 
shift did not ask the Castros to make any move 
toward democracy, and the reset is rooted in the president’s view — widely dismissed as naïve — that simply talking to dictators will improve things, but these concerns do not detract from the correctness of this course of action. For decades, the Castro brothers have used the American embargo and the specter of Yan-qui imperialism as a scapegoat for the failures of communist eco-
nomics and justification for the restrictions on free speech and other human rights abuses committed by the regime.
With the Cold War over, the international 
support that would have been needed to fully isolate Cuba and coerce policy changes has evaporated and with it any rationale for main-taining our current policy of embargo and non-interaction. Sanctions against regime of-
ficials and the Cuban military remain justified, 
but the blanket restrictions today serve only to impoverish the Cuban people and validate the delusional worldview of a decrepit dictator-ship. Removing barriers to trade and free flow of information from our side of the Straits of Florida will make it clear to the Cuban people and the world that the Castros — not the U.S. — are to blame for the suffering and oppres-
sion on the island. A free flow of goods and 
ideas would also expose ordinary Cubans to the free and prosperous society that their brethren in Miami and elsewhere enjoy, and it could spark the same desire for reform that the people behind the Iron Curtain in Eastern Europe felt 30 years ago.
With the rhetoric of the Castro brothers and 
the history of the fall of communism elsewhere 
in the world in mind, statements from many 
who oppose Obama’s policy shift, especially from Rubio, are puzzling. In an interview on Fox News, Rubio said, “This notion that some-how being able to travel more to Cuba, to sell more consumer products, the idea that’s going to lead to some democratic opening is absurd.” This sentiment, at best, shows an ignorance of the influence that American cultural ideals have had on promoting freedom around the world when spread by economic interactions, 
and at worst betrays a cynicism for America’s 
ability to compete in the marketplace of ideas.
Around the world, people have been in-
spired to strive for freedom by American films and music and the allure of American goods. Even in modern dictatorships, American cul-tural products are widely coveted, often cre-ating headaches for local officials when they support subversive ideas. Provided that the 
regime doesn’t act to block trade from its side, 
opening the doors to travel and trade with Cuba will only lead to greater levels of cul-tural interaction. When pitted against dictator-ship and communism, the values promoted by American cultural products will win every time. It is profoundly disappointing that Ru-bio and other purported believers in the good kind of American exceptionalism either don’t 
realize or don’t believe that’s true.
For the 11 million residents of Cuba to 
prosper and be free, the Castro regime must 
end. Five decades of a unilateral American embargo have failed to provide the pressure needed to destroy the dictatorship, and it is high time to try a new tack. If the Cuban dic-tatorship is giving us an opportunity to open our markets to them, we should seize it. If the 
goods flow, ideas will too, and in the market-
place of ideas, freedom will always win.
James Alver writes for the Harvard Politi-
cal Review. This column originally appeared on UWire.
Restored US-Cuban relations and the marketplace of ideasUWire
James Alver
UWireDuring our life-
times, members of our gen-
eration have witnessed events that will define the 21st cen-tury. Some of these moments feel very close to home — the 9/11 at-
tacks, for example. Others seem far 
away and disconnected from us. 
However, regardless of how it 
may feel, our lives are incredibly 
interconnected. The decisions we make at UF have an impact on the world far beyond campus. Our tu-ition dollars can go toward environ-mental sustainability, economic jus-tice and racial equality; or, they can 
go toward companies that engage in 
unethical activities and profit off of 
social injustices.
A huge injustice is being com-
mitted as you read this article — the 
plight of the Palestinians is one of the greatest human rights tragedies in modern history, one that has re-
sulted in millions of refugees and 
perpetual conflict in the area. Ille-gal settlements are being built over farmlands and homes; loved ones 
are separated by a series of walls 
and checkpoints; basic necessities are limited; people are jailed indefi-nitely and tortured. 
I am not asking those who read this article to take a po-sition on everything re-lated to the Israeli-Pales-
tinian conflict. However, 
I feel the need to call attention to the 
fact that our tuition dollars carry weight: Do you feel comfortable 
knowing that your money may be 
going toward companies that are complicit in these human rights vio-lations?
Companies like Caterpillar, Bob-
cat, SodaStream, G4S Secure Solu-tions and others are part of an “oc-cupation economy” in which the unethical and even illegal activities 
of a government are sustained and 
supplied by international corpora-tions. Some of these companies are involved in social injustices else-where — Elbit Systems, for example, 
constructs walls along the U.S.-Mex-
ico and India-Pakistan borders. 
Companies like these make a 
profit off the separation of family 
members. They get rich off of politi-
cal strife and conflict. If UF wants to be an ethical, globally minded insti-tution or claim political neutrality, then we must divest ourselves of 
companies that are directly involved 
in such unethical activities.
Amanda Nelson is a member of UF 
Students for Justice in Palestine.Call to UF: Cut ties with 
anti-Palestine community Guest column
I bet I can predict at least one 
of your New Year’s resolu-tions: working out more, eating 
healthier, losing weight? If I was right, it’s nothing to be ashamed of. 
This time of year brings a tsunami 
of reflection that inspires change. This specific tsunami, however, is fueled by a toxic epidemic that has taken hold of our soci-ety: thin privilege. On the flip side of discrimi-nation rests a collection of benefits known as privilege. 
For white people who lived in the Jim Crow 
era, it provided the right to vote, access to bet-
ter facilities and generous assumptions about 
class and education levels. 
For thin people today, privilege imparts 
preferential treatment in the job sector; per-ceptions of stronger and more focused person-alities; and freedom from daily humiliation and discrimination. Did you know that until protests in 2013 caused declining sales, Ab-ercrombie and Fitch refused to make XL and 
XXL clothing for women because they wanted 
to cater to the “cool kids”?
Are you aware that size discrimination in 
the workplace is legal in every state except Michigan?
Have you ever realized the main characters 
of many comedy series — such as Peter Griffin on “Family Guy” or Homer Simpson on “The Simpsons” — are overweight and happen to 
be the laughingstock of the show? 
Thin privilege: It’s hidden everywhere. 
Overweight people in our society take the 
brunt of jokes, are more likely to be labeled as lazy and are believed to lack self-discipline. Meanwhile, slim people avoid most of this hu-
miliation and discrimination. 
Thin privilege in America is overlooked 
because thinness is iconic. Models in com-mercials are strikingly lean. Law-
yers advertising on billboards are almost always well-built. Chuck Norris and most people featured on exercise equipment infomer-
cials are incredibly muscular and, 
now that I think about it, even the 
Allstate guy — Dennis Haysbert — is pretty fit. 
The constant appearance of thin people in 
advertising leads to the acceptance of a flawed idea that thin people are more fashionable, ac-tive, educated and professional. As a result, thin people across the board are assigned these 
traits. 
In a 2011 study by Manchester University 
and Monash University, researchers provid-
ed participants with resumes and pictures of women either before or after weight loss sur-gery. 
Without knowing the aim of the study, the 
participants then answered a questionnaire as if they were potential employers. The post-
weight loss pictures were subsequently award-
ed larger starting salaries, an increased chance of being hired and greater assumed leadership skills. That’s thin privilege at its finest. 
Of course, eating better and exercising more 
are great New Year’s resolutions, but make sure you fulfill them because you want to be healthier. Don’t be motivated to avoid weight biases and seek unjust privilege. Let’s disman-
tle the prejudice that yields this discrimination 
and privilege. 
Ask your legislator to ban size discrimina-
tion in the workplace. Avoid Abercrombie. Thin privilege and its effects go unnoticed be-cause they’re everyday occurrences we just ac-
cept. Let’s not.
Christopher Wilde is a freshman biochemistry 
major.The hidden truth about thin 
privilege and how you can helpGuest column
Christopher 
Wilde
Speaking OutAmanda Nelson
Speaking Out WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015
LEFT
Quintyra White, 24, and Lakindra Ellis, 34, wait for their turn to apply to receive a marriage li-
cense in the Alachua County Family/Civil Justice Center.
RIGHT
From left: Sky Levi, 22, Joy Drawdy, 45, and Kat Drawdy, 44, embrace after the same-sex couple received their marriage license. In addition to marrying Levi’s biological mother, Joy will also legally adopt him.
BELOW
From left: Shanti Cruz, 29, Kentucky Costellow, 30, and Chelsea Carnes, 26, laugh together at the Pride Center’s celebration party. “I feel like today is a day for Florida to feel proud,” Carnes said.
BOTTOM LEFT
A group of some of the ﬁ  rst same-sex couples to apply for marriage licenses in Gainesville pose for a photo.
BOTTOM MIDDLE
An employee of the Alachua County Family/Civil Justice Center marries couple Steve Allegra, 63, (left) and John Anderson, 68. Allegra said he was glad that his 24-year-long wait for the day he could marry Anderson was over.
BOTTOM RIGHT
Sallie Harrison (left), an activist with the Pride Community Center of North Florida, smiles at Carol Jordan, also a Gainesville activist, at the Pride Center’s celebration party Tuesday night. “People ﬁ  nally feel like human beings,” Jordan said.
FRONT PAGE
Steve Allegra, 63, and John Anderson, 68 -- the ﬁ  rst same-sex couple to be wed in Alachua County -- kiss during their wedding ceremony.Photos by Andres Leiva 
waive the three-day waiting period. Wilson said 14 couples took the class and the church has already received ﬁ  ve reservations to perform marriage ceremonies.
“We believe all people have the right to marry the person they lov e,” she said.
Later that night, the Pride Community Center of North Central Florida held a 
celebration, and several couples who were married that day were present, includ-ing Allegra and Anderson. Everyone mingled with friends and drank champagne and wine out of clear plastic glasses under silver and blue streamers draped from the ceiling.  
“It’s been such a long time coming,” said Linda Bassham, co-president of the  
center. She and her partner, Janet Woods, were married earlier Tuesday. They 
had a civil union in Vermont in 2003, but had been seeing each other for 
a few years before then. Friends since 1991, they met while both mem-
bers of the National Organization for Women.
“There’s a number of people here who are not LGBT members 
of the community, but they are supportive,, and they are here 
to celebrate with us because they are happy for us,” she said. 
“To me it’s a very important thing to have community sup-
port.”
MARRIAGE , from page 1BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
Windsor Park-3/3. 2nd fl, wash/dry. FM look-
ing for 2 roommates. Own B/B, on bus stop 
near UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $350/mo 
+ 1/3 util. 407-810-3489    1-20-14-17-1
$340 room in 4/2 2 blocks from UF. $1200 whole apt. Close to bank, stores, downtown, 
eateries. Furnished rooms have bed dresser 
and desk. Tile floors. Small complex with 
pool. 352-283-8777    1-21-14-15-1
BEST DEAL IN TOWN - Room across cam-
pus for ladies only. - $325/mo.  #1 location for 
all bus routes. Resort-style living at University 
Commons. Rent includes cable & WIFI. Call 
Belle 352-328-2477    1-20-14-11-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Full -size hot 
tub on screened porch, W/D provided, privacy 
fenced backyard, dishwasher, etc. $1660/mo 3413 
NW 8th Ave. GainesvilleQualityRentalHouses.
com 352-339-2342    1-9-14-4-2
5BR/2BA House available Aug 1st. Short 
walk to bus stop, large yard for fun or garden, 
fireplace, dishwasher, game room, central 
heat/air, W/D. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo text or call 352-339-2342    1-9-14-4-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2
Custom 2BDRM 1Bath Within 1 1/2 mi UF&Shands Tiled liv rm & kit area Newly car-peted BDRMS w/ceiling fans Upgraded Bath Like new stainless kit appl W/D Cent H/A Internet/cable avail Owner pays water pest contrl lawn main security lights Near bus rte Sorry no pets $680/mo. Call 727-423-9463    1-9-15-3-2One bedroom, one bath for rent in
2 bedroom town house at Mill Pond 
with pool and tennis court, across from 
Gainesville health and fitness on Newberry 
Road, near the Oaks Mall.
Prefer UF male student.
$650/month, utilities included in rent.
Call 813-650-3218
1-9-15-3-2
Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2
Available Aug 1st. 3BR/1BA house, 9 blks from campus, W/D provided, very private backyard, dishwasher, hardwood floors, etc. Text/call 352-339-2342 $1100/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-9-15-3-2
Available Aug 1st 3BR/2BA nice house, 1 blk from campus. W/D provided, hardwood floors & tile, dishwasher, central H/A, etc. 110 SW 12th St. $1350/mo. Text/call 352-339-2342. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-9-15-3-2
Available Aug 1st studio, 1 blk from campus, W/D is in unit, working fireplace, hardwood floors. $525/mo, 106 SW 12th St. Call/text 352-339-2342 for more info. gainesvillequali -
tyrentalhouses.com    1-9-15-3-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $95000 Dodge Intrepid $130092 Toyota Camry $175091 Chevy Blazer $699352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 1-9-14-73-13 This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,Entry LevelPaid TrainingAccess To Reliable Transportation And 
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled  $8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    1-9-14-11-14
Looking for homework coach for 13 yr in Gainesville,M-Th 1 hr a day, help with or-ganization. Must have a background in ed or a student in the college of ed.email CindySimonsBennett@gmail.com   1-20-14-10-14
12, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015
Accounting students
wanted for tax season .
Local accounting firm needs
tax preparers and book keeping help
starting soon. Exp required.
Build your resume and
gain on the jobexperience.
Fax resume to 352-337-0040.
1-13-15-5-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-21-15-10-14
CHOCOLATE CONSULTANT
See www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description.E-mail resume and day/year-round avail -
ability to info@thornebrookchocolates.com.    1-13-15-5-14
Sun Country Sports is accepting
applications for all depts., incl. rock-climbing, 
swim, summer camp, parties, gymnastics,
cleaning & more! Apply today at
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.html.
1-13-15-5-14
Homework coach wanted for 7th grade boy with Aspergers. Tues, and Thurs, 3:30-5:30 preferred, Pick up from school or bus, home-work at library, drop off at home. $10/hour. E-mail qualifications to:ceramix@cerazone.net    1-12-15-4-14
OFFICE ASSISTANTNo experience. Medical billing office. Computer savvy a plus. 20 hrs minimum, $8.10/hr. Flex hours. CV & your schedule ASAP, oma.office@yahoo.com    1-21-15-10-14OPUS COFFEEWe are searching for fun and active students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website,
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.       1-23-15-12-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply 
in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 
SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14, 
EXTENDED DAY
ENRICHMENT PROGRAM 
IS NOW HIRING
ALACHUA COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOLS
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM
VARIOUS LOCATIONS
****ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH
OUTDOOR GAMES/ SPORTS - $10//hr
BA desired or successful exp. working with
children.
****CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS
& CRAFTS - $10/hr
BA desired or successful exp. working with
children.
Hours required - M,T, Th, F - 12:45-5:30PM
Wed. 12:30-5:30PM
DRUG TESTING REQUIRED-
BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED -
AA/EOE
For more information call : 352-955-7766
Apply online www.sbac.edu
1-14-15-6-14Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
New Poll Question
Will the UF men’s basketball team reach the NCAA Tournament? Cast 
your vote online at alligatorSports.org.UF track starts on top
Both UF track and ﬁ  eld teams open the indoor season ranked No. 1 in the USTFCCCA preseason national team computer rankings, which were released Tuesday.Kytra Hunter and UF gymnastics is ready to face the pressures of a tough season. Read the story on Page 14.ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Staff Writer @EricaAlyssa
 The bar is set unexpectedly 
high for Florida’s ﬁ  rst South-eastern Conference game of the season. The Gators (7-6) will face South Carolina (9-3) in Columbia at 7 p.m. 
Though the Gators have not 
lost to the Gamecocks since Jan. 15, 2011 when Florida fell to 
South Carolina in Gainesville 
72-69, the Gamecocks are poised favorites to come away with the win from tonight’s game.
The Gamecocks are riding a 
seven-game winning streak into tonight’s game and have not suf-fered a loss since Nov. 23.
Projected starter Michael Fra-
zier II, currently the only Gator to have started all 13 of Florida’s games this season, preached of the importance in not looking too far ahead. 
On Monday, he said his only 
concern and the team’s only con-cern is in tonight’s game against South Carolina—not any of the other challenging SEC matchups ahead.
“You know we just have to 
buy in,” Frazier said. “Everybody buys in and I think we’ll have a chance to be a good team.”Frazier added that he is dis-
appointed that the entire team hasn’t “bought in” on believ-ing that they can be a successful team.
“I mean, yes it’s disappoint-
ing, but you know we are what we are right now and so the only thing we can do is move forward from where we are,” Frazier said. “We’re at this point and the only thing we can do is you know ﬁ  x it.”
Rounding out Florida’s pro-
jected starting lineup is fresh-man forward Devin Robinson, redshirt junior forward Dorian Finney-Smith, transfer center Jon Horford and sophomore guard Kasey Hill.
Florida coach Billy Donovan 
said he considers South Carolina coach Frank Martin a close friend, whom he described as “the big-gest teddy bear out there.” 
Martin was a topic of discus-
sion in the 2013-2014 season when he was heard yelling pro-fanities at Gamecocks then-fresh-man point guard Duane Notice on national television during South Carolina’s 72-46 home loss to the Gators on March 4.
Notice now leads the Game-cocks in scoring with 13.3 points and 28.3 minutes per and has started all of the Gamecocks’ 12 games as a sophomore.
“I know Frank Martin as a 
Megan Reeves / Alligator
Michael Frazier II drives into the paint during Florida’s 65-63 loss to Florida State on Dec. 30 in Tallahassee. Frazier is the only returning starter from last season’s team that reached the Final Four. The Gators are off to a 7-6 start to the season as they open Southeastern Conference play tonight against South Carolina at 7.
UF opens SEC schedule tonight following poor non-conference play
JOHNSON’S JOURNAL
I had thoughts, many of them about how this Florida bas-ketball team would end up — 
it appears I thought wrong. 
I’m on the record saying I 
think Florida’s reachable ceil-ing is an Elite Eight appearance if they can get the parts to mesh. That was preseason, and the gears aren’t meshing. 
Instead they’re grinding and stopping and 
no amount of lube Billy Donovan can apply appears to be able to get Florida’s engine start-ed correctly.
It’s an injury here and an injury there. 
It’s an abysmal three-point performance this night, and turnovers the next. It’s a 13-point lead early in the second half against UConn that ends up being squandered, leading to pressure free throws that are missed over and over again. 
It’s Chris Walker’s immense raw talent that 
can’t be on the court for more than 15 minutes before he exhausts himself, and an Eli Carter that just can’t stay healthy.
Billy Donovan will tell you this team 
doesn’t know how to win, that it goes in the tank when things go wrong in a game. It’s why he called a time-out 30 seconds into the second half against Florida State — he saw the look on Michael Frazier’s face after giving up four easy points in short time. It’s why he’s worried about Alex Murphy’s re-silience after missing free throws against the Huskies.
Frazier called this team the most talented 
one he’s ever been on before the season start-ed, but when he or anyone on the team is asked repeatedly what’s wrong, why the team is 7-6 you get frustration — understandably — and confusion. You get “I don’t know”s and “It’s not just one thing”s. 
There are “I think”s and “It’s not about last 
year”s. The problems are identiﬁ  able with this basketball team, as well as the solutions, but if the problems are on one side and the solutions are on the other, the practical steps of ﬁ  guring out how the heck to bridge the gap seems to be eluding all parties involved.
They had the most non-conference losses 
UF hoops not tournament team
RichardJohnson
twitter: @RagjUFSTAFF REPORT
Gerald Willis is no longer a mem-
ber of the Florida football team.
UF announced Tuesday the true 
freshman will transfer from the pro-gram.
Willis was a four-star recruit out 
of New Orleans Edna Karr High and the No. 6 strongside defensive end in the 2014 recruiting class according to Rivals.com. 
He committed to Florida at during 
the 2014 Under Armour All-America game.
While Willis showed spurts of po-
tential on the ﬁ  eld during his ﬁ  rst year with the Gators, the true freshman de-fensive lineman also had his share of off-the-ﬁ  eld issues in 2014.
The ﬁ  rst was an altercation with quarterback Skyler Mornhinweg over a 
pair of cleats, an in-cident former coach 
Will Muschamp 
called a “tremen-
dous misunder-standing.”
The second, dur-
ing Florida’s 24-19 loss against Florida State, Willis shoved FSU quarterback Jameis Winston as Winston ran out of bounds.
Muschamp said if he were still the 
head coach, Willis would have been off the team immediately.
Willis played in eight games in 
2014, recording 14 tackles, two quar-terback hurries, a forced fumble and a 
fumble recovery.Freshman Gerald Willis 
to transfer from Florida
Willis
UF Men’s Bask etballSEE HOOPS, PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN, PAGE 15 JURY SELECTION IS SET TO BEGIN FRIDAY.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
FALL RIVER, Mass. (AP) — Prosecutors won’t be permit-
ted to cover up a trophy case in Aaron Hernandez’s home 
when jurors visit it during the former New England Patriots star’s murder trial, a judge ruled Tuesday.
Assistant District Attorney William McCauley had 
sought to have the case hidden, saying the defense wanted “to get the benefit of having the jury be impressed by tro-phies or medals.”
Prosecutors also cited the O.J. Simpson murder trial in ar-
guing that they wanted to avoid what they called “strategic manipulation” of the home. 
In the Simpson case, photographs and pictures were 
placed in the home to portray the defendant as a family man, and a Bible was placed on a table to play to jurors’ reli-gious sympathies, prosecutors said in a court filing.
Hernandez’s lawyer, James Sultan, argued that the house 
should be shown to the jurors exactly the way it was at the time of Odin Lloyd’s death.
“The fact the Mr. Hernandez played for the Patriots, 
that’s in the case,” Sultan said. “The trial is about the truth. This is the truth of his house.”
Fall River Superior Court Justice Susan Garsh agreed 
with the defense, saying the trophy case would remain un-covered.
Jury selection is set to begin Friday for Hernandez, who 
has pleaded not guilty to killing Lloyd, a semiprofessional football player. 
Hernandez was a tight end for the Patriots with a $40 
million contract when prosecutors say he killed Lloyd in an industrial park near his North Attleborough home in June 2013. Lloyd, 27, was dating the sister of Hernandez’s fiancee, Shayanna Jenkins.
Hernandez also has pleaded not guilty in the fatal shoot-
ings of two men in 2012 after an encounter at a Boston night-club. That case has not yet gone to trial.
On Tuesday, Garsh also allowed Jenkins and Hernan-
dez’s mother to attend the trial, even though they may be called as witnesses. She also allowed others close to Lloyd to attend, including his mother, his sister and Shaneah Jenkins, Shayanna’s sister and Lloyd’s girlfriend.
Shayanna Jenkins is accused of lying to a grand jury in-
vestigating the case and has pleaded not guilty to perjury.
A hearing is set for Wednesday about two petitions by 
prosecutors to grant immunity to Shayanna Jenkins and one other witness, said Mark Ferriera, an assistant court clerk. Neither he nor Gregg Miliote, a spokesman for the district attorney’s office, would say who the other witness was, cit-ing rules that close courtrooms for such petitions.
Shayanna Jenkins’ lawyer, Janice Bassil, did not return 
an email sent Monday seeking more information about the hearing. Jenkins and Hernandez have a child together.
The judge indicated there may be another hearing Thurs-
day before jury selection begins.
The trial is expected to last six to 10 weeks, and dozens 
of witnesses could be called, including Patriots coach Bill Belichick and team owner Robert Kraft.GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
Being the two-time defending national 
champions brings pressure.
Being preseason No. 1 brings even 
more.
Throw in one 
of the toughest 
schedules in the 
country, and it’s 
safe to say the UF gymnastics team will be 
feeling the heat this season.
“It’s not going to be easy,” junior Bridg-
et Sloan said. “We have a huge target on 
our back right now and we had a huge tar-
get on our back last year, but we made it work.”
The way the Gators made it work was 
by focusing on each moment of the jour-ney individually and growing from each, rather than being daunted by the big pic-ture.
“I think the whole team understands 
you have to go through steps,” Sloan said. “You have to make mistakes in order to learn. 
“Well, unfortunately in gymnastics, we 
do make those mistakes and, again, we learn from them, and that’s what it takes to win a national championship is learning from your mistakes and not letting them happen again.”Coach Rhonda Faehn said the pres-
sure is what often causes the team to make those mistakes, but it is not a bad thing. 
She said she looks forward to the dif-
ficult schedule ahead — the Gators face three top-five opponents on the road — as an opportunity to make those mistakes now so they won’t come back to bite Flori-da when it matters most. 
“Until they actually encounter it, they 
won’t learn from it,” she said, “so we try to put them in the pressure situations on the road as much as possible in the part of the season, so that when it gets into the (Southeastern Conference), regional and national time they know how to handle 
that.”
Kytra Hunter is one of four seniors on 
the team who has seen life before the two 
national championships.
She has tried to share that experi-
ence with the freshmen on the team who haven’t had to deal with any adversity yet. 
She said the most important thing she’s 
learned is that trusting her team is para-
mount when the road gets tough.
“Being comfortable with my skills, my 
coaches, my teammates, and being able to 
speak up is a big thing,” Hunter said. “Be-
ing a veteran, I’ve been able to show the 
freshmen that and showing them it doesn’t always have to be pressure on yourself. We’re a team for a reason.”
As she begins her final year at UF, Hunt-
er said worrying about what’s at stake is the furthest thing from her mind. Instead, she’s looking to savor every moment she has left while embracing each difficult sit-
uation she and her team encounters.
“Of course there’s going to be pressure 
but we can’t look ahead of that,” Hunter 
said. 
“We need to just enjoy ourselves and 
do what we’re fully capable of.”14, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015
AP Photo
Former New England Patriots football player Aaron Hernandez attends a pretrial hearing in the first of two murder cases 
against him at Bristol County Superior Court in Fall River, Massachusetts, on Tuesday. Hernandez is charged with murder in the killing of semi-pro football player Odin Lloyd in 2013. He also is charged with killing two men in Boston in 2012.
Florida ready for pressure of defending title, tough schedule
Judge will let jurors see Aaron Hernandez’s trophy caseUF Gymnastics
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Kytra Hunter performs a floor routine during Florida’s 198.125-197.625 win against LSU on Feb. 21 in the O’Connell Center.
man and who he is at his core,” 
Donovan said on Monday. 
“What he’s done now is he’s 
gone through two years of some 
very difficult times in some very difficult situations, but you’re 
starting to see his team take on 
his identity and how he wants his 
teams to play and that’s a process when you’re looking to change culture.”
Whereas Martin is establish-
ing a culture, Donovan said he’s fighting to maintain a culture left over from a team that was capa-ble of defeating South Carolina 
twice in one season by more than 
15 points each time.
“I’m fighting for our culture,” 
Donovan said. “I’m fighting for that right now, and I think Frank 
is implementing that.”
In scouting the Gamecocks, 
Donovan said he seen improve-
ment from a team that ended the 
2013-2014 season with a 14-20 overall record and a 5-13 SEC re-
cord.
“They’re gonna really defend 
hard they’re gonna pressure 
you they’re really physical and they’re gonna really rebound 
the basketball and they’re gonna 
screen you, the difference be-
tween this year and last year is 
they do it way more consistently for 40 minutes than they did last 
year,” Donovan said. “That’s our 
problem, we don’t do things con-
sistently enough for 40 minutes 
that’s where I gotta, as a coach, 
fight for our culture in terms of 
what that is.”WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Megan Reeves / Alligator
Billy Donovan calls out a play during Florida’s 65-63 loss to Florida State on Dec. 30 in Tallahassee. 
Donovan has been stressing team chemistry and culture with his struggling Gators team this season.
UF coach Billy Donovan still trying to establish team culture
HOOPS , from page 13
Kan Li / Alligator
Eli Carter walks off the court following Florida’s 69-67 loss to Miami on Nov. 17 in the O’Connell Center. The Gators failed to win any games against quality opponents during the non-conference schedule.
The Florida basketball team is off to its 
worst start since the 1974-1975 season
since the 1974-1975 season, and the only 
non-conference test they didn’t fail was against Wake Forest. 
If the season were to end today, Flor-
ida is not an NCAA tournament team, and that should worry you as conference play begins because this conference isn’t Florida, Kentucky and 12 also-rans like I and many of you thought it would be at the beginning of the year. 
Arkansas, led by Bobby Portis, is 
good — remember it took Scottie Wil-bekin’s heroics to beat that team last year. LSU has length at guard and size up front that could give UF fits. Alabama may not be the most consistent team, but most believe Anthony Grant has the best team of his tenure in Tuscaloosa right now.
I don’t write this to say the sky is 
falling around the Gators this season, I write this to say, after such a disappoint-ing start to this year, maybe it’s already fallen. 
COLUMN , from page 13
 ANTONIO MORRISON IS THE SECOND UF JUNIOR TO ANNOUNCE HE’S STAYING.
STAFF REPORT
Antonio Morrison said on UF’s athletic 
website Tuesday that he plans to return for his 
senior season.
“I will be getting my degree in 2015. That 
plays a big role in why I’m returning,’’ Mor-rison said in a release. “And as a leader of this team, I want to lead my team to Atlanta 
and possibly a national championship. Coach 
McElwain has put together a great staff and I’m looking forward to working with them this year.”
Morrison finished the 2014 season with a 
career-high 101 tackles, becoming the first UF player with triple-digit tackles since Ahmad Black in 2010.
The Bellwood, Illinois, native recorded dou-
ble-digit tackles in six games this season, in-cluding a career-high 16 in UF’s 23-20 overtime loss to South Carolina on Nov. 15.
Morrison suffered a left knee injury in the 
second quarter of Florida’s win against East 
Carolina on Saturday. Interim head coach D.J. 
Durkin did not know the severity of the injury following the game, but Morrison walked onto 
the field afterward on crutches.
Morrison is the second UF junior in as many 
days to announce that he will return to Florida, 
joining defensive lineman Jon Bullard.Linebacker 
returning for 
senior yearFOOTBALLGame Info
Location : Colonial Life Arena (Columbia, South Carolina)
Tipoff: 7 p.m.
TV: SEC Network
Series Record : Florida leads 42-22THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI GARDENS (AP) 
— Workers have begun re-
moving seats at the Miami Dolphins’ stadium in the lat-est phase of a $350 million renovation.
The first seats to come out 
Monday were in the upper deck. The lower bowl will be redesigned before the 2015 season, and a canopy over the stands will be erected next year. 
Upgrades of the suites 
and scoreboards are also planned.
Work began last summer, 
but the bulk of the construc-tion was delayed until af-ter the Dolphins completed their season last month. 
All work is to be finished 
before the start of the 2016 season.
The stadium opened in 
1987. Team owner Steve Ross is paying for the renovation, and Miami-Dade County has agreed to pay incentives to the Dolphins for hosting the Super Bowl and other major events.16, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7, 2015
WOMEN’S TENNIS
MIAMI DOLPHINSCAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @CayUnderwood
The Florida women’s tennis 
team is off to bright start in the be-
ginning of its 2014-2015 season.
Florida heads into its dual sea-
son ranked No. 3 in the country 
behind Duke and UCLA and have 
three players ranked in the top 11 for singles — freshman Brooke Aus-tin (No. 6), freshman Josie Kuhlman (No. 9) and junior Brianna Morgan (No. 11).
The Gators earned nine individ-
ual titles in the Fall season, earning some of its titles by beating out its 
own players in the final game.
On one occurrence, sophomore 
Kourtney Keegan and Austin went 
head-to-head at the Duke Invita-tional in September in Cary, North Carolina. Austin came out with the win against Keegan 6-3, 6-1.
One of Florida’s most dominat-
ing player from the fall season is re-
turning right-handed hitter Belinda 
Woolcock.
Woolcock was the only Gator 
who made it to the final round of the Dick Vitale Clay Court Classic in the singles draw. 
Woolcock lost in the finals, while teammates Spencer Liang and Stefani Stojic won the doubles tournament.
Woolcock has not only made a 
name for herself off the court but also has made it to the semi-final 
round of the two ITA tournaments 
she has played in this season.
Three Gators made it to the semi-
finals of the USTA/ITA Regional Championships, Kulman (tourna-ment winner), Morgan (runner-up) and freshman Peggy Porter.
Overall, Florida has a handful of 
key players to contribute to more 
titles this season for the Gators.
After Florida took the doubles 
title on Nov. 9 at the Dick Vitale 
Clay Court Classic in Lakewood Ranch, Florida, the team will con-tinue working towards another win at its next tournament as it begins preparing for the spring season on Sunday in the Plantation 25K in 
Plantation, Florida.
Florida’s opens its regular sea-
son on Jan. 24 against Elon at 2 p.m. 
in the ITA Kickoff.
UF’s Southeastern Conference 
slate begins on Feb. 27 with a match against Alabama at the Ring Tennis Complex.
CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @CayUnderwood
The men’s tennis team is off to 
solid start in its 2014-2015 season.
The Gators open their dual sea-
son on Saturday against William 
& Mary in the ITA Tournament.
UF is ranked No. 13 in the 
country and have three play-
ers ranked in the initial ITA polls
True fresh-
man Chase Per-ez-Blanco led the way in the first tournament 
of the season — the ITA Summer Circuit.
The Miami native won the cir-
cuit back in July against his team-mate, redshirt freshman, Joshua Wardell.
On Sept. 14, the Gator duo teamed up to win doubles conso-lation bracket at the Bedford Cup in Jacksonville. 
The two freshmen have contin-
ued to work hard throughout the season.
While the two freshmen shined 
in the beginning of the season, sophomore Elliott Orkin stepped up the court and took home the Southeastern Conference Fall Classic title after a 6-4, 6-3 victory over teammate Maxx Lipman.
Orkin earned 2014 Southeast-
ern Conference All-Freshman Team honors after finishing his freshman year with a 23-13 record in singles play.
Throughout Orkin’s freshman 
season, his all-time high rank was ninth in ITA doubles with partner Gordon Watson, as well as an all-time rank high of 53rd in singles.
In the summer, Orkin qualified 
for a spot in the 2014 $10k USA F21 Futures Main Draw.
Junior Gor-
don Watson 
from Naples, Florida, has also shined as one of the star tennis singles players at Florida. 
In the ITA Summer Circuit, 
Gordon was crowned the singles champion and also advanced to the final round of men’s doubles at the tournament.
Florida recorded eight 4-0 
sweeps in the 2014 season — UNC-Wilmington, Tennessee, Auburn, Alabama, LSU (twice), St. John’s and USF — en route to a 17-10 record.
Its season ended after falling 
4-3 to No. 3 seed Ohio State in the NCAA Tournament’s Round of 16, and UF finished its year ranked No. 15 in the national polls.Young UF roster ready for season after strong Fall showing
Underclassmen lead deep UF team
UF TennisJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Brianna Morgan serves during Florida’s 4-0 win against Louisville on Jan. 26 at the Ring Tennis Complex. Morgan is the No. 11-ranked singles player in the ITA preseason polls.
Orkin
Sunlife Stadium 
begins renovations