Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 169
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
What’s happening?
Entries now accepted for 
ButterflyFest Facebook Photo 
ChallengeThe Florida Museum is hosting the third annual ButterflyFest 
Facebook Photo Challenge. 
Capture your best picture of wild-life and enter by 11:59 p.m. on Aug. 31 for your chance to win prizes. Anyone, at any age, can enter this free challenge. The winning photographers will be recognized during ButterflyFest on Sept. 19. Email submissions to 
photo-office@flmnh.ufl.edu. For 
entry guidelines, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/butterflyfest/photography/how-enter.
Students receive free admission 
to Florida MuseumStudents with a valid Gator 1 
Card receive free admission to 
the Butterfly Rainforest and other fee-based exhibits year-round at the Florida Museum of Natural History, sponsored  by UF Student Government. The mu-seum is located at 3215 Hull Road just south of the Southwest Rec Center in the UF Cultural Plaza. 
The museum is open from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday and from 1 to 5 p.m. on Sunday.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mmihm@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 /uni2219 NEW STUDENT EDITION
HIGH  91° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Grace Hudgins, Lindsey   
  Saucier, Elena Castello, Kristine Janata
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Serina Esquivel, Bailey Gaul, 
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Nadine Rae Saladino ,  
  Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel Lo
 NEW STUDENT EDITION  /uni2219 MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 /uni2219 NEW STUDENT EDITION
If you could go back and give yourself one piece of advice before your freshman year, what would it be?alligator advice
Tony Katsulos  
@tonykats
@TheAlligator “Delay the party.” Great grades Year 1 makes the next 3 
easier & more fun; starting oﬀ   in the GPA hole, next 3 yrs hurt.
1:51 p.m. /uni2219 28 Jul 2015
Public Ximinez  
@OpenXiminez
@TheAlligator @UF GO. TO. CLASS.
1:53 p.m. /uni2219 28 Jul 2015
Agassy Rodriguez
@Agassy_R
@TheAlligator @UF Make one good friend in every class, so if ever have to miss a class you can ask them for notes or help!
1:41 p.m. /uni2219 28 Jul 2015
Ronit 
@RonitDastidar
@TheAlligator @UF don’t pull the bus cord for the HUB
2:46 p.m. /uni2219 28 Jul 2015
Tobi Phang-Lyn
@taplyn
@TheAlligator @UF Find your people by being open and nice to everyone you meet. You never know who you’ll click with.
1:57 p.m. /uni2219 28 Jul 2015
Jay Martin
@LT_JayMartin
@TheAlligator @UF Failure is just as necessary as success in order to ﬁ  nd what you are passionate about & want to do for rest of your life.
1:16 p.m. /uni2219 29 Jul 2015
3501 SW 34th Street
(352) 377-5733ARCHER
BEAUTY
All types of Hair Pieces:
Clipon, Fusion, 
Extensions, Wigs
 SALES REP
OF THE SEMESTER
SUMMER B 2015
ERIC KOBLICK
major: advertising
CONGRATULATIONS!
NEW STUDENT EDITION  /uni2219 MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org 
More often than not, you’ll hear the phrase, 
“C’s get degrees.”
But if you were admitted into UF, chances 
are Cs are pretty foreign. Chances are you’ve 
never received one. 
Let’s face it: UF makes it almost impossible 
to get an A in some courses; sometimes, your ﬁ  rst few classes for your critical tracking are weed out classes, making your ﬁ  rst semester grades here at UF … colorful with variation.
Luckily, there are options to help you pass.UF has set up the Tutoring Center, a free service that offers “drop-in” or appointment tutoring, study groups, test reviews and video 
resources. 
Located at the southwest ground ﬂ  oor of 
Broward Hall, the Teaching Center offers free 
tutoring for mathematics, engineering and sci-ence courses. You can either sign-up in ad-vance online at https://teachingcenter.uﬂ  .edu/tutoring/appointments/ or check out their on-line “drop-in” schedule to check when you can join a session.
The Teaching Center limits one session per 
week, for a total of two courses per semester. Each session lasts about 50 minutes. They offer test reviews, as well as online video resources. 
If you’re willing to drop some cash, the most popular off-campus options are Tutoring Zone and Study Edge.
Tutoring Zone prices its weekly reviews, 
which include the exam review, between $40 and $80. The exam review alone, which lasts about three hours, is priced between $15 and $35, according to the Tutoring Zone website.
Tutoring Zone also offers full semester pack-ages for introductory classes for $100. The re-views offered are for business, economics and 
statistics, chemistry, mathematics and physics.
Study Edge offers 29 courses, ranging from 
ﬁ  nancial accounting to physics. 
Study Edge is a pay-as-you-go service, 
where you buy tokens that you use to access 
study thick blue study packets and lengthy videos to review for exams, according to their website. For $25 a month, you receive 50 to-kens along with access to exam reviews. For 
$50, you receive 100 tokens, access to exam re-
views, chapter reviews and study hours.
Other than tutoring, going to your TA or 
professor’s ofﬁ  ce hours is the best way to get advice on how to get that A. A’s get paid: How to get that extra push for your grade’s sake
“Your irst few classes for your 
critical tracking are weed out 
classes, making your irst semester 
grades here at UF … colorful with 
variation.”
Collegiate 
Members 
receive 15% off!
Bring a valid student ID to the 
member Service Desk for your 
One Day Membership
SEP 4 - NEW MEXICO STATE
SEP 11 - EAST CAROLINA
SEP 25 - TENNESSEE
OCT 2 - OLE MISS
OCT 30 - GEORGIA (JAX)
NOV 6 - VANDERBILT (HOMECOMING)
NOV 20 - FLA ATLANTIC
NOV 24 - FSU
DEC 4 - SEC CHAMPIONSHIP
CONTACT YOUR
SALES REP TODAY
352-376-4482RUN 5 OF 9 DATES AND RECEIVE 15% OFF  
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
KICKOFF
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Welcome to UF. Let’s take on our freshman year
I am so pleased to welcome all our new stu-
dents to the University of Florida. I consider myself a freshman and a member of your 
class, since I started at UF in January. You 
bring new energy to campus, enlivening the 
university after a productive and restful summer. I offer a special shout out to transfer students and 
new international students.
After my seven months at UF, I have two ob-
servations about being a member of The Gator 
Nation.
First, it is a JOY to be a part of the University of Florida 
family. Like many ﬁ  rst-year students, I live on campus and get to experience all aspects of the university. The beauty of our historical campus and community, combined with broad excellence in academics and athletics, creates an environ-
ment where students enjoy working hard in their studies and 
learn to excel personally and professionally – all while hav-ing a lot of fun.  
Although being at UF truly is a joy, I have a word of 
caution and encouragement, based on my experience as a 
new student at three different universities and schools. Af-
ter graduating from Miami Killian High School, I attended Duke, where in the ﬁ  rst month I joined lots of groups, made numerous friends and went to lots of events.  But then I took 
my ﬁ  rst chemistry exam. I scored 47 out of 100. The pro-
fessor generously curved the exam and awarded me a D. I had similar experiences my ﬁ  rst year as a master’s student in divinity school at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School and my ﬁ  rst year of electrical engineering doctoral studies at the 
University of Illinois.
What I learned each time was that I needed to focus on 
academics, be persistent and not allow myself to get discour-
aged by one low grade or other academic misstep  – all while 
enjoying school.
Second, it is a PRIVILEGE to be a member of the Univer-sity of Florida family.
This is an institution that isn’t complacent 
about its position as one of the world’s greatest universities. We have even greater aspirations. 
During your years as a student, you will see many new faculty, new buildings and new programs. This is a university that loves the word “innova-
tion.” This is a university whose degrees will be 
even more valuable in the future than they are today.
We are blessed to be a part of the University of Florida. 
With that privilege comes responsibility to each other and 
the place that will someday be your alma mater. 
We need to care for each other just as the university cares 
for us. If your experience is like mine, you will face difﬁ  cul-
ties and challenges. If you do, there are academic and per-sonal support organizations across campus to help you. Take advantage of them. If all else fails, please contact me and I 
will have the right person reach out to you.  My personal 
email is kent.fuchs@uﬂ  .edu.
I look forward to seeing you in the library, walking across 
campus, in a coffee shop or at an athletic event. Please stop and say hello. I’m happy to take a selﬁ  e, as long as you send 
me a copy for my Twitter account @presidentfuchs. Wel-
come home!
UF president Kent Fuchs contributes a semi-regular 
column.Take a chance and 
make the most of 
your college 
experience 
If you’re new to college, chances are you’re missing home. Chances are you’re wondering when this place will be-gin to feel like a second home, and when you’ll ﬁ  nally 
ﬁ  nd your way around town. 
Chances are you’re afraid of the what’s to come, the 
unknown of the next chapter of your life that is about to 
unfold.
Don’t fret. This is normal. You’re not alone. If you turned into a puddle of tears when your parents left, 
that’s normal, too. 
Change is hard, especially when you’re thrown out to the 
unfamiliar on your own. 
But the notion that time heals (mostly) everything is in-
credibly accurate in this situation. Every day that passes by, your new home will begin to feel warmer, your route to class will become second nature, and your social group will grow 
larger. 
But if this doesn’t happen right away, if you’re still won-
dering when you’ll make a solid group of friends or when 
you’ll ﬁ  nally learn which bus route gets you home the fast-est, that’s also normal. Hang in there. It gets better.
Keep an open heart. Even if looking for a new group of 
friends feels weird when you’re missing the heck out of the ones back home, remain open. Be kind and be the friend and classmate you would want to have for yourself. If a fel-
low freshman seems sad or lost, offer them comfort. You’ll 
be surprised how many strong friendships can sprout out of difﬁ  cult times. 
Be brave. Try new things. Honestly, what’s the worst 
that could happen? Maybe you’ll fail, but that’s OK. Humans 
aren’t wired to be good at everything. That’s why everyone’s 
passions are unique. Take a big sip of courage, try new things and see what sticks. 
You might ﬁ  nd yourself wanting to give up and move 
back home. These are thoughts that run through the minds of most freshmen. Just hang in there. Finish out the semester and then make a decision. Chances are things will get easier, you’ll get less homesick and lonely, and you’ll want to stick with it. 
You’ll also surprise yourself. You’ll be surprised with how 
much inner strength you have. You’ll be surprised with the things you can accomplish on your own. 
College is supposed to be the time of your life, the time to 
explore and the time to ﬁ  nd yourself.
That’s scary, but don’t let fear get the best of you.Classes are right around the corner, and for you, that 
means it’s time for a new era, a fresh start, a clean slate.
Make the most of it.
Because if you do, chances are you’ll have memories that 
will last a lifetime when it’s over.
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORNEW STUDENT EDITION
MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
“I’m happy to take a selie, as 
long as you send me a copy 
for my Twitter account 
@presidentfuchs.”NEW STUDENT EDITION  /uni2219 MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
Getting around Gainesville 
without a car isn’t as difﬁ  cult as 
you might think thanks to UF’s 
partnership with the Regional 
Transportation System.
With you Gator1 card, you can 
ride any bus for free. 
Ease of access doesn’t mean 
leaving your apartment or dorm without a plan, though.
You need to know what bus to 
take, how late it runs and the in-
tervals between one bus and an-
other. 
You can ﬁ  nd this information 
with the RTS and Google Maps 
apps.
Google Maps
Before you open your RTS 
app, do a Google Maps directions 
search.
1.In Google Maps, use your cur-
rent location and type the destina-tion you’re hoping to get to.
2.Click on the car icon at the 
bottom of the screen. A menu with various transportation graphics will appear.3.Click the bus icon. Then ad-
just your departure time, which can be done right under the desti-
nation search box.  4.Once you pick the best 
route(s) and note the bus number, 
switch to your RTS app.
RTS TransLoc Rider 
app
The RTS app allows you to 
pick a variety of bus routes to see where they stop and how long you’ll have to wait for the next one to arrive. 
It is more accurate than Google 
Maps, which doesn’t always ac-count for UF holidays.
1.Once you open the app, click 
the S-shaped icon at the top.
2.You’ll see a list of bus routes, 
which are all color-coded. Click on the route(s) you chose on Google Maps.
3.A map of the route(s) will ap-
pear, and you can see which bus stop you’re closest to.
4.If you click on the colored dot 
(the bus stop), you’ll see how far away the bus is. You can also track the bus(es) to see which stop it’s closest to.
To determine if a bus is a city 
or campus bus, look at the bus number. 
If the bus has a three-digit num-
ber, such as 125 or 127, the bus 
is a campus bus. For these buses, 
showing your Gator1 ID is unnec-essary. 
For city buses, however, be 
sure to have your ID out and ready 
to show the driver. Nobody likes 
to wait on stragglers.8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 
/uni2219 NEW STUDENT EDITION
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
A group of UF students wait outside the Hub Food Court on campus as three RTS buses arrive at the 
bus stop. UF students can ride the buses for free if they have their Gator1 card.
TRANSPORTATION
No car? No problem. How to ﬁ  nd and ride the RTS buses
NEW STUDENT EDITION  /uni2219 MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
With the summer heat a thing of 
the past, the fall season in Gainesville 
gives students the opportunity to ex-plore its hidden treasures.
Gainesville is teeming with beau-
tiful areas, ranging from a lake to an open ﬁ  eld, all within driving dis-tance from UF campus.
As ﬁ  rst-year students, chances 
are your options of transportation are pretty limited. But no worries. 
There are some places on cam-
pus that are only a bus ride or two away.
Lake Wauburg, located 8 miles 
south of campus on Highway 441, gives students the chance to try boating, rock climbing, sailing and wakeboarding.
During the Fall semester, the 
park is open from noon until 6 p.m. on weekdays, and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on the weekend. 
The Butterﬂ  y Rainforest, located 
in the Florida Museum of Natural History, gives visitors the chance to interact with the butterﬂ  ies who call the sanctuary their home.
There are hundreds of butterﬂ  ies 
with the exhibit, but you’ll only spot about 60 - 80 of them, according to the Florida Museum of Natural His-
tory website.It’s a sight to see, really. While 
the staff ask you to watch where you step, the butterﬂ  ies do as they please 
and sometimes land on people. That would be pretty Instagram-worthy.
Now, if you have a car, or have 
friends with cars, you can check out a lot of other cool nature-y places that you can make Instagram-y.  .
A popular spot is Paynes Prairie 
Preserve State Park, located south-east of UF campus.
Ideal for its nature sightseeing 
and fresh air, Paynes Prairie gives locals the chance to hike, picnic or ﬁ  sh. Parking is $6 per vehicle, or $4 for a single-occupant vehicles.
You can also camp and spend the 
night. November to February, camp-ers get the chance to learn more about Paynes Prairie from rangers, according to their website.
But mostly, it’s a nice hangout 
spot to get away from the constant construction and expansion going on in Gainesville.
The Kanapaha Botanical Gardens 
is another local favorite. 
The garden houses some of the 
largest public displays of bamboo and herb garden. The walkways 
around Kanapaha are wheelchair ac-cessible, with benches and gazebos 
placed around the garden for breaks.
They also have a neat thing called 
a Moonlight Walk, where the walk-ways and meadows are illuminated by more than 1,500 luminaries.
And if you really like it there, 
they rent it out for weddings and other events.
These are just a few of the nat-ural beauties around the city of Gainesville to start out with. 
The more people you meet, the 
more you’ll be able to get to know the city.
A breath of fresh air: The natural beauty of Gainesville
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
The sun begins to set over Paynes Prairie. Located southeast of campus, Paynes Prairie is Ideal for its 
nature sightseeing and fresh air. 
“The more people you meet, 
the more you’ll be able to 
get to know the city.”
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 /uni2219 NEW STUDENT EDITION
NEW STUDENT EDITION  /uni2219 MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
By Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org
Pets are awesome. Dogs, cats, lizards, 
birds, whatever. But having pets and giv-
ing them the proper love and care they need while in college all comes down to ﬁ  nding a balance between school, work 
and your social life. 
Here are some tips:
Make friends with your 
neighbors.
I was lucky enough to have awesome 
neighbors who would walk my dogs 
when I had long days at work or school (by “long” I mean more than 9 hours). In exchange, I would make them fresh 
baked goods or walk their dog whenever 
they needed the help.
Negotiate with your room-
mate. 
Offer to help out your roommate in 
exchange for them caring for your pet on your long school or work days. Offer to do the dishes for the week or cook them a nice dinner as a thank you.
Balance. 
Are you going to be gone all day? 
Well, it’s probably best if you don’t go out all night. Pets need our attention, es-pecially dogs who truly thrive from time with their owners. If you still feel like go-
ing out, be sure to spend a couple hours 
of quality time with your pet. Take them on a nice long walk and then plop down on the couch and watch a movie together before you leave again. Or, just offer to host a get-together at your house. I did that a lot because it allowed me to be social while still being a responsible pet owner. On a budget? Preventative 
care goes a long way. 
Feed your pets quality food (I buy my 
dogs Fromm Family Pet Food from Earth Pets), keep them up-to-date on their shots and routine exams. If your dog gets sick, call your vet for advice and look up 
possible home remedies before spending 
hundreds of dollars. My dog’s ears get ir-ritated a lot, and coconut oil works won-ders. Of course, there are certain things you need to look out for (fever, exces-sive vomiting/diarrhea, loss of appetite for more than 24 hours, lethargy, etc). If you’re worried, call your vet, tell them your pet’s symptoms and go from there. 
On a side note, always keep Benadryl in 
the house. This is a lifesaver (literally) if your pet gets stung or bit by something. Look out for pale gums, lethargy and ex-cessive panting as signs of a serious al-lergic reaction and get them to the vet immediately.
Big dog and small apart-
ment? Yes, you can make this 
work, though it’s not ideal. 
Take them on a run (or if you’re lucky 
to have a backyard, play fetch) in the 
morning to get their energy out. Take them on another long walk in the eve-ning along with regular bathroom breaks. 
Also, give them plenty of quality chew 
toys to get out any excess energy while they’re indoors.
More than anything, don’t 
be selﬁ  sh. 
Make it a point to be there for your pet. 
They love you endlessly and deserve your care. If you’re not mature enough to skip a night out so you can properly care for a living, breathing being, then you probably 
aren’t mature enough to have a pet.Having a pet at college is manageable with these tips
Melissa Mihm / Alligator Staff
7-year-old pug mixes Mufﬁ  n and Chunk look out of the car window while driving around 
Gainesville in early August. 
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 ∙ NEW STUDENT EDITION
SLEEPBy Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
ltorres@alligator.org
If you’re looking for places of 
worship while you’re at the Univer-
sity of Florida, the city of Gainesville has plenty of places for people of all kinds of religions near campus.
If you’re a catholic, look no fur-
ther than St. Augustine’s on West University Avenue right across campus and next to the Dunkin Do-nuts in midtown. St. Augustine is also home to the Catholic Gators, a Catholic student center that is non-territorial and a multi-cultural parish community of students, faculty, staff and families from UF, Santa Fe and 
Gainesville.
A little bit down the road from 
St. Augustine is the Gator Wesley Foundation. It’s the United Method-
ist Campus Ministry that serves the University of Florida and Santa Fe. The Wesley Foundation offers week-ly worship opportunities on Sundays 
and Wednesdays as well as Bible 
studies on Wednesdays as well.
Also on campus is UF Hillel, 
which is located at Norman H. Lipoff Hall on University. UF Hillel is one of the oldest Hillel organizations as it was founded in 1947 and serves approximately 8,000 Jewish students at Florida. The organization sends students to Israel each year for their Birthright trips. The trips are free and last year, 200 students went on their Birthright through UF Hillel.
The Krishna House is home to the 
Bhakti Academy which is an educa-tional program designed to provide full immersion to students to practice Bhakti yoga in the temple ashram for 
a either one or two semesters. The students study ancient Vedic scrip-
tures and they also serve Krishna Lunch Monday through Friday at the Plaza of Americas on campus.The Krishna Lunch is served daily 
from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and 
the volunteer staff serves vegetarian food that varies each day during the week. The city of Gainesville has a wealth of places where you can wor-ship and they are not limited to the ones listed here. If you go out and explore, you will certainly find your place of worship while you’re at UF.
Some of the top places to worship in Gainesville
By Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org 
School is exhausting. Sometimes you 
just need a nap, but sometimes you don’t 
have enough time to go home and crash in 
between classes. 
Here are some (but not all) of the best 
places to nap on campus:Plaza of the Americas
This one is obvious. The plaza is a chill 
place. Eat some Krishna lunch and lounge 
on the lawn. Put up a hammock, or do what 
I do and have a rolled up sheet in your bag. 
Roll it out, plop down and rest your head on your bag. 
North Lawn
Yet another obvious choice. Follow the same instructions for the Plaza of the Amer-icas but minus the Krishna lunch.
Pugh Hall
There are signs on the second floor tell-
ing you not to sleep. That’s how ideal this place is to nap. Of course, don’t be a jerk 
and nap there during exam weeks. 
Third floor of Weimer Hall
At certain times of the day, this place can 
be pretty busy. However, there are certain gaps where you can find some peace and 
quiet. The couches are curved, so be pre-
pared to sleep in a slightly funny position.
Library West
I feel like Library West is a no judgement 
zone as long as you’re not an obnoxious 
snorer. Find a corner, plop down and rest 
your head on your bag. This place gets pret-
ty cold, so I suggest bringing a big comfy sweater.Nap break: Best places to take a snooze on campus BOGO ANYONE?
By Kristine Janata
Alligator Staff Writer
kjanata@alligator.org
As college students on a budget, 
we are always looking for deals and 
ways to save money. Fortunately, Midtown is located right across the street from campus, and it is home 
to some deals that you can take ad-
vantage of without having to travel too far.
When you get tired of eating 
lunch every day at the dining hall and the food court at the Reitz Union, venture across the street to Tijuana Flats, 1720 W. University Ave., for “Tijuana Tuesdaze.” Every Tuesday, this deal will get you two tacos, chips and a drink for $5.49.
After class, you can stop by for 
Happy Hour at Dunkin’ Donuts in Midtown, where you can get any 
size coffee, iced or hot, for 99 cents 
from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. every day. It will give you the energy and keep you awake when you’re doing homework later or studying for a test.
Everyone loves BOGO. On 
Wednesdays, bring your college I.D. to College Night at Chick-fil-A, 3621 
SW Archer Road, from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. and buy any sandwich, meal 
or entrée and receive a free Original Chick-fil-A sandwich. Two meals for the price of one just can’t be beat.
If you’re craving frozen yogurt for 
dessert, wear your pajamas to Mochi and receive 50 percent off your pur-chase, with a minimum purchase of 
$3 on Mondays and Wednesdays, 8 
p.m. to close, at the Midtown loca-tion and Tuesdays and Thursdays, 7 p.m. to close, at the Downtown loca-tion. Not only do you get half-priced frozen yogurt, you don’t even have to change out of your pajamas.
There’s a deal out there for what-
ever you want or need, whether it is 
food, coffee or dessert.Where to find food deals in town
Danielle Veenstra/Alligator Staff
Ryan Vanschaick, a 22-year-old UF psychology senior, waits outside under the Dunkin’ Donuts tented 
patio for his breakfast Aug. 6.
By Elena Castello
Alligator Staff Writer
ecastello@alligator.org 
Truth be told, I had never 
been to a thrift store before col-
lege. But when I started college 
– and became poor – I had to 
find cheaper options if I wanted to buy clothes. 
Luckily, Gainesville under-
stands the struggle, and there are some pretty awesome thrift stores around town. Though I haven’t been to all of them, I’d like to share with you a bit 
about the ones I’ve been to:
Goodwill
Located at 3520 SW 34th St., 
this one might be one of the 
cheapest around town. Every-
thing is color-coded and orga-
nized by size. 
It’s pretty big and there are 
tons of clothes – especially 
scrubs if you need them – and 
even house décor things. It’s clean, and the people are pretty friendly. 
You can get shirts for a cou-
ple of dollars, dresses and pants for less than $5, and shoes for less than $10. If you’re looking for something eccentric or un-
usual, maybe this is the place 
for you.
Sandy’s Savvy Chic 
Resale Boutique
Because it’s a consignment 
store, Sandy’s is a little pricier, but it’s also better quality you’re paying for. 
It’s clean and very organized, 
and they have so, so many purs-es. 
I haven’t tried to sell any-
thing nor put anything on con-
signment, but from what I hear, 
they can be a little picky with what they take. 
Either way, it’d be a nice 
place to check out if you’re looking for something nicer. Go check it out at 4148 NW 13th St.
Plato’s Closet
Fairly close to campus, at 
3441B W University Ave., Pla-to’s Closet is part of a chain of 
thrift stores that prides itself on 
buying gently-used name brand clothes. 
They do resale as well as 
consignment, but also can be picky with which items they buy. There are lots of clothes to choose from, and they’re aimed 
at a younger crowd.
These are just a few of 
the many stores we have in 
Gainesville if you’re on a budget 
but need new clothes. 
Next time you’re looking for 
something unique or original, 
be sure to check these thrift 
stores out. How to pop tags with 
$20 in your pocket 
“…When I started college 
– and became poor – I had 
to find cheaper options if I 
wanted to buy clothes.”
Something for everyone
“The city of Gainesville has 
a wealth of places where 
you can worship.”THRIFT SHOPPINGNEW STUDENT EDITION  /uni2219 MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
FITNESS
Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org            
Whether you’re walking to or from class at 
UF, you’ll notice something. There is almost al-
ways someone working out.
While you make your way to a classroom, 
someone will be running, biking, or even head-
ing to the gym.
Through Turlington, around the stadium, 
along the sidewalks, students are burning calo-
ries in order to stay somewhat sane after sitting in a classroom for a few hours.At UF, the opportunity to exercise is plenti-
ful. You just have to ﬁ  nd your niche. There are 
ways to work out, even if you typically don’t.
If you’re the type that prefers to hit the gym, 
there are two campus gyms where you can join 
small group training classes or work out. Both facilities have live camera feeds that allow you to check how busy a room is before you head out.
At the Student Recreation & Fitness Center, 
you can either sign up for a small group train-
ing session 24 hours before the class or get a 
full body workout in one of the two activity rooms, or the strength and conditioning room.Small group workout sessions include Vin-
yasa yoga, Zumba, hip-hop ﬁ  tness and kick 
box ﬁ  tness, among others.
Southwest Recreation Center is located fur-
ther south on campus, but it’s bigger in size, 
with more room space for other recreational ac-tivities. At Southwest, students have the option to run on an indoor track, play indoor soccer, handball or basketball, or play outdoor tennis.
Broward Outdoor Recreational Complex, lo-
cated behind Broward dining, has a roller hock-ey rink, sand volleyball as well as tennis courts and a skate park. Equipment is also available 
to check out.
Norman soccer ﬁ  eld provides a larger ﬁ  eld 
for outdoor soccer or ultimate Frisbee. A UF 
Facebook page is open for people to join and set times to play pick-up soccer, where anyone can go out and join.
A common favorite is Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-
dium, where running a few sets of bleachers makes for a good workout.
Other students opt for campus jogs, which is 
why you’ll catch a few people running around Turlington Square or Museum road.Break a sweat: Fitness options are aplenty at, around UF
“There are ways to work out, even if 
you typically don’t.”
14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 /uni2219 NEW STUDENT EDITION
By Kristine Janata
Alligator Staff Writer
kjanata@alligator.org
Coffee is a staple of college life.
Whether you drink it in the 
morning to stay awake throughout 
the day or at night to study for a 
test the next day, it provides you with the focus to make it through the long day.
Luckily, for the sleep-deprived 
college student, Gainesville is home to several coffee shops. 
There is something for ev-
eryone, whether you want to sit 
and enjoy a cup of coffee down-
town with some friends, or if you are looking to grab some quickly on the way to class at one of the 
ﬁ  ve Starbucks locations scat-
tered around UF’s campus, three of which being located in Library West, the Hub and the Reitz Union.
If you desire a sit-down place 
to enjoy a cup of coffee and you don’t want to wait in long lines to obtain a cup of coffee, then coffee 
shops such as CYM Coffee, 5402 
NW Eighth Ave., and Volta, 48 SW Second St., offer a quiet place to study or socialize and get away from the hustle and bustle of cam-
pus. 
Most of the time, however, es-pecially when you’re in between 
classes, it is convenient to stop by 
Starbucks or Dunkin’ Donuts, lo-
cated in two locations on Univer-sity Avenue across the street from campus.
Each coffee shop in Gainesville 
brings its own unique taste and atmosphere, providing the town with a variety of options for every type of coffee drinker. Explore the unique and local coffee shops as 
well as what you are familiar with 
to discover all that Gainesville cof-fee scene has to offer.
Gainesville is home to coﬀ  ee shops galore, ﬁ  nd yours
Amber Flaskey / Alligator
Coffee is an essential part of most college students’ diets. Whether you make it at home or buy it from 
a coffee shop, take it black or with cream and sugar, the caffeinated beverage keeps them going.
TOP 10 COFFEE 
SHOPS IN GAINESVILLE
1. CYM Coffee
 5402 NW Eighth Ave.
2. Volta Coffee, T ea 
 and Chocolate 48 SW Second St.
3. Lollicup
 3550 SW 34th St.
4. Bay Island 
 Coffee Company 3270 SW 35th Blvd.
5. Coffee Culture
 2020 NW 13th St.
6. Know Where Coffee
 1226 W. University Ave.
7. Pascal’s at the 
 Christian Study 112 NW 16th St.
8. Opus Coffee
 1600 SW Archer Road
9. Sweetwater Organic 
 Coffee Company 1331 S. Main St.
10. Starbucks
 1520 NW 13th 
St.
Source: YelpCAFFEINE
gluten-free • vegan • paleo • organicwww.wfdinnerpersonalchef.com352 • 792 • 6755 WE FEED 
HUNGRY 
GATORS!
 weekly meal service
Homestyle meals 
Prepared to your 
Specifications! 
• Student DiscountsWe offer a wide variety 
including special diets like: 
Gluten Free, Vegan, 
Paleo, and Organic
• We Deliver
NEW STUDENT EDITION  ∙ MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 ∙ NEW STUDENT EDITION
UF and Gainesville Rankings
ACADEMIC NOT-SO-ACADEMIC
Forbes
Rated the University of Florida as 14th best public school
Money Magazine
Rated the University of Florida as the best value in Florida
U.S. News Report
Rated the University of Florida as No. 5 for graduation rates
ECA
Rated the University of Florida as No. 3 for Fullbright Scholars
SR Education
Rated the University of Florida Online as No. 19 for online colleges
U.S. News Report
Rated the UF Levin College of Law as the best Law School in Florida
National Academy of Inventors
Rated the University of Florida as No. 2 in Florida for number of patentsFind the Home
Rated Gainesville as the No. 1 Bro City
Princeton Review
Rated the University of Florida as the No. 14 Party School
CollegeAtlas
	 Rated	the	University	of	Florida	as	No.	9	for	Social	Media 	Influence 
Livability
Rated Gainesville as the No. 7 College Town
Gazelle
Rated Gainesville as the No. 1 Klutziest city
Ranker
Rated Gainesville as the No. 3 Electronic Dance Music scene
Amazon
Rated Gainesville as the No. 19 most romantic city
䴀愀欀攀 礀漀甀爀 洀漀渀攀礀 氀椀昀攀 攀愀猀椀攀爀 琀栀爀漀甀最栀 䘀䌀唀℀ 圀 攀ᤠ瘀攀 最漀琀 
挀漀渀瘀攀渀椀攀渀琀 瀀爀漀搀甀挀琀猀 氀椀欀 攀 吀漀琀愀氀氀礀 䘀爀攀攀 䌀栀攀挀欀椀渀最 
⠀渀漀 昀攀攀猀℀⤀ ☀ 攀䌀爀攀搀椀琀 琀栀愀琀 愀爀攀 攀愀猀礀 琀漀 愀挀挀攀猀猀 愀渀搀 
洀愀渀愀最攀 漀渀氀椀渀攀 ⸀ 倀氀甀猀Ⰰ 礀漀甀 挀愀渀 琀愀欀 攀 礀漀甀爀 愀挀挀漀甀渀琀 眀椀琀栀 
礀漀甀 愀昀琀攀爀 挀漀氀氀攀最攀 愀渀搀 欀 攀攀瀀 礀漀甀爀 ǻ渀愀渀挀攀猀 爀甀渀渀椀渀最 
猀洀漀漀琀栀氀礀 Ⰰ 渀漀 洀愀琀琀攀爀 眀栀攀爀攀 礀漀甀 最漀 ⸀
嘀椀猀椀琀 甀猀 
嘀椀猀椀琀 甀猀 漀渀氀椀渀攀 漀爀 椀渀 礀漀甀爀 氀漀挀愀氀 戀爀愀渀挀栀 琀漀 ǻ渀搀 漀甀琀 栀漀眀 
䘀氀漀爀椀搀愀 䌀爀攀搀椀琀 唀渀椀漀渀 挀愀渀 栀攀氀瀀 礀漀甀℀ 
䬀攀攀瀀椀渀最 甀瀀 眀椀琀栀 礀漀甀
愀渀搀 礀漀甀爀 ǻ渀愀渀挀攀猀⸀ 
㌀ 䜀愀椀渀攀猀瘀椀氀氀攀 䈀爀愀渀挀栀攀猀     
䘀攀搀攀爀愀氀氀礀 椀渀猀甀爀攀搀 戀礀 琀栀攀 一䌀唀 䄀⸀ 
The perfect guide to pulling the inevitable all-
nighter
Prepare yourself, snack wisely, pg 19Keep up with the Avenue 
on Twitter. Tweet us @TheAlligator. Planning on studying abroad?
Find a list of what you’ll need on pg 24.NEW STUDENT EDITION
MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Alligator File Photo
Swamp Head sells growlers to take home. They come in 32, 64 and 128-ounce bottles. 
By Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org 
All right, I’m not going to sit 
here and act like I’m some sort of 
craft beer connoisseur. 
I can’t tell you things like, 
“This beer has some ﬁ  ne ﬂ  oral notes with a hint of cocoa and just enough ‘hoppiness.’” 
Nope. I just like to drink good 
beer, so here are some of my rec-ommendations on where to ﬁ  nd some good brews:
Swamp Head, 3650 SW 
42nd Ave.
This brewery will always have 
a special place in my heart. 
It recently moved locations and 
their new taproom is sunny and 
spacious. 
For ﬁ  rst timers, I suggest get-
ting the ﬂ  ight and then basing 
your second drink off of which one you like the best. 
Personally, I love the Midnight 
Oil. I almost always leave with a growler of that deliciousness. 
What I love so much about 
Swamp Head is that their beers are made with so much love. That sounds cheesy, but these folks re-
ally care about their beer and their 
passion is evident with every sip.
First Magnitude Brew-
ing Company, 1220 SE 
Veitch St.
I only recently went to this 
place, and I’m kicking myself for 
not going sooner. 
Just like Swamp Head, get the 
ﬂ  ight and go from there. I love the Siren brew and they almost al-ways have seasonal options. They 
have a big open area by the ac-
tual brewery where you can play games, plus an indoor area and a big backyard with picnic tables and strings of white lights. 
Plus, there is almost always a 
food truck on location, which is a major plus. 
Just like Swamp Head, this 
stuff is made with care.
Brass Tap, 3833 SW Ar-
cher Rd.
This isn’t a bar or brewery, but 
they have a killer selection of craft brews. 
You can even build your own six pack! 
My favorite part? They have a 
few beers on tap so you can drink while you shop. 
Score. 
Ward’s Supermarket, 
515 NW 23rd Ave.
Walk toward the freezer aisle 
and you’ll be hit with a giant wall of craft beer to choose from. Plus 
it’s a grocery store, so you can buy 
killer craft beer AND ice cream all in one trip! The folks at Ward’s are super nice, too.  
Lucky’s Market, 1459 
NW 23rd Ave.
An awesome grocery store 
where you can drink craft beer from the tap while you shop.
 It even has cup holders built 
into the shopping cart.
Ummm... Yes, please.Gainesville is ﬁ  lled with awe-
some places to get craft beer. 
I didn’t even list half of them. 
Just remember this: craft beer is really, well, a craft. 
So respect the beer, respect 
its craftsmanship and respect the brewers. 
And most importantly, be safe.  
Always have a designated driver if 
you plan on getting a little sloshy. Best spots to grab some craft beer
By Laura Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
lgomez@alligator.org 
So you just finished deco-
rating and settling into your 
new dorm and there’s only one 
thing left for you to do: back-to-
school shopping.
While Gainesville is mostly 
known for its bars and food, you 
probably haven’t heard much 
about the one place you’ve been searching for since your arrival: your go-to boutique.
But don’t freak out yet, fash-
ionista. 
Just because you moved to 
Gainesville does not legally bind you to spending the next 
four years in army pants and 
flip-flops. (If you recognize the reference, this article is for you.)
In an array of Guy Harvey, 
camouflage everything, and an overbearing amount of orange and blue, there are, in fact, a few well-within-reach places 
around Gainesville that’ll save 
you that 68-mile drive to the nearest Urban Outfitters.
I’ve compiled a list of my 
top three favorite boutiques in 
which you’ll surely walk away 
with a smile and quite a few statement pieces.
Here’s what I found:
Henri Girl Boutique, 
1800 W. University Ave.
Being right across the street 
from campus, the boutique is geared toward the fashion-for-
ward college girl. 
From trendier items to clas-
sic pieces, the store carries 
something for every occasion. 
Whether you’re looking for a 
cute game day piece or a night-out-in-midtown outfit, the store offers an array of matching sets, high-waist bottoms, kimonos, 
sandals, heels and jewelry – all 
the latest styles, all at reason-able prices.
Instagram:  
@henrigirlWolfgang, 1127 W. 
University Ave.
With most of the boutique’s 
brands coming from Los Ange-les, the store’s pieces reflect a 
free-spirited, adventurous soul. 
The eclectic boutique has 
clothes that range from casual 
basics to funky statement piec-es. 
With the store’s selection 
flaunting a variety of different prints and colors, you can be sure to find something for all styles. 
If that doesn’t already sound 
great, I have one more word for you:  MINKPINK. You’re wel-come.
Instagram:  
@wolfgang_gainesville
Urban Thread, 1202 
NW 23 Ave.
For an edgy urban vibe, visit 
Urban Thread. 
The store has a wide selec-
tion of clothing from collar dresses to jumpers as well as home goods from stationery to 
throw pillows. 
Heads up: You might want 
to pick up a pair of their rain 
boots because, if you haven’t 
already heard, it tends to rain 
in Gainesville, like, pretty much all the time.
Instagram:  
@urbanthreadgainesvilleStay trendy: Find 
your favorite 
Gainesville boutique
SHOPPING
GNV: craft beer haven
“In an array of Guy 
Harvey, camoulage 
everything, and an 
overbearing amount of 
orange and blue, there 
are, in fact, a few well-
within-reach places 
around Gainesville that’ll 
save you that 68-mile 
drive to the nearest 
Urban Outitters.”18   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 /uni2219 NEW STUDENT EDITION
By Katherine Dagand
Alligator Contributing Writer
College years are ﬁ  lled with the temptation 
to eat out or the temptation to eat unhealthy. 
So in order to be healthy and save money you need to familiarize yourself with two things: the kitchen and the supermarket. You need to learn 
what to buy, how to buy it and more impor-
tantly, how to make it edible. After research, personal experience and several calls to my mother, here’s how to make the most of your grocery visits and eat healthy on a budget.
Before your grocery visit:
Make a shopping list. In doing so, you save 
yourself the headache of walking in and having no idea what you need. You also prevent falling victim to sales on unnecessary products you get tricked into buying. And the golden rule: Don’t 
go to the supermarket hungry.During your grocery visit: 
Organize your visits by carbs, proteins, 
dairy, fruits and vegetables, snacks and miscel-
laneous. It can also help you to divide what you need by breakfast, lunch, dinner and snacks.
Carbs:  whole grain rice, whole wheat 
bread, oatmeal, whole grain pasta, whole wheat tortillas, whole grain cereals
Proteins:  lean ground turkey, chicken, tur-
key ham, turkey bacon, canned tuna, lean beef (I recommend shoulder), eggs
Dairy: Almond or soy milk, 2% milk, 
Greek yogurt, cheeses of your preference
Fruits:  Bananas and berries are necessi-
ties to me. Aside from that, check out what’s in season and what’s on sale. Fruit in season is cheaper and they vary, so you won’t get so bored. For a healthy snack, you can try buy-
ing frozen fruit to make smoothies with almond 
milk or Greek yogurt.Vegetables:  It’s a good idea to have pep-
pers, onions, garlic, celery, carrots, potatoes and spinach/kale salad blends in your fridge. Once you learn how to cook with vegetables it makes your food taste that much better—guar-
anteed!
Snacks:  almonds, dried or normal fruits, 
hummus, tea
Misc.:  COFFEE, olive oil, butter, vinegar, 
salad dressings (stick to vinaigrettes!), salad 
toppings, condiments, seasoning
Keep in mind that you’re not going to be 
buying everything every time you visit the gro-
cery store. Buy your proteins in bulk every three 
weeks and keep them packed separately so you can defrost one serving at a time. Snacks, rice, pasta, coffee, and olive oil can also be bought every three weeks. Carbs like breads and torti-llas should be bought every two weeks. Fruits and vegetables should be bought once a week. Bottom line: Only buy when you run out. 
After your grocery visit:
Store everything how it needs to be stored 
(room temperature, refrigerator, etc.). I save a lot of time by storing my meats seasoned and separately by packets in the freezer.
The most important part of eating healthy 
is learning how to make your own food. (That way you know what’s in your food and you’re actually using the food you’re buying.)
Look up simple recipes online that you can 
make using the ingredients you have at home. It also helps to make enough to last you a few days to save you from cooking every day.
Lastly, it’s important to balance yourself and 
eat in moderation. It’s ok to eat a cookie or two 
every once in a while as long as you’re eating 
healthy to balance everything out. The point isn’t to starve yourself to lose weight but to eat to keep your body healthy and in shape. Eating healthy doesn’t have to break your wallet
HEALTH
PRESIDENT
FUCHS
I N TH I S I SSUE  — P AGE 6
Read his column on the 
people, places, and issues of 
the University of Florida.
@PresidentFuchs
L
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Home of 
GainesvilleÊs
 Favorite Seafood!
 >Seafood  BROILED > BLACKENED > FRIED
       >Wings & Te nders          > Burgers             > Fish Ta cos                > PoÊ Boy Sandwiches                           > Soups & Salads
3333 SW 34TH STREET  (34th & Ar cher Rd)
poboyseafood.com > (352) 271-6655
ALL YO U CAN EA T
 JUMBO SHRIMP
$14.99$2 OFF
 SHRIMP
 OR MAHI TACOSBUY 1 GET 1 FREE 
Po’ Bo y Sandwic h 
(WITH PURC HASE OF TW O DRINKS)
Not V alid w/ any other of fer
Expir es 10/1/15Not V alid w/ any other of fer
Expir es 10/1/15Not V alid w/ any other of fer
Expir es 10/1/15Delivery 
AvailableFamily Owned & 
Oper ated By UF Gr ads
NEW STUDENT EDITION  /uni2219 MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
By Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org
We all know the almost crippling feeling 
students get when exam week rolls around. 
Heck, when any major test or project rolls 
around. 
You’re not alone. 
We’ve all felt that anxiety that keeps us 
up at night, that feeling of pure exhaustion 
when we look over our list of things to do, 
that near vomit inducing feeling of having to be 10 people all at once.
But it’ll be OK. No matter what, you have 
to get through these next few years. You 
have no choice. 
Once you realize this and give away some 
of the control you hold so dearly, you’ll re-
alize you’ll get through it some way, some-
how. 
Time ﬂ  ies and it’s impossible to stop it 
or slow it down (although we all wish we 
could). College is messy. It isn’t glamorous, and it’ll make you question who you are at every turn. We all know that creeping feeling of uncertainty.
All sappiness aside, you’re eventually 
going to have to succumb to the madness of exam week. And sometimes, although it is never ideal, you will have to pull an all 
nighter.
All nighters suck. There is no doubt about 
that. But pushing through it and coming out 
successful is an incredible feeling.
Here are my tips for pulling an all nighter:
PLAN! 
Seriously, make a list of everything you 
want to accomplish that night and be sure to prioritize. Check things off as you go (it feels 
so damn good).
Load up on healthy snacks 
I know you want a cheesy gordita crunch 
and an entire pack of Oreos to keep you 
warm at your cold and lonely study desk. 
But all that will do is result in you shitting 
your brains out in the library bathroom, which sure ain’t classy. Apples, bananas, nuts, yogurt and veggies with hummus are 
sure to get you through the worst night of your life.
Coffee naps
Oh, sweet, sweet, beautiful coffee naps. 
I would marry you if I could. Here’s what 
you do: drink a cup of coffee or take a shot 
of espresso and then put your head down 
on the desk for 10 minutes. The coffee will wake you up and you’ll feed like a celebri-ty (although I really recommend setting an 
alarm just in case).
Warm clothes
I don’t care who you are, the libraries at 
this school are freezing. In a way, this is a 
good thing because it’ll keep you alert, but 
when you’re already overcome with the frig-
idness that is studying all by your lonesome, a thermoset teeming on 65 degrees will make you wonder if UF is in the process of turning 
the library into a massive walk-in freezer. So 
wear sweats, a big sweater and fuzzy socks. You could also bring a blanket if that’s your prerogative.
Study buddies 
Study buddies can be distracting, but if 
you ﬁ  nd someone who is in the same aca-demic boat as you, they can be a lifesaver. 
They’ll keep you sane. They’ll watch your 
stuff when you go to the bathroom, plus you can take turns getting coffee/snacks/what-ever.
Monitor your caffeine intake
Too much caffeine can give you the jitters 
or an ungodly amount of bathroom breaks, so pace yourself. You’re just as worthless if 
you’re too jittery to concentrate as you would 
be if you’re too exhausted. My general rule of thumb is a small cup of good coffee every three to four hours. Other than that, I’m usu-
ally sipping on cold water with lemon.
The will to stay sane 
I can’t say this enough. Your mind is a 
powerful tool. Utilize its strength. Constantly 
remind yourself that this all nighter is tem-
porary. Remind yourself that this class is 
temporary. Remind yourself that college is temporary because before you know it, it’ll all be said and done with and you’ll wonder 
where all the years and good times went.
Best of luck. The perfect guide to pulling the inevitable all-nighter
Prepare yourself, snack wisely
“College is messy. It isn’t 
glamorous, and it’ll make you 
question who you are at every 
turn.”
100’s of
New Choices
 coming august 24th
Where:
JWRU Circle Drive 
Breezeway
When:
Mon. Aug. 24 thru Fri. Aug. 28
Time: 
9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor:
Programs, Arts, and Leisure20   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 /uni2219 NEW STUDENT EDITION
By Christine Preston
Alligator Staff Writer
cpreston@alligator.org 
High school relationships are great. 
They’re also really hard to carry over into col-
lege because usually, you and your signiﬁ  cant other will be parting ways for school. I’m not going to be one of those naysayers and tell 
you it’s not going to work. But there are some 
things you need to consider before you and your signiﬁ  cant other decide you’re going to spend a signiﬁ  cant time apart. About a third of all long distance relationships are college relationships, according to Long Distance 
Relationship Statistics. And in the end, “75 
percent of all engaged couples have been (at some point) in a long distance relationship.” 
How far apart will you be?
Obviously, being able to visit is an impor-
tant part of being in a long-distance relation-ship. The farther apart you are, the harder it will be to visit and the more likely you are to push it off when you start getting busy.
Are you OK with change?
People change and grow. They get new hobbies, new friends, new clothes. You might not be there for it all. The important thing to remember is that change isn’t always bad, and growing doesn’t always mean growing apart.
What about communication?
Just like in any relationship, communica-
tion is key. But in a long-distance relationship, it’s doubly important. You need to be able to tell your partner if something is bothering you or if you’re really excited about something. 
They’re there to share life with you. Be clear 
about what you want. 
Do your trust your partner?This is very important. You can’t snoop 
through your signiﬁ  cant other’s phone when you’re 100 miles away. You can’t drive by their house to see if they’re home. You have to believe them when they tell you something. 
Jealousy and distrust can easily destroy a rela-
tionship, especially one that relies heavily on believing what the other person says. 
In the end, just like any relationship, it 
takes hard work, dedication and a lot of love. Just don’t let anyone tell you that you’re cra-zy; you know your relationship better than anyone else. Long-distance relationships and how to make them work
DATINGNEW STUDENT EDITION  /uni2219 MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   21
YOU CAN STILL HAVE FUN EVEN 
IF YOU’RE NOT 21.
By Danielle Veenstra
Alligator Staff Writer
dveenstra@alligator.org
Now that you’re out of your parent’s house, 
you have a reason to belt the chorus from George Michael’s song “Freedom!” However, if you are underage this experience will be without college’s most proliﬁ  c pastime: drink-ing. Underage in Gainesville does not have to equal an early bedtime; in fact, there are many bars and clubs in Midtown that are under-21 friendly.
Some of these ﬁ  ne establishments include 
Gator City, The Swamp Restaurant, 101 Can-tina, Grog, Kava Hookah and Sheesha.
Stay away from Fat Daddy’s, Balls, Salty 
Dog Saloon and the Rowdy Reptile because 
they won’t touch you with a 10-foot pole un-
less you’re 21 and older.
Before we go any further, you should know 
that Gainesville’s tolerance for underage drink-ing and open containers are next to none. Gainesville City Ordinance 4-4b states it is il-legal to “carry or consume any open container of alcohol […] on any public right of way, such as a sidewalk, street or parking lot.” The lesson 
we learned today: stay sober and out of jail.Midtown is known for its sweaty packed 
dance ﬂ  oors and drunken frat brothers, but if 
you can overlook those charming traits, you’ll be dancing the night away.
The climb up to Grog House can be wor-
risome for newbies since you have to take a steep and rickety set of stairs, but it’s worth a near-falling experience. The music is diverse, from rap to reggaeton. The crowds are usually energetic and everyone has a really good time.
Grog gets hot, fast. Since it is a popular hang out, it can get packed and sweat will pour. Staying hydrated and making multiple trips to the bathroom to ﬁ  x the sweat line that forms on your forehead, will keep you in a party mood. After the bars close, you can head to Kava Hookah for great music and a continu-
ous party. The best day of the week to hit Kava 
is Thursday when salsa and bachata pumps through the dance ﬂ  oor for Latin night. If you plan to hook onto a hookah for the night, the top rated ﬂ  avors are skittles and blue mist. You’ll realize after a few nights in Midtown that being underage can be fun. While you tick off the days until you can join the saps that pay for overpriced cocktails, stick to these tips and 
tricks to navigate your new party town.
Young, Wild and Sober: A guide to underage fun
“The lesson we learned today: stay 
sober and out of jail.”Danielle Veenstra
Alligator Staff Writer
dveenstra@alligator.org
Blame it on really good pizza.
Scrap diet fads and stop worrying about weight gain dur-
ing the infamous freshman 15. Instead, make those pounds count in Gainesville restaurants that turn pizza into glorious cheesy masterpieces. Whether you are looking for the “every 
day” pizza or the “I’m-too-drunk-to-use-the-stove” pizza, one 
of these places is sure to ﬁ  t in with your new college lifestyle.
#1: A Perfect Pie
A building only big enough to ﬁ  t a large brick oven and 
three cooks is the secret spot for one of the best slices of New York style pizza in Gainesville. Located at 1818 NE Waldo Road, the small family-owned pizzeria is stocked with fresh ingredients that cater to most people’s pizza needs, ranging from ground gianelli sausage to feta cheese. Getting there is 
kind of a hassle, but thankfully they deliver their handmade 
pies until 3 a.m. on the weekends, making it easier for you to cure those drunken munchies. The shop is also equipped with a drive thru and a tiny window for street orders.
The best thing about A Perfect Pie is their price. For $2, 
you can buy a bigger-than-your-face slice of their signature cheese and garlic pizza. A Perfect Pie is open Monday through Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 1 a.m. and Thursday through Sunday from 10 a.m. to 3 a.m.
#2: Leonardo’s Pizza by the Slice
You can almost smell Leonardo’s pizza from UF’s campus 
since it’s located right next door at 1245 W University Ave.
Their menu features both “thin” pies and “thick” pies, 
which relates to how “ﬂ  uffy” you like your pizza. Toppings cater to both meat lovers and vegetarians, ranging from pep-peroni to tempeh. You don’t have to feel left out of the pizza party if your vegan or gluten intolerant because Leonardo’s caters to you as well. Sometimes all you need is a quick bite under $5, and Leonardo’s Slice of the Day is a perfect ﬁ  t. Each day of the week has a pizza associated to it, so you can plan which days you’ll be spending your time eating there.
Leonardo’s is open daily from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.
#3: Satchel’s Pizza
Located at 1800 NE 23rd Ave is the always wacky and cra-
zy Satchel’s Pizza. You know you’re getting close to Satchel’s when metal sculptures, a white picket fence and mismatched art projects are poking out from the horizon. And that’s not even the half of it.
For the full Satchel experience, start by dining in the vin-
tage Volkswagen Bus parked out front, order from a menu ranging from pizzas to calzones to salads and sip on home-made soda made with cane sugar. Ready for sweets? You’ll receive a dessert menu in the form of a View-Master.
The wait can be long, but right next door is a junk store 
slash performance venue Lightnin’ Salvage. Your table will be ready by the time you’ve looked through every nook and cranny. The store has an ATM for customers who forget that 
Satchel’s is cash-only; plus, all ATM fees go to charity.
Satchel’s is open Tuesday through Saturday from 11 a.m. 
to 10 p.m.
#4: Big Lou’s NY Style Pizzeria
Downtown Gainesville is home to many restaurants, but 
no one comes close to the taste of the ﬂ  at crispy NY style 
pizza at Big Lou’s, located at 5 SE Second Ave. Plastic picnic tablecloths and paper plates accent the casual atmosphere of the pizzeria. The staff is friendly, even when the line stretches 
out the door during lunch rush. An added bonus is their Wi-
Fi password is also their phone number: 352-335-7123. Big Lou’s is home to pizza, subs, calzones, stromboli, pasta and to-die-for garlic rolls. The daily special is only $3 and is usu-ally pretty tasty. Big Lou’s NY Style Pizzeria is open Monday through Thursday 11 a.m. to 10 p.m., Friday from 11 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., Saturday from noon until 2:30 p.m. and Sunday from noon until 10 p.m.
#5: Gumby’s Pizza
Fun fact: Gumby’s restaurant logo is based off of Gumby 
the clay animation. 
Located at 2028 SW 34th St., Gumby’s is best known for 
their Pokey Stix’s (pizza dough covered in cheese, butter and garlic), but it is their specialty pizzas that are underrated. 
You want mozzarella sticks, French fries, pepperoni, bacon 
and extra cheese all in one place? Then Gumby’s Stoner Pie is for you. Bacon Cheeseburger, Baked Ziti and Chicken Ba-con Ranch are among their many specialty options available. Late at night or stopping by for lunch, Gumby’s offers hot and cold subs, buffalo and chicken wings, pasta, salads and wraps. Download the menu off their website and you will receive coupons to cushion the cost of your pizza addiction.
Gumby’s Pizza is open Sunday through Thursday 11 a.m. 
to 3 a.m. and Friday through Saturday from 11 a.m. to 4 a.m.22   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 
/uni2219 NEW STUDENT EDITION
Cho Sungwhan / Alligator
Tilman Monsanto (left), a 22-year-old UF anthropology student, and John Grinnan, a 21-year-old UF mar-
keting student, eat pizza at Leonardo’s on Aug. 9.
Top ﬁ  ve places to grab a fresh slice in Gainesville
Gainesville: A pizza lover’s haven
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
NEW STUDENT EDITION  /uni2219 MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   23
The Do’s and Don’ts of College Etiquette
DO’S DON’TS
 Blast your music on the bus, or really any public 
place.
 Not everyone has your awesome taste in music, and some of us are 
even trying to cram one last study session on the way to campus. It’s annoying and as far as social skills go, you might as well pass gas in an elevator.
 Always wear your lanyard.
 Wearing your lanyard is like wearing a sign that says, “Hey! I’m a 
freshman.”
 Brag about partying.
 We get it. You’ve been to Midtown. Bragging about drinking, hooking 
up and whatever you consumed the night before is kind of like brag-ging to a classmate that you go to college. Also, don’t have hickeys. They suck.
 Take yourself too seriously.
 Not only is this annoying to the people around you, but it can actually 
make you miss out on a lot of really cool stuff around you. Don’t be 
too cool for anything or anyone. College is the perfect time to develop 
an open mind.
 Waste your time and money.
 Being here is costing you something—in most cases it’s time and mon-
ey. You wouldn’t go on an all-day shopping spree just to set everything you bought on ﬁ  re would you?
 Spend tons of money on textbooks.
 You do need your books, but buying them new from the bookstore 
can be really expensive. There are plenty of used, digital, renting and 
digital rental options for textbooks that will save you so much money.  Get help when you need it.
 Talk to your family and friends about your problems, and if you need 
to go to the counseling and wellness center, college is a very stressful 
time and at some point we all need some support.
 Actually watch your lecture videos.
 Binge watching Netﬂ  ix is pretty much the best and it will most likely 
be a staple of your time in college, but binge watching lecture videos is pretty much the worst and it will also most likely be a staple of your time in college.
 Introduce yourself to your professor, and in class if 
you know an answer just say it.
 This doesn’t mean you have to be a teacher’s pet or seemingly the 
one person who studies, but it will show your professor that you care. Whether you actually do or not, when you inevitably have an issue and need their help at least you just won’t be another face in the crowd.
• Go to ofﬁ  ce hours, and not just when you have a 
problem.
 Seriously, go. Do it. Do. It.
 Be a good roommate.
 Pretty much everyone has a horror story about that one horrible room-
mate, and that’s not a good story to star in. Now sometimes this is out 
of your control, but just do your part.
 Take time for yourself.
 College can be a very stressful time and sometimes it really is just nec-
essary to take a second and appreciate where you are. Remember, you 
earned this and you deserve to be here.
Joshua Williamson / Alligator
24   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 /uni2219 NEW STUDENT EDITION
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
Professors and older students 
tell you to drop a few thousand dol-
lars, get a passport and pack your 
bags to study abroad.  
They’ll tell you that you’re off to 
faraway places, but they don’t tell 
you how you’re going to get there.
Picking what study abroad trip 
to go on is the easy part: You’ll determine the region of the world you want to visit, what you’re in-terested in learning about and what 
your price range is.
But after you’ve done your ba-
sic research on the UF International 
Center’s website, you’ll need to ﬁ  g-
ure out how to get where you want to go.
That’s why we compiled the 
top things you’ll need to plan for a 
successful spring or summer study abroad trip.
A sense of direction
When you settle on your ideal 
study abroad location, chances are you’ll have a list.  
It will detail the landmarks you 
want to visit, the neighborhoods you want to explore and the res-taurants you want to dine at.  
But getting to that to-die-for 
bakery isn’t so easy when you’re alone without Internet.
Starting now, try taking yourself 
to new places in Gainesville (and 
then back home) via your feet or 
public transit. These will likely be the easiest and cheapest modes of transportation in the country you’re planning on visiting.
Having a clear sense of what 
direction you came from will be in-valuable when navigating the tram system sans professor or getting back to your hostel late at night.
A passport
Apply for your passport well be-
fore your trip, just in case there are hold-ups with your application. 
The easiest place to apply is UF 
Mail & Document Services, which is across the street from Lakeside Complex on Radio Road.
Be sure to bring a check or mon-
ey to pay your passport application fee. Credit and debit cards are not accepted.
Weather app
If you’ve lived in Florida your 
entire life, your view of cold weath-er might be skewed, and chances are slim that you’ve thought about windchill and dry air.
Check your weather app on 
your phone, and take those below-70-degrees temperatures to heart.  
The best way to prepare for the 
weather abroad is to experience 
as much of it as you can here.  As 
the weather gets cooler, note how many items of clothing you need for a day outside in October, No-
vember and December. This way, 
you’ll know how many you’ll need on a 50-degree day in London.
Friends from last year’s 
program
As much as a weather app, a 
sense of direction and Google can help you, nothing is as valuable as someone who was in your shoes 
last year.  
Learn from their mistakes and 
their triumphs.  Try the food they 
tell you they dream about.  Heed their warnings about sketchy areas.  
And understand that the culture 
you’re about to experience could be much more conservative (i.e. no shorts in Paris) or liberal (i.e. 
openly drinking beer on the trains 
in Germany) than you are used to.
A couple grand
Start saving now.Study abroad trips are expen-
sive, but you can afford it if you 
get a part-time job and save part of 
every paycheck. 
Remember that studying abroad 
usually covers housing, some 
meals and group excursions but 
doesn’t normally include plane tickets and souvenirs.
Bon voyage.Planning on studying abroad? Here’s what you will need
At the least, a passport
“Picking what study 
abroad trip to go on is the 
easy part…”NEW STUDENT EDITION  /uni2219 MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   25
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
Just a few blocks from campus is 
Gainesville’s downtown scene, which is 
upscale while keeping with the young vibe 
of our city.  
When you’re looking to upgrade from 
Leonardo’s Pizza by the Slice and Chipotle 
in midtown, we recommend heading east 
on University Avenue.
Harry’s Seafood Bar & Grille, 
110 SE 1st St.
You’ll ask for the fried green tomatoes 
when you settle into the cozy outdoor seats 
at Harry’s. Make yourself comfortable and 
people watch.  
With renovated Louisiana dishes paired 
with grits and smashed potatoes, the brick restaurant is polished without being 
pretentious.
Best for:  Low-key fancy birthday dinner
What you’ll pay:  $8 to $21
Liquid Ginger, 101 SE 4th Ave.
Nestled in the Sun Center, which is 
adjacent to the Hippodrome State Theater, Liquid Ginger is the best place for freshly 
prepared Chinese, especially if you’re 
interested in vegetarian options.  
Its lunch prices are inexpensive enough 
to treat your family.
Best for:  Quiet lunch with your parentsWhat you’ll pay: $5 to $25
Crane Ramen, 16 SW 1st Ave.
Don’t let Crane Ramen’s small interior 
and long waits deter you. 
The restaurant’s ramen — adorned with 
a soy-marinated egg and fresh greens — is a serious upgrade from the cheap packs in your pantry. It’s a little pricey for what is essentially a bowl of soup, but it is way 
worth it. 
Best for:  Classy and trendy girls’ nights
What you’ll pay:  $10 to $19
The Gelato Company, 11 SE 1st 
Ave.
Gelato is a ﬂ  avorful alternative to ice 
cream because it’s churned super slowly, which lets less air get in the dessert.  Although you can eat inside, we 
recommend catching up with a friend by taking your birthday cake or cinnamon cheesecake gelato on a walk through downtown. 
Best for:  Cheap, portable dessertWhat you’ll pay:  $4 to $6
Vellos Brickstreet Grill, 115 SE 
1st St.
One of Vellos servers painted the 
colorful artwork that lines its walls.  
That makes two things at Vellos 
colorful: its chic-yet-funky design and its ﬂ  avorful food.  
Order an orchard ﬂ  atbread, which is 
topped with apples and candied pecans, or 
try the barbecue ribs with warm macaroni.
Best for:  Treating your signiﬁ  cant other 
to dinner
What you’ll pay:  $9 to $23Going out on the (down)town a must when in GNV
DINING
“When you’re looking to upgrade 
from Leonardo’s Pizza by the 
Slice and Chipotle in midtown, 
we recommend heading east on 
University Avenue.”
26   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 /uni2219 NEW STUDENT EDITION
By Nicole Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
ngomez@alligator.org
Puff, puff, pass. Smoking may be bad for almost every organ 
in the body, as the CDC’s fact sheet says, but according to ABC 
News, a third of college students do it anyway.
If you’re going to use tobacco, why not get creative? Hoo-
kahs, water pipes and a host of other accessories are there to be bought. Here are some good Gainesville places to ﬁ  nd them.
High Tides Tobacco and Gifts, 2413 SW 13th St.
The ﬁ  rst time I visited this shop, the girl behind the coun-
ter threw a glass pipe onto the ﬂ  oor while I watched. It didn’t break.
High Tides has great gifts and decorations and the prettiest 
and strongest glass I’ve seen in Gainesville. It’s also the only 
store in town authorized to carry RooR water pipes, according to decorator Kayla Afrin.
Gator Tobacco, 101 SE Second Place
This shop may be no bigger than my living room, but it 
holds an impressive selection of necessities. Tucked into Sun 
Center downtown, it has pipes, hookahs and cigarettes, but also the stock of a small gas station: beer, wine, snacks, deodorant and aspirin.
Smoke City, 2120 SW 34th St.
Part of a chain based in Jacksonville, this store carries a sweet blown-glass collection of jewelry, jars and (of course) pipes. Its chill, colorful atmosphere and cute knit hats that look like animals make it a fun place to shop.
Modern Age Tobacco & Gift Shop, 1122 W. Uni-
versity Ave.
By far the biggest shop on this list, Modern Age has a broad 
selection of pieces in pretty much every price range. 
But it also has the most and worst Google reviews of any 
Gainesville shop, with many complaining about the customer service.
The 75-cent candy bars and 69-cent canned sodas might 
make it worth visiting anyway. Or the room stocked with “XXX DVDs,” if you’re into that.
Nicole Gomez/Alligator Staff
Sales associate Abby Sanchez poses behind the counter with a decorative inﬂ  atable Sriracha bottle at 
Smoke Ciy.
Want to get your smoke on? Check out these storesBy Laura Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
lgomez@alligator.org
You made it to the Gator nation and ev-
eryone back home is thinking you’re here 
for the ﬁ  rst thing you thought of right after 
the fact that you were accepted to the Har-
vard of the South: the college party scene.
First off, congratulations and welcome, 
new Gators. With that being said, it would 
be a crime not to celebrate the only way we 
college kids know how.
Whether you’re posing as your older 
sibling for the night or you’re transferring of age, we all know you weren’t just lured 
in by the majestic view of Century Tower 
or the breathtaking sight at the very top of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
Right across the street from campus, 
memories are waiting to be made so I’m here to give you a Wednesday-Saturday breakdown of party specials. Take a break from Sunday to Tuesday. You’ll thank me later.
Wednesday:
The infamous Ladies Night in midtown. 
You’ll probably ﬁ  nd yourself religiously hitting up Grog, Shuck and Cantina every 
single week so here’s a guide to help you 
prepare for your night out.Grog House, 1718 W. University 
Ave.
Girls and guys over 21 pay a $5 cover 
all night, and ladies drink free until 12:30 a.m. Girls and guys under 21 pay a $7 
cover. Girls and guys under 18: Don’t get 
caught with a drink here. You will, with-out a doubt, get kicked out. If you like Top 40s and the occasional throwback, you’re 
in the right place. P.S. Don’t wear white 
shoes or sandals here. Just don’t.
Shuck Restaurant & Raw Bar, 
1643 NW First Ave.
Girls and guys over 21 pay a $5 cover 
all night, and ladies drink free until 12:30 a.m. Girls and guys under 21 pay a $7 cov-
er. If you’re into dropping it low to some 
hip-hop, this is your new Wednesday night spot.
101 Cantina, 1632 W. Univer-
sity Ave.
Here guys and girls will pay no cover all 
night! The catch: The drink specials end earlier. Girls drink free from 9 to 11 p.m so 
get there early. This is your spot for Top 
40s and dance music, but it’s more of a drinking hangout than a dance ﬂ  oor.
Thursday:
Thursday nights in Gainesville are for 
one of two things: recovering from a bad ladies night or making up for the ladies night you missed. Luckily, there’s one spot in town that’ll allow you to do just both. 
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar, 
112 S. Main St.
The piano bar hosts a college night ev-
ery Thursday. Guests 21 and up can enter free of charge and expect to hear live music 
from the piano men. Ladies drink free from 
8 p.m. to 11 p.m. and guys and gals 18+ are welcome. P.S. You and 15 others have already requested Billy Joel’s “Piano Man.” 
Just wait for it.
Balls, 1716 W. University Ave.
If you’re not into live music, you may 
want to hit up Balls in midtown for all-
you-can-drink. Guys pay $7 and girls pay 
$5 from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. Fun fact: The 
bar rings you up as Balls Bookstore. You’re welcome.
Friday:
It’s your ﬁ  rst Friday in Gainesville so 
you have to do it right. Being broke is not an excuse in this town, especially not with 
these specials.
Eight Seconds, 201 W. University 
Ave.If you’ve got a country soul, you might 
want to check out what the buzz is about 
in Eight Seconds. On Fridays, the bar 
serves free well drinks until midnight, $1 
Michelob Ultra and Corona, and $3 Captain Morgan and Parrot Bay. If you don’t love you some beer and some country music 
yet, you will soon. Guys and gals 21+ pay 
$9 and under pay $7.
Envy Nightclub, 1728 W. Uni-
versity Ave.
Every Friday is Quarter Drink Fridays. 
From 9 p.m. to midnight, guests can enjoy 25-cent wells. That’s 20 drinks for $5. Just 
let that sink in.
Saturday:
If you’ve taken advantage of all these 
drink specials through Saturday, take a 
break and go home. You deserve some 
rest—and possibly some medical attention.
However, if you backed out mid-week, 
we’ve got the right way to end your Satur-
day on a budget. 
Grog House, 1718 W. Univer-
sity Ave.
Back to square one. You’ve made it full 
circle. Every Saturday night, Grog has free drinks for girls and guys until 12:30 p.m. 
so go on in and beat the clock. Cover is 
$5 for 21+ and $7 for under 21. See you there.How to party your way through the week on a budget
NIGHTLIFE
Stay Out of Tobacco Trouble
The Alligator does not endorse breaking any law 
or store or school policy. Here are some you should 
know about.
 UF prohibits tobacco use anywhere on campus 
“with no exception,” and Santa Fe allows it only in private vehicles, parking lots and des-ignated smoking areas.
 Possession or purchase of tobacco products by anyone under 18 is illegal under Title XXXIV, Chapter 569 of the Florida statutes.
 Don’t talk about using products for any illegal purpose or substance in a store. This will al-ways get you asked to leave, according to Char-lie Akoury, a cashier at Gator Tobacco.
“Take a break from Sunday to 
Tuesday. You’ll thank me later.”BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4000 SW 23rd St, Furnished,  pool view,  bus lines 9 & 35, $385/room/mo. Yr lease, $250 dep, $150 elec allow. Cable & Internet incl, studious-nonsmoking. Not a party place. No pets. Bonus avail. for bring -
ing roommates. 4 rooms avail (1 now & 3 Aug 4th). Call 941 661 0462 lv. msg    8-17-15-7-1
DONT LIVE AT THE WRONG PLACE
Countryside at the University
4000 SW 23rd St.
4BR/4BA. Excellence for student achieve -
ment at UF. Individual lease. $395.
Call for details Bristol Park Realty
Phone 352-367-2669 or 
bristolparkmanagement.com
All applications in person
rich@bristolparkrealty.com
8-28-15-11-1
1BR/BA available in 4BR/4BA condo @ Countryside. Furnished with bed, desk, chair and bookshelf. $400/mo. Utilities, cable and internet included. Bus rts 9, 35. E-mail coun-trysideapt@gmail.com    8-17-2-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATION
Fall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly renovated 4/3 apt home. Starting 
at $2200. Parking included. Steps to UF & 
Stadium. Now leasing for Fall.
For info call 352-872-4644
www.alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
8-17-15-12-2
5 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-2
Avail 4 bdrm Houses/Rooms!Rent House or Room2635 W Univ $1500305 NW 28th $1800call Eric 352-6827424     8-17-15-5-2Units for Rent, Near UF
● 3/2 house, 1-mile to Law School $975/mon
● 2 /2.5 in Casablanca $750/mon
Classic Prop of N FL, Inc / 352-331-2100     
8-24-15-5-2    
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
8-31-15-8-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!
Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available im-mediately! $2200/mo. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    8-17-15-2-2
ABSOLUTELY BEAUTIFUL 3BR/3.5BA, 3 blks north of O'Dome & UF. 2200 sq ft  + over-sized 2-car garage. Too many quality amenities to list + low utils in this 7 yr old exec-style home. $2100/mo. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt. 352-372-1509    8-17-15-2-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor in LR. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $675/mo. Call Joe 727-423-9463    8-28-15-6-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1ST1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   8-28-15-7-2Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
Secluded Alachua home, 2000, 8.9 acres, 3br/2ba 2440SF, well/septic, open plan, darkwd fireplace, vaulted ceiling, stor-age, pasture, convenient to Gville, springs! $286,500 NEG Exit Realty Producers Sue Paper 301-806-8935   8-25-15-5-5
Only 10 minutes to campus. 3bdrms, 2 baths, lots of parking, just renovated 2831 NE 11 Dr, $114,900 Helen Robb, Realtor, Mitchell Realty, 352-871-4413    8-24-15-2-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA
Excellent condition. Asking $450. Text 352-727-5337    8-17-15-1-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-17-15-14-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 
Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
SAWMILLS from only $4,397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In Stock, ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N    8-17-1-10
 1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 7 Computers28   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 ∙ NEW STUDENT EDITION
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales andScooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   8-17-25-11
Scooter for Sale, Still under warranty.  You need a motorcycle license. $1,000. Comes with cover and lock. Text or call after 6pm 352-219-8190                8-25-15-4-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.Training and liability insurance provided. Please call352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13
WANTED: ACOUSTIC BASS
For student. Ok if needs repair. Please call 
Mr. Greene 352-473-0646    8-24-3-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-17-15-25-14
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted
1. How many times did the New 
York Yankees fail to make the play-
offs during shortstop Derek Jeter’s 
20-year career with the team?
2. In 2014, Denard Span set a Wash-
ington Nationals record for most hits 
in a season (184). Who had held the 
mark?  
3. Who is the only member of the 
Pro Football Hall of Fame to also hit 
a home run in his first major-league 
at-bat?
4. When was the last time before 
2014 (Kentucky and UConn) that the two teams in the NCAA Tournament men’s basketball title game did not make the tourney the year before?
5. Who holds the goaltender record 
for most shutouts in a season for the Washington Capitals? 
6. Of Jimmie Johnson and Jeff 
Gordon, who has recorded more 
NASCAR Cup wins at Martinsville?
7. In 2015, Andy Murray, became 
the second Open Era male tennis play-er to lose four finals at a Grand Slam event and never win it. Who was the 
first?
Answers
1. Three times - 2008, 2013-14.
2. Cristian Guzman, with 183 hits in 
2008.
3. Clarence “Ace” Parker, for the 
Philadelphia A’s in 1937.
4. It was 1966 (Texas Western and 
Kentucky).
5. Jim Carey (1995-96) and Braden 
Holtby (2014-15), with nine each.
6. They are tied with eight victories 
apiece.
7. Bjorn Borg, who lost four U.S. 
Open finals.
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 17, 2015 King Features Weekly Service
NEW STUDENT EDITION  ∙ MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR    29 
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Gestational Surrogate Needed
to carry our embryo, no egg or sperm dona -
tion required. 1 yr living expenses covered. Text for additional information 305-582-9800    
8-28-15-24-14DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, withgood customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
Wanted. Energetic, hard working fitness mind-
ed individual to sell high quality merchandise at Gainesville's longest standing  (39 years and counting) LOCAL Sporting Goods store. Apply in person only, full or part time position will be entertained for the right individual. Lloyd Clarke Sports  1504 NW 13th St    8-25-15-10-14
Gator Dining Serviceslocated on the University of Florida Campus, is now hiring  part-time cashiers, baristas, line cooks, servers and utility positions for the Fall Semester. We over flexible sched-ules, competitive pay, and a great working environment. Those interested in joining this dynamic team can apply on line at www.ga-tordining.com, no paper application are ac-cepted. EEO/Drug free Workplace.
Aramark is an EQUAL EMPLOYMENT 
OPPORTUNITY/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION employer. Candidates are considered for employment with Aramark without regard to their race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, gender, pregnancy, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic informa-tion, military status, protected veteran status or other classification protected by applica -
ble federal, state or local law    8-17-15-9-14
Chef/Cook Wanted.
Looking for a cook to work 9-5 Monday 
through Friday. For more information please 
email gainesvillecook@gmail.com    8-17-
15-5-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '15Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible Hours!
Positions Available:
Event Supervisor, Warehouse Staff, Cook
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
8-17-15-5-14
JANITORIAL WORK3:30 pm - 6:30 pm   Mon thru FriMust have experience, pass background check, work well with others. Send resume via fax 352-373-6012 or email info@allcleanfl.com    8-24-15-5-14
Office Ass't-F/T One of these Passions-FX Show Justified/health&fitness/TedTalks. Rhonda Rousey follower, non stalker a plus. Excellent writing skills, Love to read, Math interest. 1 yr+ commitment. paulsrothstein@gmail.com 8-25-15-5-14HOME/OFFICE/APARTMENT CLEANER NEEDED if interested please call 352-214-0868..MUST own a reliable car, pass a back-ground, drug ,and reference check. Paying $8/hr and weekly pay..    8-27-15-5-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week! NO experience Needed! Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    8-17-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    8-17-1-14
ATTN: Drivers - $2K Sign-On BonusRecent Pay Increase! We Put Drivers FirstFamily Company w/ 401k Beautiful Trucks CDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782 www.drive4melton.com    8-17-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    8-17-1-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE   8-17-1-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  
8-17-15-25-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-
15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"1
1312111098765432
University City Church of 
Christ
Gators for Christ 
campus ministry college
group meets at
University City Church on 
Sundays at 9am and
Wednesdays at 7pm
Practical application from 
God’s word, plus service 
projects, large group events, free 
meals, and much more... 
(directions and events 
calendar at 
www.gatorsforchrist.org) 
For rides please call: 
352-514-8261
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner.
8:30pm Summer
7:30pm Spring/Fall, 
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.com
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30pm, Sun. 
9am, 11:30, 1:30 (espanol), 
5:30, 7:30
M-F 12& 5:30 pm.  
Get Involved!
www.catholicgators.org
Gator Wesley Center
United Methodist Campus Min.
www.gatorwesley.com
Worship:
Sundays @ 11:00am
Bible Study:
Wednesday @ 7:00pm
1380 W. University Ave.
Trinity United Methodist
Contemporary: Wednesday, 6:35p
Coffee Talk for college, 7:30p
Sunday Worship, 8:15, 9:40 11a
376-6615 TrinityGNV .org
Chapel of the Incarnation
The EpiscoGators Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30pm 
1552 W University Ave
 across the street from 
Library West.
First Lutheran Church of 
Gainesville
Sunday Bible Study 9am,
Coffee 10am,
Worship Service 10:30am
www.flcgainesville.org
1201 NW 5th Ave 
352 376 2062
For information on advertising in the Worship Guide, 
contact Marcella Tortorici.
Alligator Advertising
352.376.4482
Faith Presbyterian 
Church
Pastor Steve Lammers
Join us Sundays at 10am
5916 NW 39th Ave
352 377-5482
faithgainesville.org
faith@faithgainesville.org
First Presbyterian Church 
of Gainesville
Sunday worship  
8:30 and 10:55 am
Join us for lunch after Sunday 
worship.
College Fellowship  
Wednesday 7:30pm
Fellowship, worship, Bible 
study and recreation.
Contact Scott Stuart at 
college@1stpc.org
Gainesville Quaker 
Meeting
Religious Society of Friends
Worship in Silence and Speak
as the Spirit Moves You
Sunday at 11am
Followed by food and fellowship
Advocating for world peace, 
non-violence, tolerance, 
economic
justice and protection of the 
environment.
ALL WELCOME
702 NW 38th Street
352-372-1070
www.gainesvillequakers.orgPresbyterianQuaker
EpiscopalLutheran
CatholicJewish
MethodistNon-Denominational
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services30   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 ∙ NEW STUDENT EDITION
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service
24 hrs a day. Reservations available.
Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    8-17-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!
Rated 5-Star on Google Play!
Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.RED'S TAVERN Mo.-Free Pool, Tu.-Bike Night, Wed.-Ladies Night, Th.-Men's Night, Fr.-Karaoke, Sa.-Open Mike Su.-Free Pool/$1 PBR Drafts Get 1 free House draft w/ Student ID. HWY 27 Ft White 352-339-6978 8-17-5-21
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDWant to make a connection?Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Event Notices
Sherlockians
interested in joining with others so inclined 
in a new, online scion society, please send 
email ASAP to ceb221b@gmail.com.    9-1-
15-15-19
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!15 Services 23 Rides 24 Pets
 19 Connections 23 RidesHead coach Becky Burleigh 
and the UF soccer team plan to build on their Elite Eight finish last season. Read the team preview on pg. 32.Follow us online for updates
Go to alligator.org/sports and followus on Twitter @alligatorSports for updates. By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Off the field, Will Grier and 
Treon Harris can be seen around 
Gainesville eating dinner, hanging 
out and joking together.
But once practice starts, the two 
friends become competitors work-
ing towards the same goal: set your-
self apart from the other and be-
come Florida’s starting quarterback.
During Spring practice, UF coach 
Jim McElwain said the quarterback battle had no definite timeline and 
would be decided sometime be-
fore the Gators opened their season against New Mexico State on Sept. 5. 
But with less than three weeks 
until the opening kickoff, just who will be leading the offense in McEl-wain’s inaugural year has yet to be determined.
“When you talk about the po-
sition of quarterback, each guy, they’re very different,” UF offensive 
coordinator Doug Nussmeier said. 
“(Harris and Grier) are two differ-ent guys. They both have certain strengths and certain weaknesses.”
McElwain has spoken often of 
rebranding Florida and making the program a national contender.
For that to happen, not only 
must McElwain and staff make a 
choice, it has to be the right one.
If not, the Gators may fall back 
into the rut they’re attempting to 
emerge from, One that started with 
choosing Jeff Driskel over Jacoby 
Brissett. 
•   •   •To put it rather bluntly, neither 
Harris nor Grier is perfect nor bla-tantly more talented than the other.
Grier is the pocket passer who 
has experience playing under cen-ter, a style of play that would seem like the perfect fit for McElwain’s 
offense.
Yet the well-documented inexpe-
rience along Florida’s offensive line 
— guard Trip Thurman returns as the lone consistent starter from last season’s team — might make the coaches see Harris as the best fit for the system.
Harris started six games last sea-
son for the Gators after Jeff Driskel proved ineffective against Tennes-see. His mobility and quickness 
could be necessary if the Gators 
can’t keep the opposing defense away from the quarterback.
If anything, it may seem alarm-
ing that UF hasn’t selected a quar-terback. The offensive playmakers 
need to develop a rapport with the 
quarterback in order to be success-ful — and vice versa. 
“It takes a lot to win the job in 
this offense. You have to keep the team pumped up, you have to lead by example, have the guys trust you,” Harris said. “At this level, you have to learn to be a leader.”
With Grier and Harris splitting 
repetitions, there are legitimate con-cerns that neither quarterback has had enough time with the first-team offense.
McElwain hopes none of that 
matters. He doesn’t need his quar-terback to be perfect, but rather limit the crucial mistakes that kill 
drives and lose games.
“(Sometimes), some of the great-
est quarterbacks out there maybe 
didn’t have the greatest arm,” McEl-wain said at UF’s Media Day on 
Aug. 5. “They maybe didn’t have 
the greatest feet, but for whatever reason the team moved successfully down the field. They didn’t turn it 
over, and they won games.”
Despite the acknowledgement of 
possible success with an imperfect 
quarterback, McElwain said neither quarterback has an advantage.
“I guess if you’re asking is there 
a separation yet I haven’t really seen it,” McElwain said. “But I will say this, their command is what 
I’ve been really happy with.”
If assessing the quarterbacks 
based on skill and watching them 
in practice isn’t enough to decide on a starting quarterback, then there’s 
no clear indication of what McEl-
wain wants at the position.
There isn’t game tape of Grier, 
and there’s none of Harris in the 
system. Could McElwain simply be 
playing coy until the season opens, hoping to limit the game-plan op-portunities of Florida’s foes? A pos-sible strategy, sure, but it would 
come at the expense of the rest of 
the team.
However it’s looked at, Florida is 
better off with deciding on a starting 
quarterback now rather than later.
Whether it’s Grier or Harris, hav-
ing an affirmed starter against New 
Mexico State is necessary to the team recapturing its sense of iden-
tity.NEW STUDENT EDITION
MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Volleyball and soccer projected to win SEC
The Florida volleyball and soccer teams have been picked to win the 
Southeastern Conference by the head coaches in the league. The Volleyball 
team is the defending SEC champion while the soccer team finished second last year behind T exas A&M. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Will Grier passes during practice on Aug. 8 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Coach Jim 
McElwain has yet to decide on a starting quarterback. 
Grier, Harris still competing for starting quarterback job
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ian Cohen 
and Alex Maminakis
@icohenb, @alexmaminakis
Alligator Staff Writers
Billy Donovan, who coached the Gators 
men's basketball team for 19 years before de-
parting in April for the NBA, watched his final season at Florida end in mediocrity. 
Although the coach cemented his place in 
college basketball history by reaching 500 wins on Feb. 28 against Tennessee, the Gators failed to qualify for the NCAA Tournament or the Na-tional Invitation Tournament for the first time in 18 years.
Their 16-17 record was the worst mark 
since the 1997-1998 season — Donovan’s sec-ond year at UF — when UF finished 14-15.
And while the Gators lost some valuable 
shooting with Michael Frazier II opting for the NBA Draft and Eli Carter transferring, the tal-
ent cupboard is far from bare. 
Redshirt senior forward Dorian Finney-
Smith is back after having a breakout season 
for the Gators where he led the team in scoring and rebounding.
Alex Murphy, a Duke transfer and the 
brother of former Gator Erik Murphy, will re-turn likely in a sixth man role. Kasey Hill seems poised 
to breakout as UF’s starting point guard this year, bar-ring any setback in his pro-gression. 
Last season, UF’s rota-
tion heavily relied on a pair 
of freshmen: Chris Chiozza 
and Devin Robinson. 
Chiozza is a quick guard 
with a slick handle who shot 39 percent from the field and finished second on the team be-hind Hill with 72 assists.
Robinson also showed flashes at times, dis-
playing athleticism on the perimeter and above the rim as well as a knack for getting in the paint. 
He finished the season averaging six points 
and nearly three rebounds per game in 19 min-utes. 
After adding some much-needed size to his 
frame, Robinson is hoping to cement himself 
as a versatile starting forward in Florida’s rota-
tion. 
All of Florida’s pieces will have a fresh start 
in a new system under Michael White, the for-mer Louisiana Tech coach who was hired in May after Donovan left for the NBA. Florida enters transition period as Mike White takes overMcElwain: There's still no separation
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 34White
By Kyle Brutman 
and Ryan Summers
Alligator Writers
@KBrut13, @RyanSummers18
The 2015 Florida soccer team 
is gearing up for another season 
under Becky Burleigh, who heads into her 21st year at the top of the program. 
The team will look to improve 
upon its 2014 season, which end-ed with a 17-4-2 record and a west coast loss to Stanford in the Elite Eight of the NCAA tourney — the Gators’ first trip to the national quarterfinals since 2003. 
Florida comes into 2015 with-
out three of its top four point scor-
ers from last season, after losing 
Havana Solaun, Annie Speese and Tessa Andujar to graduation. 
The trio combined for 27 of the 
team’s 59 assists, which ranked sixth nationally. 
Goalie and co-captain Taylor 
Burke, who tied a program record with 27 career shutouts, also grad-
uated following the 2014 season. 
Leading Florida’s attack is ju-
nior forward Savannah Jordan, 
who led the Southeastern Confer-ence in six individual categories and was named to the NSCAA All-America second team.
Seniors Christen Westphal 
(first-team All-SEC in 2014) and 
Claire Falknor (second-team All-
SEC), who played an average of 87.3 and 89 minutes of each 90-minute match last season re-spectively, return to lead UF’s backline.
The Gators added 15 players to the 2015 roster during the off-season, welcoming the newest of Burleigh’s signing classes. 
The recruiting class is high-lighted by the 2014 and 2015 Flor-ida Dairy Farmers Miss Soccer, Melanie Monteagudo, who led American Heritage High School in Plantation to three consecutive Florida High School Athletic Asso-ciation Class 3A titles. 
Monteagudo set Broward 
County records for most goals scored (63) and assists (30) in the 
2013-14 season. 
Other incoming players for the 
2015 season include midfielder 
Sabrina Chung who missed most of the 2013-14 and 2014-15 sea-sons with a broken toe in her right foot and U.S. Youth U17 National Team member, midfielder Mayra Pelayo. 
A major question mark for the 
team heading into the season is which player will start at goalie for the Gators. 
The options are redshirt junior 
Valerie Tysinger, who has played in nine games in her three-year career but hasn’t received a start, or freshman Kaylan Marckese, 
who has a two-inch height advan-
tage on the veteran keeper. 
The Gators open the 2015 sea-
son against UCF on Aug. 21 and will start the year on a three-game road trip before returning to James G. Pressly Stadium to play in-state rival and 2014 National Champi-ons Florida State on Aug. 30.
Florida will attempt to defend 
its undefeated home record (10-0-0) from a year ago. 
The last time the Gators lost 
a home match was in October of 2013 — a streak of 15 straight games.32   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 
∙ NEW STUDENT EDITION
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF defender Claire Falknor waits for the start of the second period during Florida’s 2-1 win against 
Troy in an exhibition match on Aug. 11 at the soccer practice field at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
TEAM PREVIEW
UF soccer reloaded, eyes another successful season
ALLIGATOR AWARDS RESULTS
Over the past six weeks, the alligatorSports staff has been debating the top UF athletes from the 2014-15 season in our annual 
Alligator Awards. The staff broke the awards into six categories and then argued which player or team was worthy of each award.  We then asked you, our readers, to vote online for the winners. Here are the results (Note: Only the top three from each award are posted).
BEST TEAM
BEST COMEBACK MOMENT BEST INDIVIDUAL MOMENT BEST FRESHMANBEST MALE ATHLETE BEST FEMALE ATHLETE
61.8%
Dante 
Fowler Jr.JJ 
Schwarz30.8% 10.3%
Marquis 
Dendy
40.0%
Chris
ChiozzaJJ 
Schwarz30.8% 12.3%
Rhamat
Alhassan
31.7%
Lauren Haeger
66th home runBilly Donovan
500 game wins26.8% 25.6%
JJ Schwarz
Four home run game
51.9%
Gymnastics
Rhonda Faehn48.1%
Softball 
Tim Walton
41.2%
Treon Harris
vs. T ennesseeJJ Schwarz 
SEC tournament31.6% 10.5%
Amanda Butler
Win over Georgia
46.2%
Lauren
HaegerKytra
Hunter38.5% 15.4%
Rhamat
AlhassanTrip Thurman will be the most impor-
tant player on Florida’s offense in 2015.
Yes, whoever ultimately wins the 
quarterback job will play a major role in deciding what the offense’s outcome 
will be. 
But it won’t matter if the offensive line 
can’t block.
That’s where Thurman — the Gators’ only 
proven commodity up front — comes in.
Thurman, a redshirt senior, is the only re-
turning lineman with even a single start under 
his belt. He played in all 12 games last season, 
starting 10 at left guard, and he got on the ﬁ  eld in all 12 games as a backup in 2013.
But besides him, the rest of the line is an 
unknown, and Thurman’s leadership abilities are going to determine the entire team’s fate this season.
Redshirt senior Mason Halter, who trans-
ferred from Fordham, did start 14 games last 
year and was an Associated Press third-team 
All-American, but those starts came against the likes of Holy Cross and Bucknell, not ex-actly juggernauts with defensive lines on the 
same level as an LSU or Georgia.
Sophomore David Sharpe played in six 
games last season but has yet to crack the 
starting lineup.
The rest of the group consists of redshirt 
sophomore Cameron Dillard, freshmen Mar-tez Ivey and Tyler Jordan and a slew of others who have limited to no experience in the col-lege game. That’s a lot of question marks.
There is talent among them to be sure, but 
adjusting to the mental and physical speed of the game and learning how to work together on the ﬂ  y will be the most crucial element of Florida’s season.
Thurman certainly believes that.“It’s very important,” he said. 
“We need everybody on the same page. Last year, Fall camp was big 
for us with the older guys getting 
everybody on the same page. That’s really key. Five guys working together doing the same thing.”
This year, getting everyone on the same page has fallen on Thurman’s shoulders, whether it be tutoring Ivey and Jordan on the playbook, 
exemplifying how to be a consum-
mate professional or pushing every-one to interact on the ﬁ  eld. But the redshirt senior has embraced the 
role.
“It makes it easier on other 
guys,” Thurman said. “I try to be a team play-
er out there and teaching the young guys and getting them on the same page is key for the depth of this offensive line.”
While it may not be noticeable to outsid-
ers, his teammates can see the effects of Thur-
man’s efforts.
“We’re all talking, we’re all communicat-
ing,” Dillard said. “Trip has helped a lot with 
that, just being a leader.”
It didn’t just start this summer, either. 
Thurman has been doing the same things ever since the departure of last year’s line.
“He’s a ﬂ  oor facilitator,” Sharpe said back 
during Spring practice. “He deﬁ  nitely knows 
his X’s and O’s. ... It’s great playing with him. 
It makes the game much easier.”
While Thurman’s impact has been felt pre-
season, the job ahead of him is still daunting.
All ﬁ  ve linemen communicating on the 
practice ﬁ  eld is far different than communicat-ing in front of more than 100,000 screaming fans in Death Valley.
That’s why so much rests of Thurman.
The rest of Florida’s offense could be the 
reincarnation of the 2013 Denver Broncos, but 
if the left tackle misses his assignment on a blitz pickup, it’s all a moot point.
The Gators need a lot of things to go their 
way offensively if they hope to reach their goal of challenging for an Southeastern Conference East title.
They need a solid quarterback.
They need a breakout season from some-
one in the backﬁ  eld.
They need game-breakers to emerge in the 
receiving corps.
But it all starts with the men in the trenches, 
and that begins and ends with Trip Thurman.NEW STUDENT EDITION  
/uni2219 MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   33
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Offensive lineman Trip Thurman speaks to media members during UF’s Media Day 
on Aug. 5 at the T ouchdown T errace at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
JUST SOME HACK
Drawing the line: Thurman will be the key for Florida’s oﬀ  ense this year
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack24
34   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 /uni2219 NEW STUDENT EDITION
White, whom many basketball ana-
lysts dubbed the nation’s next up-and-
coming head coach, is known for utiliz-ing an aggressive man-to-man defense and fast paced offense.
White was able to secure three re-
cruits signed by Donovan, and if early murmurs are any indication, fresh-man KeVaughn Allen could impact the Gators immediately. 
Allen is a 6-foot-3 guard known for 
his tremendous, natural scoring ability. 
Furthermore, Allen can create his 
own shot and has the versatility to play numerous positions in the backcourt if need be. 
Justin Leon, Keith Stone and Kevar-
rius Hayes join Allen as the four new faces, besides coaches, that will take the court for the Gators next season. 
Leon is a junior college transfer from 
Shawnee Community College in Illinois who followed White to UF after original-ly committing to Louisiana Tech. 
The 6-foot-8 forward averaged 21.5 
points and 10.0 rebounds last season at Shawnee and was named a junior col-lege All-American.
Stone and Hayes, both forwards, 
bring height and power to the Gators’ frontcourt. 
Along with the addition of Leon, the 
new forwards could solidify the rotation of consistent big men that Florida lacked last year.
Florida fans may recognize John Eg-
bunu when he takes the court this sea-son, and that’s because the transfer from USF sat out last season due to NCAA transfer rules. 
Egbunu, the 6-foot-11 redshirt sopho-
more center, will be eligible when the season begins and will likely open the season as the team’s starting center.
While the team enters the season 
with a new coach, new faces and low expectations, adding these new player options to a roster that already includes Finney-Smith, Hill, Murphy, Chiozza, Robinson and DeVon Walker, who is re-turning from injury, will provide White with depth at each position. 
If the Gators buy-in to White’s sys-
tem and avoid the me-ﬁ  rst attitudes that Donovan railed against last season, Florida could prove to be a formidable opponent with the odds against them. BASKETBALL,  from pg 31The Gators missed the postseason for the irst time in 18 years
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Forward Dorian Finney-Smith drives down the court during Florida's 68-61 loss to Kentucky on 
Feb. 7 in the O'Connell Center. 
One FREE Drink
With purchase of a meal
Redeem at any
Gainesville
Harvest Thyme
Free 
Delivery
Downtown - 2nd W. University Ave(352) 384 - 9497orMagnolia Parke - 4780 NW 39th Ave(352) 519 - 5344
SALON, BARBERSOP & MINI SPA
$500
eyebrow waxingexp 
10-17-15
Full Service • Multicultural
thecoconutsexperience.com3366 NW 13th St
352 373 7323- Massage  - Waxing
- Manicure - Highlights- Pedicure  - Hair Design- Relaxer  - Extensions 
Tier 1 GatorCare  Providers  
SIMED Health.com 
(352) 224 -2200  
GAINESVILLE · OCALA · CHIEFLAND · LADY LAKE / THE VILLAGES · MCINTOSH · LAKE CITY  
 
 
 
 Our SIMED family is here to take care of yours.  
•  Family Medicine  
•  Internal Medicine  
•  Allergy & Asthma  
•  Clinical Research  
•  Gynecology  
•  Hand Surgery   
•  Interventional Pain Management  
•  Neurology  
•  Orthopedic Surgery  
•  Spine & Neurosurgery  •  Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation  
•  Plastic Surgery   
•  Psychology  
•  Psychiatry   
•  Pulmonology  
•  Rheumatology  
•  Sleep Medicine  
•  Urology  
•  Urgent Care  
Bus Route 
#5 & #43  
NEW STUDENT EDITION  /uni2219 MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   35
By Madison Belfour
Alligator Writer
@madisonbel4
 
After the UF women’s tennis team saw its 2014-2015 
season in the semiﬁ  nals of the NCAA tournament on May 
24 in Waco, Texas, the Gators are ready to take the level 
up a notch.
UF returns all of its players from a season ago, with Bri-
anna Morgan and Brooke Austin leading the way.
Morgan, the team's lone senior, returns to lead a team of 
young, competitive players for the 2015-2016 season. 
Austin, a sophomore, is back after being named to the 
2015 United States Tennis Association Collegiate National Team in the offseason. 
Austin played on the No. 1 singles court and ﬁ  nished 
with a team-best 19-3 dual meet record and a 10-2 record in Southeastern Conference play en route to being named the SEC Player of the Year and Freshman of the Year as well 
as garnering All-American accolades for both singles and 
doubles play.
During the offseason the Gators added sophomore Anna 
Danilina. The Moscow, Russia, native brings experience to the Gators with ﬁ  ve doubles titles and one singles title since 
joining the International Tennis Federation Circuit in 2013. 
Coach Roland Thornqvist said Danilina’s presence will 
help strengthen the team.
“We couldn’t be more excited to have Anna as a Gator,” 
Thornqvist said in a release. “She’s already an accom-
plished and talented singles and doubles player and her addition to our team will make our practices even more competitive and entertaining than they have already been.” 
The women’s team will start its season in Durham, 
North Carolina, where it will play in the Duke Invite hosted by Duke University. 
While the women’s tennis team ﬁ  nished another season 
on a high note, the UF men’s tennis team is still trying to break through and get its ﬁ  rst NCAA title.
Coach Bryan Shelton enters his fourth season as the 
coach of the men’s team as he looks to rebound after a disappointing season.  
The Gators ended their 2014-2015 season with a loss to 
Pepperdine University in the ﬁ  rst round of the NCAA tour-nament May 8 at the Wake Forest Tennis Complex.
However, Florida returns a wealth of experience. 
Senior’s Diego Hidalgo and Gordon Watson return along 
with junior’s Maxx Lipman, Elliott Orkin and redshirt soph-
omore Joshua Wardell. 
Orkin and Wardell captured the doubles title in the Flor-
ida State Regional of the 2015 ITA Summer Circuit. Sopho-
more Chase Perez-Blanco, who was named to the SEC-All 
Freshman team after going 8-1 in SEC dual singles matches also returns.
The Miami native had an eight match singles winning 
streak which was the best on the team last season.   
The men’s team begins its season on Sept. 25 in Napa 
Valley, California, as the Gators will be competing in the Napa Valley Tournament. UF women's, men's tennis teams 
looking to improve in 2015 season
Alligator File Photo
Brianna Morgan hits a two-handed backhand during Florida's 
4-0 win against Elon on Saturday at the Ring T ennis Complex.
“W e couldn’t be more excited to have Anna as a 
Gator. She’s already an accomplished and talented 
singles and doubles player and her addition to 
our team will make our practices even more 
competitive and entertaining than they have 
already been.” 
Roland Thornqvist
UF women's tennis coach
StepS from your future!
352.379.9300
3205 NW 83rd St  
thecrossingatsantafe.com
 TheCrossingAtSantaFe      @Crossing_SF      xthecrossingx
3br/3ba & 4br/4ba 
StArtING A t 
$339 per Bedroom 
ALL INCL uSIVe
LIVING!
Covered Basketball Pavilion | Game Room with WII, XBOX 360 & PlayStation 3  
Fully Equipped Fitness Center | Zumba & Y oga Fitness Classes | Pool Side Grill | Fully 
Furnished | Cable w/HBO High Speed Internet | Computer Lab with Free Printing  
Resort Sized Pool | Gated Community with Courtesy Officer36   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 /uni2219 NEW STUDENT EDITION
TORRES TELLS IT
Ahmad Fulwood has all the physical 
tools and talent in the world.
But there’s been one problem 
with Fulwood since he stepped on campus: He’s yet to break out and 
use those tools to his advantage.
He’s 6-foot-4, which makes him taller 
than most defensive backs he matches up against.
He weighs 211 pounds, which means he 
should be able to outmuscle most opposing defensive backs lining up against him, and he’s quick enough and explosive enough to run away from de-fenders.
Yet in his ﬁ  rst two years as 
a Gator, Fulwood has just 29 receptions, 326 yards and two touchdowns.
Those numbers are abysmal 
for a guy who came into Florida as a four-star recruit and was ranked as the No. 11 wide re-ceiver in the country, according to 247Sports.
And for the people who say that he hasn’t had a decent enough quarter-back to get him the ball, look at what Demarcus Robinson did last season. Robinson had 53 
catches for 810 receiving yards 
and seven touchdowns  catching passes from the same two quar-terbacks — Jeff Driskel and Tre-
on Harris — that Fulwood had.
One of Fulwood’s’ problems 
is that frankly, he hasn’t shown 
up in games. He’s played in every single 
game of his career, but he failed to record a catch in 10 of those 24 games.
I can give him a pass for the four games in 
his freshman season where he didn’t have a single catch since he was getting acclimated 
to the college game, but the six games last 
year? Not so much.
In the four games in October last year, 
Fulwood had two catches for 10 yards. He 
wasn’t that much better in November as 
he had three receptions for 66 yards in ﬁ  ve games. If you take away his 86 yard catch and 
Ahmad Fulwood running out of chances to break out at wide receiver
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIII
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 37
Saltwater
Fish & Coral
2416 SW 34th St.
352 - 505 - 0880
10%
off
$10
Men’s Haircuts
with Student ID
Serving Gainesville at 
two locations
www.randyshaircuts.com
 (352) 745-783710% off
anything over
$25
1221 W. University Ave Gainesville, FL 32601We have tapestries, pipes, posters, 
smoking accessories and more!
run in the Birmingham Bowl against 
East Carolina on Jan. 3 — which was set up by a block by offensive line-
man Rod Johnson — Fulwood had 11 
catches and 113 yards the other 11 games.
Those are not numbers for the No  
2 receiver opposite of Robinson head-ing into the season. 
But the early signs coming from 
Fall camp suggests that Fulwood is making a concerted effort to become a better all-around receiver. Head coach 
Jim McElwain though would like to 
see Fulwood use his God-given talent.  
“One thing I’d like to do is really 
see him use his size and speed, really block out a defender, really go get it at 
its highest point,” McElwain said after 
practice on Aug. 10. “The one thing Ahmad has been able to do is cross-train at a couple of spots. To me, his value becomes his ability to plug into a lot of different spots.”
For Fulwood’s sake, he’s going 
to need to be better because if he isn’t, he’s going to be looking over his shoulder and see others moving ahead of him on the depth chart.   
Freshman Antonio Callaway has 
been turning heads since he’s arrived and he could become the No. 2 guy behind Robinson if Fulwood doesn’t pan out. Brandon Powell, Latroy Pit-
tman, Valdez Showers and C.J. Wor-
ton will rotate the slot receiver posi-tion in the offense.
It’s time for Fulwood to step up 
and max out his potential. He’s too 
talented to not make enough plays to 
make an impact. 
And if he again doesn’t make the 
necessary adjustments to improve, 
people can expect the same thing 
from Fulwood this season as the last two years.
Nothing.NEW STUDENT EDITION  
/uni2219 MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   37
COLUMN,  from pg 36Fulwood has failed to 
meet lofty expectations
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Ahmad Fulwood catches a pass from quarterback Will Grier (not pictured) dur-
ing practice on Aug. 8 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Less than 3 miles from UF!Air conditionedCoinless Card SystemFree WifiAttendant present at all timesOpen 7:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M.      (last wash at 9:00 P.M.)Monthly raffles
2430 N. Main Street | 352.376.8609
facebook.com/GatorlandLaundromat
38   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 /uni2219 NEW STUDENT EDITIONBy Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Keanu Neal prides himself on his 
big hits.
At 6-foot-1 and 216 pounds, Neal 
knows he’s bigger than most defen-
sive backs, and he’s not afraid to take down anyone who comes his way with the intent of stopping them 
cold in their tracks.
But in a secondary as stacked 
with talent as UF’s, Neal also knows 
that big hits alone won’t keep him in the starting lineup.
So heading into his junior year, 
Neal said he’s focusing more on his coverage skills than any other facet of his game because at the end of 
the day, that’s a defensive back’s top 
priority.
“Everyone knows me as being a 
box safety, a hard hitter, things like that,” Neal said, “but just playing 
with the other DBs just makes me 
want to focus on going for the ball.”
Already in Fall camp, Neal has 
shown progress with his pass cover-
age. He lit up camp early with a one-
handed interception on the third day of practice.
And Neal, as well as the rest of 
Florida’s secondary, is hoping to do more of the same once the season gets underway.
The Gators finished second in the 
Southeastern Conference last season and fourth nationally with an aver-age of 6.5 passes defended per game.
Neal tied for second on UF’s ros-ter with three interceptions, one be-hind Brian Poole for the team lead, but the Bushnell, Florida, native had just four other pass breakups in his 
10 games on the field.
While he showed flashes of bril-liance at times — notably his two-
interception game in UF’s triple-overtime win against Kentucky and his fumble recovery for a touchdown 
one week later against Alabama  — 
Neal’s coverage skills were erratic at best.
Erraticness won’t cut it this year 
as Florida returns all of its starters 
from a secondary full of important 
pieces, a list that includes All-Amer-ican Vernon Hargreaves III, Fresh-man All-American Jalen Tabor and 
veterans Poole, Marcus Maye and 
Nick Washington, among others.
“Going against this defense ev-
ery day is really good because those guys really test you in everything 
they do,” McElwain said. 
“They run to the ball. There’s 
some really good players on de-
fense.”
Poole, a senior who has six inter-
ceptions to his name and is spending the bulk of camp repping at the nick-el cornerback position, said this sec-ondary has the potential to be special
“We’ve got all the pieces,” Poole 
said. “We’ve all played together. There’s a lot of chemistry involved. That really helps.”
But to Neal, the potential means 
nothing if Florida can’t make the plays.
“We’ve just got to live up to it,” 
Neal said. “We say we’re the best in 
the country. We got to do it.”NEW STUDENT EDITION  
∙ MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015   ALLIGATOR   39
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Safety Keanu Neal leaps over wide receiver Alvin Bailey for a one-handed interception during practice on 
Aug. 8 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Neal, known for his hard hits, is focusing on pass coverage during camp.
Hard-hitting safety focusing on pass coverage in camp
Neal fighting to keep his starting spot
40   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 2015 /uni2219 NEW STUDENT EDITION
