VOLUME 109 ISSUE 85 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Netﬂ  ix-binge drinking game: Scandal
Take a shot every time Olivia drinks wine on-screen, pg 8.  
Let sororities party: for the equality, for the beer
Read our editorial, pg 6. UF gymnastics focusing on team approach 
The Gators are trying to ﬁ  nd a balance among 
its gymnasts with Bridget Sloan out, pg. 15. 
Alex Murphy and 
the UF men’s basket-
ball team are looking 
to stop the bleeding 
that has come from 
its two-game losing 
streak. Read the story 
on Page 15. 
75/55
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 7CLASSIFIEDS 11CROSSWORD  13SPORTS 15Laura Cardona / Alligator
Tessa Thompson, keynote speaker for the 2015 Martin Luther King Jr. celebra-tion events, takes questions from the audience at the University Auditorium on Wednesday night. Thompson is an American actress known for her most recent role in “Selma.” 
CAMPUS
LAURA CARDONA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Actress Tessa Thompson 
took to the University Audito-
rium to speak about her ﬁ  lms 
and honor Martin Luther King 
Jr.’s life as the keynote speaker of UF’s Martin Luther King Jr. events. 
At 6:30 p.m. Wednesday, 
Thompson, known for her role as civil rights activist Diane Nash in “Selma,” addressed the crowd, sharing that her 
initial goal as an actress was to 
carry on the legacy of African-American activist women.
“My dreams were to expand 
and challenge my perception and also the audience’s percep-tion of what it means to be a woman,” Thompson said, “and more speciﬁ  cally, a woman of 
color.”
Thompson recounted the 
events that led to her suc-
cess in movies such as “Dear 
White People” and “For Col-
ored Girls” and shared her ex-periences with the audience. She also quoted one of MLK’s speeches and spoke about 
women’s roles in the civil 
rights movement. 
Following her speech, 
Thompson stepped away from 
the podium and sat on the edge 
of the stage for a Q-and-A ses-sion.
Ashley Aristide, a UF ac-
counting sophomore, said she 
enjoyed Thompson’s speech 
and found her relatable.
“She didn’t really come as 
a celebrity,” Aristide, 20, said. 
“She came more as another 
individual within the commu-nity.”‘Selma’ actress gives MLK address
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
Any UF student on campus with the Snapchat 
app could have known Devin Bostwick spent Mar-tin Luther King Jr. Day in the library.
The university recently added Snapchat’s Cam-
pus Story feature, joining other universities like Pennsylvania State and University of California.
“Only Snapchatters whose phones indicate 
they’re in and around a campus, or were there in the last 24 hours, are able to post to and view the Campus Story,” UF director of social media, Todd 
Sanders, wrote in an email, reiterating what was 
said on the app’s website.
Bostwick, 22, said he enjoyed being on the Cam-
pus Story. 
Because it was silly and spontaneous, he didn’t 
expect it to make the cut.
“Even if your video is only a mere 10 seconds, 
you’re still given the spotlight,” the UF biology se-nior said.
UF is getting snappy with selﬁ  es, embracing 
Snapchat as a major form of communication.
Andy Howard, Recreation Sports assistant di-
rector for marketing and communications, manag-es the RecSports account. He said he uses Snapchat to make a more personal connection with students, sharing tutorials and information about the facil-
ity. Each story gets about 350 views.
Student posts on daily struggles, food and 
study habits help the RecSports staff learn more 
about their needs.
“It’s helpful insight and a new way to serve stu-
dents,” Howard said.
Bostwick said he uses Snapchat on a regular 
basis.
“More than likely I will try to get back on (the 
Campus Story),” he said. “A lot of people recog-nized me, and it was fun while it lasted.”Snapchat tells 
UF campus story
 THE BAR HAD TO GO SMOKELESS TO ABIDE BY 
THE STATE CLEAN INDOOR AIR ACT.
ANSLEY PENTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
When UF sophomore Jennifer Hafner left one of Midtown’s most popular bars over the weekend, her hair and clothing 
didn’t smell like smoke.
Gator City went smoke-free at the beginning of the year 
after being audited by the Florida Department of Business & Professional Regulation’s Division of Alcoholic Beverages and Tobacco for violating the Florida Clean Indoor Air Act. The bar hired a new chef last year who increased food sales, which re-sulted in the violation.The act prohibits smoking in most enclosed businesses and 
workplaces.  To qualify as a standalone bar that can choose 
whether smoking is allowed indoors, the business must re-
ceive no more than 10 percent of its income from food, said An-drew Romero, a health policy specialist at the Alachua County Health Department.
Due to the increased food sales, Gator City’s income sta-Gator City made to go smoke-free after bump in food sales
SEE SMOKE, PAGE 4“It’s helpful insight and a new way to 
serve students.”
Andy Howard
RecSports assistant directorNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 85 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarMONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
SUNNY
66/39SUNNY
63/46CLOUDY
57/36RAIN
72/57SUNNY
75/55WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Healthy Resolutions: Get Covered 
at the Wooly
A community enrollment event will be held to assist those who are uninsured to sign up for 
health insurance. Insurance 
brokers and agents will be present to help attendees en-roll. They will also be having a health fair featuring blood pressure screenings, diabetes screenings, nutrition advice and an “Ask the Pharmacist” session. It will be at the Wooly 
downtown at 20 N. Main St. on 
Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Make sure to have social secu-rity numbers and a recent W-2 or pay stub with you. You can RSVP at getcoveredamerica.org/connector. For more infor-mation, contact the event coor-dinator David O’Malley at 352-
301-0135.
“A T. rex Named Sue” Exhibit 
Celebration
Join the Florida Museum of Natural History on Saturday for a celebration of its new fea-tured exhibit, “A T. rex Named Sue,” with free activities and 
displays, including appearanc-
es by Ronald McDonald and UF mascots Albert and Alberta! Come to the Florida Museum to experience the largest, most complete and best-preserved T. rex ever discovered. UF stu-dents with a valid Gator 1 Card receive free admission to “A T. 
rex Named Sue.” For more in-
formation, call 352-273-2061.
Hippodrome Cinema to host 
Cocktails & Classics: “Some Like It Hot”Get ready to laugh at what has been called the greatest American comedy of all time as 
the Hippodrome Cinema pres-
ents the first film of the Cocktails & Classics series, “Some Like It Hot.” The 1959 film is playing in the Hippodrome Cinema on Saturday at 8 p.m. Prior to the film, a catered cocktail recep-tion by Vellos Brickstreet Grill will take place at 7 p.m. in the 
Art Gallery. Attendees are en-visitors or provide assistance in the research and collections ar-
eas. Pre-registration is required and volunteers must be 18 or older. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/volun-teers/ or call 352-273-2056.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.couraged to dress in their 
best disguises as they are 
transported to the streets of Chicago in the 1920s. Seating is limited, and tickets are $20. Advanced reservations are recommended. To reserve a seat, please contact the Box Office at 352-375-4477. For information on Cocktails & 
Classics or for cinema-relat-
ed questions, please contact Alisha Kinman at alisha@the-hipp.org or call 352-373-5968.
Family FunDay at the Matheson 
History MuseumCelebrate more than 1,500 years of Gainesville history 
with the installation of the 
Matheson’s new permanent exhibition entitled “Exploring Our Native Heritage,” which features a 1,500-year-old Timucuan canoe. This event, held Sunday from 1 to 4 p.m., will also feature Native American dancing, educa-
tional activities, face paint-
ing and much more. Another FunDay, which will be held on Feb. 15 from 1 to 4 p.m., will give visitors the oppor-tunity to explore the contribu-tions the African-American community made to blues music. This event will feature 
tours of the Tison Tool Barn 
and the Matheson House.
Florida Museum’s Adult 
Volunteer OrientationWant to become a Florida Museum of Natural History volunteer? The first step is attending the new volunteer 
orientation Monday from 2:30 
to 4:30 p.m. to help find the best match for your interests and abilities. Volunteers serve as exhibit guides to school groups and other museum 2, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith      
   
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,  
  Marcella Tortorici, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
tus changed. To enforce the 
new policy, Gator City posted signage and is having its staff inform customers, said general manager Jon Gold.
Although some people are 
caught off-guard by the policy, Gold said that he believes it’s affected business positively, and some customers agree.
“I was very surprised be-
cause I didn’t know about this policy,” said Hafner, a 19-year-old environmental engineering 
student.  “It was a very nice 
change coming home with my hair smelling smoke-free.”
She said she goes to Gator 
City because she likes the music, but before the change, the dance floor had the most smoke. Now without it, the en-vironment is better for dancing.
Local businesses, especially 
downtown bars, are changing to fit what their demographic wants, Romero said.
“In Alachua County,” he 
said, “businesses are always taking steps to become smoke-free and protect their bottom line and the health of their em-ployees.”
Romero said other bars 
in Midtown should consider adopting smoke-free policies. 
The majority of students 
don’t smoke, he said, citing the 2010 Healthy Gators Student Survey, which found that 8.6 percent of students smoked within the 30 days prior to the survey.
“It’s great that Gator City 
is changing its policies,” he 
said, “but there’s still a couple 
of (Midtown bars) that could stand to take into account the health of their employees and the health of students, and probably protect their bottom line as well.”4, ALLIGATOR � THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator
Waffles and Resumes
Wayne Malcolm, a 19-year-old UF nursing freshman, cooks and serves waffles to students at the Career 
Resource Center open house Wednesday.
Hannah Morse / Alligator 
A Zap of Music
Marcus Farrar, left, performs with Marie Daulne, known by her stage name Zap Mama, and the rest of the Antibalas band at the Phillips Center of the Performing Arts on Wednesday night. 
 ABOUT 40 STUDENTS ATTENDED THE RECRUITMENT. 
PAISLEY PAPINEAU
Alligator Contributing Writer
Heavener Hall’s courtyard was buzzing 
with students on Wednesday’s unseason-
ably warm afternoon as they looked to gain exposure at a Fortune 500 recruiting event.
About 40 students passed through the 
newly constructed building between 1 and 3 p.m., enjoying lemonade in the 72-degree weather as they learned about summer in-ternship opportunities with FIS, a banking 
and payments technologies company.
Under the sun, recruiters played cornhole 
on sets printed with their company logos.
“We wanted to give students a nice set-
ting to relax in between classes while they 
also learn about the great summer intern-
ship opportunities FIS has to offer,” said 
Deanna Thornton, an FIS recruiter.
FIS, a Fortune 500 company, offers paid 
internships in numerous business depart-ments within the company at four Florida 
locations. It travels to colleges around Flori-
da recruiting interns, Thornton said.
Gourav Anvekar, a 25-year-old UF in-formation systems graduate student, said he had an internship with FIS last summer, 
which was extended through the Fall and 
then again this semester. He has an inter-view with them again next week, but this time he said he’s hoping to land a job.Heavener Hall, a 57,000-square-foot 
building that opened in November, is al-
ready becoming a hub for the Warrington 
College of Business Administration’s under-
graduate programs and activities.
Tannu Jiwnani, a UF information sys-
tems and operations management graduate 
student, said she already applied for an in-
ternship with FIS, but she chose to come out to network and enjoy the beautiful weather with the business school.
“I enjoyed talking again with the recruit-
ers I have met before,” Jiwnani said, “and meeting with the interns that were out there talking about their experiences.”Fortune 500 company recruits at Heavener Hall on Wednesday
“We wanted to give students a 
nice setting to relax in between 
classes while they also learn 
about the great summer internship 
opportunities FIS has to offer.”
Deanna Thornton
FIS recruiterKATHRYN VARN
Alligator Staff Writer
kvarn@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested 
a local man Tuesday who re-
portedly stole from Satchel’s Pizza twice in the span of a week, even after the restaurant 
installed security cameras.
Just after midnight on Jan. 
9, Jacoby Uriah Anderson, 22, 
of 3818 NE 12th St., broke into the soundboard area behind the restaurant, according to an arrest report. He then took items including an iPod, a light controller and a Yama-
ha mixer, together valued at 
$700. Later that day, he sold the mixer for $45 at TBGoods, a local pawn shop.
Two days after the bur-
glary, the owner of the restau-rant installed security cam-eras, said Satchel’s General Manager Wade McMullen.
Then, on Friday, Anderson 
came back for more, accord-ing to the report. This time, he broke into a back storage area and stole sheets and a towel valued at $2 from employee lockers.
Anderson’s relatives iden-
tified him in still photos from 
the security camera footage, 
according to the report.
The stolen iPod pinged 
from  two locations — Ander-son’s brother’s home and his mother’s apartment — and his mother also told police he left an iPod at her apartment the day after the first burglary, ac-
cording to the report.
Officers arrested Anderson 
on charges of burglary and 
grand theft. He was booked into the Alachua County Jail at about 8:15 p.m. and re-mained as of press time in lieu of a $65,000 bond.
McMullen said the restau-
rant staff is relieved the bur-glar was caught.
“We’re obviously fortu-
nate,” he said. “At the end of the day, it worked out.”Satchel’s thief caught
SMOKE , from page 1Customers: it’s cleanerTHURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Woman’s Best Friend
Lauren Merren, a 23-year-old from Jacksonville, enjoys the sunny weather with Sierra, her 3-year-old 
rescue pitbull, on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday. “She likes to show me how to live,” she said.
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College sena-
tors have started to announce 
which student government po-sitions they will be running for.
Before Wednesday’s Stu-
dent Senate meeting, Benjamin Myers, internal affairs director, told the Alligator he is running for Student Body president and plans to help Santa Fe be its best by ensuring the college is “running at tip-top shape in the right direction.” However, he did not announce this dur-
ing the meeting. 
Sen. Matthew Fernandez 
announced his decision to 
run for pro-tempore during Wednesday’s Senate meeting, which may have disqualified him.
Unless a judicial review is 
submitted to Chief Justice Ela-na Gold, Fernandez will still be able to run, but Sen. Con-nor Levine said he doubts any 
senators will submit one.
Senate President Jeremy 
Pierce also announced he and 
other senators will open an investigation, which will take about a week, into where finan-cial aid tuition fees are spent.
Pierce also announced that 
Tuesday, the Santa Fe Board of 
Trustees approved an amend-
ment to Rule 2.8, which pro-tects students from discrimina-tion for their sexual orientation.
The amendment’s writer, 
Sen. Wallace Mazon, waited roughly three months for the amendment to be signed.SFC senators start to 
announce candidacy
CLIMATE
 TEN OF THE HOTTEST YEARS ON 
RECORD HAVE HAPPENED SINCE 1998.
ANSLEY PENTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
The average global temperature in 2014 
was the highest it’s been since records started 
in 1880 while Florida’s overall temperature dipped down.
According to the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, global tempera-tures rose 0.12 degrees Fahrenheit from 2013 to 2014, while Florida’s fell by 0.9 F. Overall, the east coast of the U.S. didn’t have an in-crease in average temperatures, said Andrew Zimmerman, a UF associate professor in the Department of Geological Sciences.
“That’s very unfortunate because our leg-
islators are in Washington,” Zimmerman said. “And they can say … ‘Well, geez. It was so cold last winter.’”
Dominique Barker, 21, hopes universities 
integrate global warming into the curriculum for students outside of science-related fields. If students were more informed, they would care more, the UF psychology senior said.
“People who usually think global warming 
isn’t happening are people who are choosing 
not to look at the news or choosing not to look 
at those science articles that are saying that it is happening,” she said.
Temperature is only one aspect of climate, 
Zimmerman said. Even though Floridians might not feel the warmer weather associated with climate change, it is predicted that rain-fall intensity will increase, which could lead to flooding.
The earth is getting undeniably warmer, 
Zimmerman said, and he encourages students to live more sustainably by consuming less.
“There’s a carbon footprint that goes with 
everything you do,” he said.2014 hottest year on record globally; Florida below average
Rank
1 = WarmestYear Degrees (°F) 
above world average
1 2014 1.24
2 (tie) 2010 1.17
2 2005 1.17
4 1998 1.13
5 (tie) 2013 1.12
5 2003 1.12
7 2002 1.10
8 2006 1.08
9 (tie) 2009 1.06
9 2007 1.06Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Let sororities party: 
for the equality, for 
the beerIf there’s one thing Greek life cherishes more than parties, phi-
lanthropy events and Vespas, it’s tradition.
Greek houses serve as bastions of traditional social norms, 
reinforcing them through centuries-old rituals and brainwa-we mean, passing their values to members of new classes through 
the generations.
One of the major components of this is the separation of the 
sexes. Established traditions dictate that drinking and general 
mischief can only happen in the houses of fraternity men, who hold the responsibilities of planning, cleanup and — this is a big one — insurance. Sorority houses, in contrast, are not allowed to serve or even possess alcohol.
The effect is a yin-and-yang-like differentiation of the sexes 
in Greek life. Fraternities are afforded the privilege of rowdy de-
bauchery while sororities are held up as an immaculately pure, 
well-behaved counterweight. Of course, sorority women — and plenty of others — go to frat parties all the time, making the aforementioned pristine appearance illusory at best.
The roles given to fraternities and sororities reﬂ  ect the ones 
traditionally given to men and women, and it all depends on the fraternities’ control of where the booze is.
There are valid reasons for this setup, the main one being that 
organizations which regularly hold parties assume a lot of risk 
and thus take on a lot of insurance. Sororities spend about15 to 
30 percent as much as fraternities do on insurance per member. Accidents in which alcohol is a factor account for that disparity.
But in light of recent events regarding sexual assault and 
Greek life, schools have been scrambling for a solution. Many have proposed strict restrictions on their Greek organizations, which are really aimed at fraternities. In all likelihood, this solu-tion will fail. Fraternities and, more importantly, their alumni are too powerful to be contended with, and the allure of Greek 
life is too strong of an attraction to potential students. Shackling 
Greek organizations won’t work.
Another possible solution seems to be gaining slight traction 
via numerous national media outlets including The New York Times, The Atlantic and Slate: Why don’t we let sororities throw parties? Upend the system.
The way things work right now, sororities and independent 
women alike are essentially commodities, with frats competing to get them to parties. So it goes — they can’t hold parties on 
their own, and fraternities hold the distinction of throwing the 
most massive bangers around. Nobody really questions it be-cause, well, it’s tradition: much like wearing blackface to parties, thoroughly corrupting student government or shouting racist and misogynistic slurs at a black woman from your front porch.
But if sororities were allowed to throw parties, it would 
emancipate and empower the sisterhoods and even out the playing ﬁ  eld, so to speak. Parties run by women will be safer for women, which would be well worth a slight increase in insur-
ance premiums. Best of all, it would end centuries of hegemonic 
domination of the party scene by dudes who love boat shoes and croakies.
53 TOTAL VOTES30% YES
70% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgWednesday’s question: Did you watch 
the State of the Union?Today’s question: Are you concerned about rising 
global temperatures?‘American Sniper’ shouldn’t be big deal
The controversy surrounding “American Sniper” is petty and self-serving. The feud basically revolves around the back-and-forth quips of two distinct 
groups of people. The ﬁ  rst group is what I like to call the “America Rah! Rah!” group. These are the people that have the song “Free Bird” as their ringtone, and have more guns in their house than people living in it.
The second group is called the “Worldly Contrarians.” 
These people have glasses that don’t proportionally ﬁ  t their 
head, brag about the latest avant-garde play they’ve seen and 
emphasize the word “French” in French fries.
If you think these descriptions are stereotypical, wait until 
you hear what each side is arguing! The America Rah! Rah! group believes that “American Sniper” is an absolutely ac-curate portrayal of an American hero. They believe the pre-vious two wars were waged because the U.S. sought to save war-torn nations from a mad dictator and religious radicals.
The Worldly Contrarians come from an absolutist posi-
tion that the wars did more harm than good, and that any portrayal of America sweeping into foreign nations and sav-ing the day is wrong and ﬁ  ctitious.
The controversy was precipitated by tweets from, of all 
people, Seth Rogen and Michael Moore. Side note: You know a feud is facetious when it is conducted over Twitter and in-volves the director of “The Interview.”
Because Seth Rogen is an artist, I’ll quote him verbatim: 
“American Sniper kind of reminds me of the movie that’s 
showing in the third act of ‘Inglourious Basterds’.” For those 
who haven’t seen “Inglourious Basterds,” the movie-within-the-movie is a Nazi propaganda ﬁ  lm about the deadliest sniper in the German army. It’s called “Stoltz der Nation,” which means “Nation’s Pride.” Rogen weakly backtracked his tweet, saying “I actually liked American Sniper.”
Michael Moore, while observing proper grammar, tweet-
ed, “My uncle killed by sniper in WW2. We were taught snipers were cowards. Will shoot u in the back. Snipers aren’t 
heroes. And invaders r worse.” He continues, “But if you’re 
on the roof of your home defending it from invaders who’ve come 7K miles, you are not a sniper, u are brave, u are a neighbor.” Moore, like Rogen, backtracked and said that the tweets weren’t about the ﬁ  lm. The damage was done.
It seems odd to me that people 
are so eager to play “Stump the Shmuck” with two vapid individ-
uals over a medium that generates 
these trivial disputes.
I wish that the controversy was 
only contained within the Twitter-sphere. However, the America 
Rah! Rah! and the Worldly Contrarians have escalated the controversy and made it their casus belli to self-righteously declare their positions to the world.
This debate is an excuse for the people who supported the 
war to support the war and to use the brave men and women who actually participated in the battles as weapons. If you don’t like the movie, the America Rah! Rah! group says you must not support the troops who defend your freedom.         
The Worldly Contrarians counter with calling those who 
like the ﬁ  lm warmongers and take offense at the use of the word “savages” in the movie to describe some foreigners.
I can’t stress enough that both sides have valid points. But 
they are unfortunately using this controversy to proclaim 
their absurdly-absolutist beliefs and talk past each other.       
These feuding sides fail to realize that they are arguing 
about a movie. A simple, two-hour movie. The events the 
movie was based on were real, but director Clint Eastwood took great artistic liberties with the picture. To say the ﬁ  lm was completely true or completely false is completely ridicu-lous. But that does not stop warring sides from using it as the basis of their arguments.
Here’s what we can take away from the ﬁ  lm: Bradley 
Cooper did a fantastic job portraying Chris Kyle. The battle scenes were intense and suspenseful. The movie showed the horrors of post-traumatic stress disorder. And perhaps most importantly, the ﬁ  lm featured the best use of an incredibly fake-looking baby. If you think that’s a trivial comment, you should hear the controversy surrounding the ﬁ  lm.
Michael Beato is a UF economics junior. His column appears 
on Thursdays.THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgtheAvenue    
Oscar nominations full of surprises and snubs: 
Read one Avenue writer’s predictions, pg. 10. This week’s binge drinking game involves “Scandal:” 
Catch up with the show on Netﬂ  ix with a bottle of red wine, pg. 8-9.Keep up with the 
Avenue this semester by following us on Twitter  @TheAlligator.LAURA GOMEZ
Avenue Writer
Marilyn Monroe, Tony Curtis and Jack 
Lemmon will take the screen Saturday as the Hippodrome State Theatre presents “Some Like It Hot,” its ﬁ  rst Cocktails & Classics ﬁ  lm of 2015.
Cocktails & Classics, the Hippodrome’s 
twist on the typical dinner-and-a-movie ex-perience, is continuing throughout 2015 due to the sold-out success of the 2014 pilot pro-gram.
“The idea was to pay homage to classic 
ﬁ  lms,” said Alisha Kinman, 24, cinema di-rector and director of development at the Hippodrome, located at 25 SE Second Place. “We got a great response from the commu-nity.”
For $20, guests can enjoy a catered cock-
tail reception and a one-night screening of the 1959 Monroe classic at 8 p.m.
The reception will begin at 7 p.m. in the 
Art Gallery, with catering from Vellos Brick-
street Grill, along with a complimentary sig-
nature cocktail.
The theater staff will be dressed in their 
best 1920s disguises and encourage patrons to come dressed according to theme as they are transported to 1920s Chicago.
Development and Cinema Associate Al-
lison Alsup, 22, suggests that guests wear 
1920s attire, such as fringe and sparkles.
“It’s a way to make having a theater 
event more of an interactive social event,” 
Alsup said.
Kelli McAdams, 23, a marketing and 
graphic design associate at the theater, said 
guests have really enjoyed dressing accord-
ing to theme and reacted well to the ﬁ  lm se-lections.
“There’s something different about com-
ing together to watch a movie that people 
have already seen,” McAdams said. “It’s like 
gathering over a shared love of something.”
The cinema will be playing three other 
classic ﬁ  lms throughout the year, Kinman 
said. The food selection and signature cock-
tail drink are themed according to the eve-
ning’s ﬁ  lm. The theater staff encourages au-dience suggestions for the next Cocktails & Classics ﬁ  lm in May.
“The Hippodrome thrives on the concept 
that you leave with more than a ticket stub,” Kinman said. “You leave with an experi-ence.”
THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/AVENUE
Upcoming Events
Tonight
Wine tasting: Stop by ABC Fine Wine & Spirits on Newberry Road from 6 
to 8 p.m. to choose from more than 50 types of wines to try for $10, 
which also gets you a wine glass and a coupon.
Friday
Chanticleer: An all-male, 12-member, Grammy Award-winning vocal en-
semble by the name of Chanticleer is performing at Phillips Center for 
the Performing Arts at 7:30 p.m. Tickets range from $10 to $40.
Saturday
Stargazing: See the stars while enjoying some hot cocoa and sʼmores 
at Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park from 6 to 9 p.m. Tickets are $5 
per person and free for Friends of Paynes Prairie members. Pay and 
register at prairiefriends.org/event-1734334.
Sunday
Medieval times: Finish off the weekend at the 29th annual Hoggetowne 
Medieval Faire on the Alachua County Fairgrounds starting at 10 a.m. 
Stop by to feast on a kingʼs meal, check out nine stages full of enter-
tainment and take a walk through the marketplace. Tickets range from $3.50 to $17.Laura Palomino / Alligator
The Hippodrome State Theatre’s Cocktails & Classics event includes a night 
of food, cocktails and classic ﬁ  lms. The ﬁ  rst Cocktails & Classics ﬁ  lm event of 2015 is Saturday.
Cocktails and classic film event at the Hipp on Saturdaylocal
TAYLOR CASAL
Avenue Writer
While serving the 
country when he was 
in the Marines, Evan 
Strouse took photos of 
his surroundings, and the Gainesville com-munity took notice.
“I like taking pictures of 
easy, beautiful looking things to relax my mind,” he said.
The 24-year-old’s photos 
are the subject of the Art in the 
Sanctuary project hosted by 
Unity of Gainesville Church at 8801 NW 39th Ave., on display until Sunday. Strou-
se captured photographs of 
landscapes and wildlife while he was stationed in Hawaii. 
After leaving the Ma-
rines in 2013 and moving to 
Gainesville, Strouse got in 
touch with the Gainesville Fine Arts Association, which was impressed with his pho-
tos and offered to sponsor him at the 
TIOGA Winter Art 
Fair. The association guided him through the process of selling and displaying his 
photos to the public. 
Sue Henry Young, the 
volunteer coordinator of the 
Art in the Sanctuary event, saw Strouse’s art and said 
she thought the colors would 
brighten up the sanctuary. 
The Art in the Sanctuary 
project has been held at Unity 
of Gainesville Church since 
2011. Since then, more than 25 exhibits showing various types of art have been dis-
played at the church. At least 
50 people view the art exhibit each week, Young wrote in an email.“Art is important because 
it is an expression of the di-vine creative,” she said. “It allows one to view a differ-ent perspective, and perhaps, 
challenge or expand one’s 
own.” 
Strouse’s photos are full 
of bright colors and show 
different perceptions of the 
contrasting landscapes of the ocean and mountains in Ha-waii.
Strouse didn’t plan on 
selling or displaying his pho-tos when he ﬁ  rst started. He simply wanted to capture the beauty he found as a way to 
unwind. His main goal in 
showing his photos to the public is to convince people to pursue their own adven-tures. 
“I want people to want 
to go out and take photos themselves,” he said. “That’s my biggest fear, is not going 
out and seeing the world like 
that.”Former marine’s photography 
on display at GNV church exhibit 
Photos feature Hawaii THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015
DAL
MARY GRACE HENLEY
Avenue Writer mgracehenley@alligator.org
Today, on the eve of my 21st birthday, I am honored to pres-
ent the ultimate drinking game to complement your three-sea-
sons-long, binge-watching marathon of “Scandal,” available for your convenience on Netﬂ  ix. Each swig will accompany you through every incredibly uncomfortable, sexual-tension-ridden 
scene with Olivia and Fitz and every Pope family interaction that 
makes your own family seem that much more normal. Whether you’re a high-powered D.C. senator with a few skeletons in your closet or an agent in the super-secret B-613 agency, this drinking game has the potential to create a PR crisis that would even chal-lenge Olivia Pope. For extra authenticity, make your drink a tall glass of ﬁ  ne red wine. And if you ﬁ  nd yourself quickly catching up to the latest episode, don’t worry: “Scandal” will be back on ABC on Jan. 29.
Every week, the Avenue will bring you a new drinking game to play while binging on your Netﬂ  ix favorites. Check back next week for “House of Cards.”Olivia is drinking wine on-screen – Drink
The word “gladiators” is used – Drink
Olivia says, “itʼs handled” – DrinkFitz and Olivia have a secret, late-night phone call – DrinkHuck hacks into something – Drink
Thereʼs a montage of Washington, D.C., photos between scenes – Drink
Someone mentions Deﬁ  ance – Drink
Jake mentions “standing in the sun,” OR Fitz mentions Vermont – Drink
David Rosen says “white hat” – DrinkCyrus lectures someone angrily, especially James – Waterfall through 
his monologue
The sad Olivia and Fitz music plays in the background – Waterfall 
through the scene
Finish your drink if...
The presidentʼs children OR Cyrus and Jamesʼ child actually make an appearance
Huck resists the urge to kill someoneeditionSC
AN
KERI AND KELSI MATWICK
Avenue Writers
The recent opening of Lucky’s Market 
sparked a ﬂ  urry of excitement. People are 
buzzing about the amazingly low prices and exceptional, fresh, locally grown produce. Functioning as a central source of goods, 
Lucky’s provides customers a place to pur-
chase food and socialize. Small, specialized “superettes” like The Fresh Market, known for its European-style experience, and Trader Joe’s, known for its Hawaiian T-shirt-clad crew and brand-name packaging of hard-to-ﬁ  nd goods, thrive alongside larger super-markets like Publix. Ward’s Supermarket has a niche as well, as it is the only locally owned 
grocery store in Gainesville.
How did so many different grocery store 
formats come about? Let’s trace the evolution 
of the supermarket industry from the birth of the chain-store concept in the early 1900s to the rise of club stores and supercenters.
In the early 1900s, customers took daily 
trips to local groceries and food stalls. As most people arrived on foot, stores often 
delivered what was purchased and sold on 
credit. There was a wide array of specialty shops: meat was purchased from a butcher, ﬁ  sh from a ﬁ  shmonger, bread from a baker. Yet, the advent of the chain food store rivaled these small markets by providing everything conveniently under one roof, and the inde-pendent grocers either adapted or perished.
One of the ﬁ  rst super-
markets, the Great At-lantic & Paciﬁ  c Tea Co., 
introduced both scale and 
standardization to retail-ing in 1912. Comparable in impact to Henry Ford’s Model T production of 
automobiles, A&P began an economic store format where they sold branded products produced in A&P factories. Goods were delivered through a vertically integrated 
supply chain of factories, warehouses and 
trucks. Bypassing the middleman, the store was able to reduce costs. Other ﬁ  rms, such as Kroger, American Stores and Safeway, quickly adopted the new business model with the integration of both distribution and manufacturing. Continuing into the 1930s, large supermarkets challenged neighbor-hood stores with nationally branded, low-
priced packaged foods.Supermarket growth really took off after 
World War II. The increase of the automobile 
industry and home refrigeration encouraged customers to abandon daily trips to local gro-ceries, meat and vegetable stalls for weekly trips to the supermarket. The invention of the shopping cart helped customers buy more, and services were added to make the shop-ping experience more pleasurable.
Where to go next but bigger? As in, 
warehouse size. The ﬁ  rst club stores were introduced in the late 1970s and early 1980s, notably Costco and Sam’s Club in 1983 and Save-A-Lot in 1977. Club stores sell large, wholesale-size quantities, offering bargains attractive to customers and restaurant own-ers. A membership fee keeps the club stores exclusive, and a no-frills format keeps prices 
low. At the same time, natural food stores 
began cropping up, like Whole Foods and Trader Joe’s.
No matter the format of the food retail 
store, values of great food and great prices continue to be promoted. Even during this period of tight money, supermarkets, both large and small, national and local, are stress-ing quality, rather than price, and are con-
tinuing to prosper and grow.
The evolution of the supermarket industryhistory
 THE ALBUM IS NAMED AFTER HIS 
CHILDHOOD HOME IN NORTH CAROLINA.
ANTONIO CASUSO
Avenue Writer
As 2014 came to a close, J. Cole released 
his third studio album, “2014 Forest Hills 
Drive.” It’s titled after his childhood home 
in Fayetteville, North Carolina, which 
seems appropriate as much of the music deals with J. Cole going through various stages of his life. 
The songs “Wet Dreamz,” “03’ Adoles-
cence” and “A Tale of 2 Citiez” speciﬁ  cally outline J. Cole at various phases, detailing how he lost his virginity, his insecurities as an 18-year-old and his transition from a small town to a big city, respec-
tively. The album gives a great look into J. Cole as 
a person. 
“St. Tropez” is about how J. Cole was intimi-
dated by fame and fortune and how he feared that such a lifestyle would damage him. Yet he pro-
vides a conﬁ  dent demeanor in “January 28th” and “G.O.M.D.” as he commends his lyrical prowess 
and talent.
In contrast, J. Cole regrets focusing on himself 
instead of his loved ones in “Apparently.” The songs “No Role Modelz” and “Hello” are ﬁ  lled 
with passion as well. In the former, J. Cole de-
scribes how he lacked role models growing up, 
and how he really desired a true father 
ﬁ  gure. The latter is a trip down memory lane as J. Cole reminisces about his feel-
ings for a past love. 
“Intro” and “Note to Self” act as deﬁ  ni-
tive starts and ends to the album. How-
ever, the two standout songs are “Fire Squad” and “Love Yourz.” They both 
contain great beats and demonstrate the duality of the album and thus sum up the work perfectly.
J. Cole proclaims his versatility and skill as one 
of the great rappers in “Fire Squad,” while “Love Yourz” is all about the overarching message of the 
album, which is that love and happiness are what 
is truly valuable in life. While “2014 Forest Hills Drive” may have not garnered much attention in the weeks up to its release, this album serves as an 
example of J. Cole’s success on the music charts.A breakdown of J. Cole’s latest 
album: 2014 Forest Hills Drive
ALYSSA HOLCOMB
Avenue Writer
With the 87th annual Academy Awards 
a month away, one of Hollywood’s biggest 
nights is preparing to bestow one of the in-dustry’s highest honors to some of the year’s brightest stars and screenmakers. Usually, 
the nominees for the Oscars 
follow the same general pattern as ceremonies pre-ceding them, including the Golden Globes. This year’s batch, however, has taken a sharp turn from the norm and has garnered some sharp criticism in response. In analyzing the 
big categories, as well as evaluating the facts, 
this moviegoer is wondering how the ceremo-ny will ultimately go down.
Best PictureWho’s Nominated: We’ve got the historical 
pieces (“The Imitation Game,” “Selma,” “The Theory of Everything”) pitted against the re-alistic flicks (“American Sniper,” “Boyhood,” “Whiplash”), and the pair of eccentric — but 
lovable — oddballs (“Birdman,” “The Grand 
Budapest Hotel”).
Who Will Win: Despite “Budapest” taking 
home the Best Picture — Musical/Comedy Golden Globe, the 12-year film “Boyhood” will likely take this round.
Who Got Snubbed: Perhaps the eerie 
“Nightcrawler” had a shot, but other than that, these flicks seem to support the general 
consensus.
Best Actor
Who’s Nominated: It’s a battle of the Brits 
(Benedict Cumberbatch in “The Imitation Game” and Eddie Redmayne in “The Theory of Everything”) versus good ole American boys Steve Carell (“Foxcatcher”), Michael Keaton (“Birdman”) and Bradley Cooper (“American Sniper”).
Who Will Win: Despite Cooper making his 
first big appearance this awards season (Se-riously, no Globe nod? It’s a Clint Eastwood film, for crying out loud), it’s between the two Globe winners for this one: Redmayne versus Keaton. In my opinion, this is the closest cat-egory of them all.
Who Got Snubbed: Uh, did David Oyelo-
wo (“Selma”) and Jake Gyllenhaal (“Night-crawler”) get, like, abducted from the nomi-nees list in the middle of the night, or…?
Best ActressWho’s Nominated: The usual suspects of 
Felicity Jones (“The Theory of Everything”), Rosamund Pike (“Gone Girl”), Julianne Moore (“Still Alice”), Reese Witherspoon (“Wild”) and Marion Cotillard (“Two Days, One Night”) for the surprise!
Who Will Win: Moore’s got this one in the 
bag, guys. After that Globe win, it looks like 
it’s pretty much a done deal.
Who Got Snubbed: If you’ve been read-
ing/listening/overhearing people on the bus 
lately, odds are a lot of them have been say-ing something along the lines of  “Ugh, Jen-nifer Aniston was ROBBED!” (Maybe? I don’t know, but with all of this press attention it’s been getting, it has seemed that way.) Amy Adams for “Big Eyes” was missing, too — a 
bit strange considering she won the Globe 
for the role in the Musical/Comedy category equivalent.
Best Supporting ActorWho’s Nominated: Robert Duvall (“The 
Judge”), J.K. Simmons (“Whiplash”) and Mark Ruffalo (“Foxcatcher”) will face off against two E’s: Ethan Hawke (“Boyhood”) and Edward Norton (“Birdman”).
Who Will Win: Similar to Moore’s catego-
ry, Simmons’ role (and Globe win) as a tough-as-nails music instructor will almost guaran-tee him the trophy.
Who Got Snubbed: No real surprises here. 
We can now all take a collective breath in grat-itude.
Best Supporting ActressWho’s Nominated: Many Globe repeats 
including Emma Stone (“Birdman”), Keira Knightley (“The Imitation Game”), Meryl Streep (“Into The Woods”) and Patricia Ar-quette (“Boyhood”) with the lovely addition of Laura Dern (“Wild”). Seriously, Dern was wonderful in this film.
Who Will Win: Arquette’s already got a 
Globe and Richard Linklater’s (director of “Boyhood”) blessing on her side, so this cat-egory seems pretty locked up.
Who Got Snubbed: Looks like Jessica Chas-
tain (“A Most Violent Year”) isn’t getting any 
Academy love this year, but it’s cool — this 
girl ends up being part of many Oscar-at-tractive films year after year, so her time will surely come.
Other Notable Snubs“Selma” director Ava DuVernay was de-
nied the chance to make Oscar history as the first black female filmmaker to be nominated for Best Director. Both Lorde and Lana del Rey 
weren’t included in the Best Original Song cat-
egory, while “Gone Girl” author Gillian Flynn wasn’t nominated for Best Adapted Screen-play … for her own novel. And who, pray tell, is Best Animated Featured Film going to go to if one of the biggest, most beloved successes of last year, “The Lego Movie,” isn’t part of the fun?
All of these nominations — and, to some, 
lack thereof — have been under intense, criti-cal speculation since they were announced on Jan. 15. But despite all of this discord, we can all agree on one thing: the Academy certainly knows how to keep us guessing and speculat-ing — and possibly screaming in frustration.
Who do you think were the biggest snubs 
and surprises? Tweet your thoughts @Alys-saVHolcomb and tune into the Oscars on Feb. 
22 at 7 p.m. on ABC.
10, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015
AP Photo
Chris Pine, left, and Academy President Cheryl Boone Isaacs announce the Academy 
Awards nominees for best actor in a leading role at the 87th Academy Awards nomina -
tion ceremony in Beverly Hills, California. The film academy has been under fire for the lack of diversity among this year’s Oscar nominees.
Trophy Hunting: Oscar nominations full of surprises and snubs
 THE NEXT FILM AND PANEL DIS -
CUSSION IS JAN. 31 AT 1 P.M.
KRISTINA MANUS
Avenue Writer
Architecture admirers can discuss mod-
ern buildings and their impact at The Hippo-
drome State Theatre’s three-part film series 
on architecture.
“Constructive Conversations: Architec-
ture Film Series and Public Dialogue,” pre-
sented by Gainesville Modern and the UF School of Architecture, hopes to promote cultural engagement and community dia-logue, said David Forest, executive director of Gainesville Modern. The films and public forums are free to the public.
“Coast Modern,” a film featuring modern 
architecture on the west coast, was shown 
Saturday afternoon. The film discussed the 
impact modern architecture has had on hu-mans and how the design of one’s home can influence their life.
Afterward, a panel of experts answered 
questions and opened the theatre to discus-sion among the audience on topics featured in the film. The panel and the audience dis-cussed buildings in Gainesville that have the characteristics of modern architecture, such as the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity house and Heavener Hall.
“If you appreciate good design, if you live 
in it, it seeps into your psyche,” said Forrest Lyle, a  retired architect and UF professor.
The next film in the series, “People in 
Glass Houses” will be shown on Jan. 31 at 1 p.m. It will discuss architect Joseph Eichler and his ability to bring good design and ar-chitecture to the masses, Forest said.
Steve Jobs grew up in a modern home de-
signed by architect Joseph Eichler, Lyle said. Lyle believes that this impacted Jobs’ ability to design technology that influenced an en-tire generation.
The third and final film, “Citizen Archi-
tect,” is screening at 1 p.m. on Feb. 7.  This film features architect Samuel Mockbee and his impact on architecture students at Au-burn University.
Each film in the series will be followed 
by a different panel of experts to discuss the film and answer any questions the audience might have.
“Architecture is one of the most public of 
art forms, but we tend to go throughout our day without noticing it,” Forest said.Architecture film series, 
panel discussion at the Hipp
RALPHY LOPEZ
Avenue Writer
Bright colors and stylish silhou-
ettes are coming to a Target store 
near you April 19.
Target recently announced the 
company is collaborating with re-
sort style-based designer Lilly Pu-
litzer to create a collection that will include more than 250 exclusive pieces only sold in Target stores.
Stacia Andersen, senior vice president 
of apparel and accessories at Target, said the most exciting part of partnering with Lilly is the heritage of the brand.
“Here is what I love about this collec-
tion: There is more than 250 pieces in the collection, everything from apparel, to kids, to home to beauty and most items are under $30 and they start at $2,” Andersen said in a video. “There really is something in this collection for absolutely everyone.”
Emily Mosher, a UF sociology junior, 
said she absolutely loves Lilly Pulitzer and was shocked to hear about the partnership.
“Since Lilly is usually found in higher-
end malls, I didn’t believe she would be coming to Target when I first heard the news,” the 20-year-old said.Mosher said she loves the preppy style 
and bright colors Lilly offers and is excited 
about the more affordable prices.
“For me, going to Lilly to buy 
something is every few months be-cause of how expensive the cloth-
ing is there,” she said.
Jane Schoenborn, vice presi-
dent of marketing and creative 
communications at Lilly Pulitzer, said Lilly decided to partner with 
Target because the company is so stylish.
“We can’t think of anyone we would 
rather help us tell our message to the world,” Schoenborn said in a video.
Since Lilly is all about print, Schoen-
born said that the print designers at Lilly 
have been hard at work creating exclusive 
designs for the Target collection that will appeal to all women.
Brittany Larson, a 20-year-old UF com-
munication sciences and disorders junior, said she likes Lilly because of the unique patterns inspired by South Florida.
“I really like Target as a company,” 
she said. “They have really innovative de-signers working for them, and I think that collaborating with Lilly Pulitzer is a good idea.”Prints, patterns and (Lilly) 
Pulitzer coming to TargetfashionBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
PRIVATE Bdrm&Bath in NICE 4/3 HOUSE 
near UF/ Shands-PARTIALLY FURNISHED: 
Near SW 13th Street, about +1mi south of 
UF & Shands. (4) Individual leases avail-able, NOW until August 2015, 1yr or 2yr leases. BDRM #1 has its own bath....$550/mo BDRM #2 shares a bath.........$475/mo BDRM #3 shares a bath.........$400/moBDRM #4 has its own bath....$500/moMost rooms are partially or wholly fur-nished AND VERY NICE. FREE High-speed wireless internet & FREE Cox cable. QUICK BUS ROUTE#13 or BIKE to Campus. Furniture, appliances, silver-ware, cookware, high-efficiency washer & dryer ALL INCLUDED. High-efficiency ap-pliances and LED lighting.Safe, quiet & friendly neighborhood.Please CALL or TXT if you have any ques-tions, I own the house: William (305)298-6123      1-22-14-1-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/
house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, 
Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
● 2BR Home $850● 2BR Condo $850● 2BR Townhouse $750Bristol Park Realty 352-367-2669BristolParkManagement.com      1-30-15-10-2
2BR/1.5BA townhouse available in Tower Village. rent($600) Interested call 3522245011 or 3526822667.    1-30-15-9-2
House for Rent - Minutes from UF
3BR/2BA on quiet street. SE 48th St. Perfect for grad student or artist. Vauled ceilins, lots of watery light! Mary Jane Brunel, Green Tree Realty 352-281-1968    1-23-15-3-2
3BR. partially furnished. Right for man and wife on fixed income. No pets. In Old Town, FL 901-517-6202    1-28-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 female room mates needed for a 3/2 condo near UF, along bus route, near Lucky's mar-ket. all utilities, TV, Internet, Security,fully fit-ted kitchen, furnished common areas, $450 per month per person, sorry no pets. Call Owner 208-589 6261    1-22-15-3-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
SWIMMING POOL SERVICE ACCOUNTS, Lake City, FL. Asking $16,000 = 8 months grosse @ 10 hours work per week. Year-round accounts. Must sell, I have too much work. 386-590-3561    1-28-15-5-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
12, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALALL VEHICLES 20143630 N MAIN STwww.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UPPAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,& REGISTRATION FEES352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!$300 & UP!!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
1-23-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
OPUS COFFEEWe are searching for fun and active students to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website,
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.       1-23-15-12-14
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply 
in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 
SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
1-22-15-10-14
FULL/PART TIME OPENINGS
Web Designer
Accounting AssistantsLinux AdministratorsSoftware testersAdministrative AssistantsSoftware DevelopersCustomer ServicesSales ConsultantsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorsContent CoordinatorCPA/EA Product ManagerWord ProcessorWeb DeveloperMarketing CoordinatorVideo TechGardenerLine of white -
Please apply at www.gleim.com/employment
1-29-15-10-14
Experienced breakfast cook sought by Pearl Country Store & BBQ in Micanopy. Apply in person.     1-28-15-5-14
 THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 13
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, Energetic person.
Experience preferred.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Must be available weekends.
Apply in person
Spyglass 701 SW 62nd Blvd
4-22-15-68-14
SUMMER JOBS: Summer Camp Recreation 
Program: Counselors/Assistant Program Supervisors/Program Supervisors/Recreation Specialists from 6/8/15-7/31/15 for chil-dren ages 5-14 and WSI/Lifeguard. City of Plantation is (west of Ft. Lauderdale) 400 NW 73 Ave., Plantation, FL  33317 or www.plantation.org to download application   1-23-15-4-14.
Fraternity Management Assistant.Work with Accounts Payable/Receivable, Handle Invoices, Attend Weekly Fraternity Meetings, etc. Must be dependable, knowl -
edgeable, and focused. Min of 10-15 hours a week. Email Resume to info@fratmgmt.com    1-28-15-6-14Part Time Job at CITT on campus help with online courses 20 hrs/wk, $10/hr, flex schedule basic knowledge of: Windows, MS Office and Photoshop Will be assisting Faculty Please drop your resume at 2215 Turlington Hall    1-28-15-5-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal     2-5-15-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Write an essay on happiness.Win $500. No entry fee.humanhappinessfoundation.org(A Nonprofit Organization)    1-28-15-5-20
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETINGThe Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville Urbanized Area announces a public meeting to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: February 2, 2015 at 3:00 p.m.PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling (352) 955-2200, visiting our website 
at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation - 
MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Marlie Sanderson at 352.955.2200, extension 103, at least seven (7) days before the public meeting.     1-22-1-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator Writer @KBrut13
Two weekends ago, senior hurdler 
Bridgette Owens took the 60-meter hurdle 
at the UAB Blazer Invitational by the horns and shattered the event record for both the meet and UF’s program history.
Despite breaking her personal record, 
by one-tenth of a second, Owens insists that she is only getting started.
Owens said she has a set of goals that 
she writes down for herself both before and throughout the season, and her per-formance in Birmingham, Alabama, has only raised the ceiling for those goals.
“I want to at least go down on my times 
every track meet,” she said. 
Owens has shown much improvement 
in the 60 hurdles since last year, as she missed out on being named to either the All-American or All-Southeastern Confer-ence teams in the event.
Owens, who was 
named the SEC Athlete of the Week on Jan. 13, 
credits her off-season 
development to her mental adjustments.
“I’m more motivated than anything,” 
Owens said. “My whole mentality has 
changed and it makes me eager to practice. I’m not letting anything come in between what I am here for.” 
Fall training is key to any athlete in 
collegiate track and field, and although 
only one meet has passed, the Gators have 
shown that they have taken advantage of their offseason thus far.
Coach Mike Holloway uses this time to 
shore up the techniques of each of his ath-letes on the team.
During the offseason, Holloway 
worked with sprinter Najee Glass on his technique in the 400-meter sprint, in which Holloway placed great emphasis on the last quarter of the race.
“That’s where usually people break 
down and lose their form,” Glass said. “Whoever breaks down the slowest will be the one that’ll come out on top,” 
Junior sprinter and hurdler Robin 
Reynolds used her fall training period to work on her long jump, an event that she does not always participate in, but will have the chance to do so this weekend at the Rod McCrary Memorial Invitational in Lexington, Kentucky.
Reynolds said she aims to compete at 
the same level as former UF athlete Chris-
tian Taylor — an Olympic triple jumper who also competed in the long jump and 
4x400-meter relay during his time at Flor-ida.
“He’s able to do the long jump and the 
400,” Reynolds said. “I want to be able to do the long jump at the same caliber that I 
do my 400 race.”
14, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Bridgette Owens competes during the Tom Jones Memorial Invite on April 19 
at the Percy Beard Track.
Bridgette Owens plans to lower hurdles times
UF TrackJORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Maria Torres found success as a freshman.
In her first year with the UF women’s golf 
team, Torres finished second on Florida’s roster with a 74.1 stroke average while end-ing nine of her 33 rounds even or under par. 
She recorded two top-five finishes — end-
ing the Allstate Sugar Bowl Intercollegiate Championship in a tie for third by hitting a 6-under-210 and tying for fifth at the South-eastern Conference Championships with a 
3-over-219 — and landed a spot on the SEC 
All-Freshman team.
Coach Emily Glaser 
said she has seen strides in Torres’ play but does not want the now-sophomore 
to rush her progression.
“Just like with all of our 
players, it’s the process of getting there that’s more important,” Glaser said.
And so far this season, 
Torres has been successful in adjusting to the process.
In Florida’s three-tournament Fall season, 
the Puerto Rico native recorded a team-low 
73.5 stroke average.
In UF’s final tournament of the Fall — a 
ninth-place finish at The Landfall Tradition 
— Torres finished with an even-par-216 to finish tied for 11th place, UF’s highest indi-vidual finish.
And with the Spring season starting on 
Monday with the Florida Challenge, Glaser said the best is yet to come.
“Maria definitely has the talent to im-
prove,” Glaser said.Maria Torres
developing in second year
Torres
GOLFTHURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Tennis Rankings released
The UF women’s tennis team moved up to No. 2 
in the ITA rankings released on Tuesday, while the men’s team held firm at No. 13.alligatorSports podcast
Graham Hall, Richard Johnson, Jordan McPherson and Morgan Moriarty discuss UF football, basketball and baseball in this week’s podcast. Tune in at alligator.org/sports/podcast or download it on iTunes.Maria Torres is showing progress in her second year with the UF women’s golf team. Read the story on Page 14.ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Staff Writer @EricaAlyssa
Alex Murphy played through 
bloodshed on Tuesday night.
During Florida’s 79-61 loss to 
LSU, the redshirt junior forward was trampled by LSU players un-der the basket as he attempted to block a first-half shot.
The game stalled momentarily 
when Murphy noticed his right arm was bleeding and blood was dripping on the court.
The staff 
cleaned up and Murphy took an early leave to get treated in the locker room.
But while 
Murphy re-
turned and scored a season-high 10 points in just 12 minutes of action, the Gators could not stop the bleeding, as they dropped their first home conference game 
since 2012.
Florida coach Billy Donovan 
had a humbled answer when asked how does he fix the team’s 
lack of discipline displayed in its 18-point home loss to LSU on Tuesday night.
“I don’t know,” Donovan said. 
“I don’t have any answers in terms of that.”
Donovan said the team works 
on developing discipline. 
The coaching staff tries to rec-
reate situations in which its play-ers would need to display disci-pline, but he’s still not seeing the results.
“I think what happens some-
times to these guys is they get so consumed with themselves. It’s not like ‘hey I’m not scoring’ or ‘hey I’m not throwing the ball’ it’s not like that,” Donovan said. 
“They want to play well first 
and then they want the team to do well. The mentality is wrong. They’ve got to flip that to the point of doing their job.”
And after the home loss, Mur-
phy had nothing positive to say 
about his team or his individual 
performance. He and his team-Alex Murphy, UF men’s basketball look to stop the bleeding
The Gators are on a two-game losing streak
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Alex Murphy attempts a jumper during Florida’s 75-55 win against Auburn last Thursday in the 
O’Connell Center. Murphy and the Gators are on a two-game losing skid.
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 16
FOOTBALL
RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
 The Florida football program will 
soon have its crown jewel facility.
The school announced Wednes-
day that an indoor practice facility housing a 120-yard fully synthetic turf field will be built on the existing land at Sanders Practice Fields, adja-cent to the O’Connell Center.
The estimated $15 million facility 
will be financed through private gifts and capital financing according to a release.
Florida is the last of the 14 South-
eastern Conference teams to build an indoor facility, and the project is slated to be finished by September. 
However, the facility will not be 
available for the team during fall preseason practices.
“This is something we have talk-
ed about internally for some time,” Florida Athletics Director Jeremy Foley said in a statement. 
“We have always been able to 
utilize The O’Connell Center as an indoor option for the football team, but with the renovation starting this spring, it will no longer be avail-able.”
The plan is to keep intact two of 
the fields at the Sanders complex. One, a full field and the other a 70-yard field with one end zone. 
It also includes a new entrance to 
McKethan Stadium and moves the entrance of the practice fields from the east side to the south side.
The project design was created by 
Davis Architects, a firm based in Bir-mingham, Alabama. 
The firm boasts a portfolio that in-
cludes expansions to both end zones of Alabama’s Bryant-Denny Stadi-um, Auburn’s recently constructed basketball arena and the O’Connell Center’s gymnastics practice facility completed in 2013.Florida details new 
indoor practice facility
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
Gymnastics may be based on individual 
performances, but Florida coach Rhonda 
Faehn wants her team to continue to embrace 
the team concept.
With two meets 
under their belt, the 
Gators are showing 
improvements, and 
in terms of performance, they are right where 
Faehn wants them to be this early in the season. 
But as the team continues to deal with the 
absence of junior Bridget Sloan — who is now 
off crutches and in a walking boot — she wants 
to see more production from the Gators’ top performers.
Against Auburn, Faehn said the team ral-
lied together and became closer, adding that doing so without Sloan in the lineup was an important step.Still, she hopes to see her upperclassmen 
grow and lead the team when needed, includ-
ing senior Rachel Spicer.
“Last year she contributed a lot,” Faehn 
said. 
“We’re looking for her to be able to step up, 
to be able to contribute like she did last year. 
She knows that. She knows what she needs to do and she’s getting there. 
“She’s now in two events, but the one event 
we’d really love to see her get back on is floor, and that’s where she really shined last year.”Gators focusing on team 
approach early in season
UF GymnasticsWe’re looking for her to be able to 
step up, to be able to contribute like 
(Spicer) did last year. She knows that. 
She knows what she needs to do and 
she’s getting there.” 
Rhonda Faehn
UF Gymnastics coach
SEE GYMNASTICS, PAGE 16Donovan
16, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 2015
Rachel Spicer competing in more rotations with Sloan sidelined
Spicer has been a leader outside of 
competition, though, helping Florida’s 
freshmen learn to rely on their team-
mates instead of maintaining an indi-
vidualistic mindset.
“The biggest thing is just learning 
that it’s a team sport,” Spicer said, “be-
cause before they got to college it was 
all individual based, all on yourself, but now when you’re here it’s all team. You’re doing it for your team.”
Someone who has learned how to 
do it for her team is sophomore Claire Boyce, and Faehn has noticed how Boyce’s commitment has resonated with her teammates.
After a successful freshman season, 
Boyce had to overcome an elbow inju-ry and subsequent surgery during the summer. Faehn said Boyce was unable to begin training for uneven bars until 
November.
“For her to ﬁ  ght her way back, be in 
our bar lineup doing a great job, doing 
three events now and showing that lead-
ership that the athletes feel like they can 
trust her,” Faehn said. “They can count on her. That’s a great position to be in 
and I think she carries that very well.”
Boyce is competing in three rotations 
this season — bars, balance beam and 
ﬂ  oor exercise. 
Through two meets this season, the 
sophomore holds UF’s highest beam score — a 9.925 she recorded in the sea-son-opening win against Ball State.
Boyce said she believes Sloan’s injury 
has given more gymnasts an opportuni-ty to get involved, gain experience and be better prepared for the challenges the Gators will face late in the year.
And if Sloan is able to return at some 
point before season’s end, she will join a more complete team.
“Obviously we love Bridget, she’s 
like the rock of our team,” Boyce said. 
“But it’s also really exciting for the 
younger people to be able to step in, and they’ve been ready, we’re all ready. … Whenever we’re able to get into that lineup, we’re ready to prove ourselves 
and show that we can do it and I think 
it’s great, it’s a great opportunity and it shows everybody else that we have a great team, that it’s really talented.”GYMNASTICS , from page 16
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Rachel Spicer performs on the balance beam during Florida’s 197.20-195.65 win against 
Auburn on Friday in the O’Connell Center.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
JACKSONVILLE — The Jacksonville 
Jaguars have hired Greg Olson as offen-
sive coordinator.
Olson spent the past two seasons as 
Oakland’s offensive coordinator. That 
followed a one-year stint as Jackson-
ville’s assistant head coach/quarter-backs coach.
Coach Mike Mularkey, Olson and 
several other assistant were ﬁ  red after a 2-14 season.Olson replaces Jedd Fisch, who was 
ﬁ  red after two lackluster seasons in which the Jaguars were ranked at or near the bottom of the NFL in nearly every of-fensive category.
The Raiders weren’t much better un-
der Olson’s direction. Oakland ranked last in total offense this past season, ﬁ  n-ishing 32nd in rushing and 26th in pass-ing. But rookie quarterback Derek Carr threw for 3,270 yards, with 21 touch-downs and 12 interceptions. The Raiders ranked 23rd in total offense in 2013.Jacksonville Jaguars hire 
offensive coordinatorMurphy has yet to make a 
three-point basket this season
mates were noticeably upset about the new 
two-game conference losing streak that re-
placed their previously pristine winning 
streak.
“It doesn’t matter. Team game, we got 
beat by those guys, it’s as simple as that,” 
Murphy said. “I’m not thinking about my-
self.”
In the past, Murphy hasn’t been one to 
shy away from the fact that he’s been strug-
gling in shooting from the charity strip and beyond the arc.
This season, Murphy is making just 60 
percent of his free-throw attempts and has yet to sink any of his eight baskets from long range.
“Sometimes when you’re shooting a bad 
percent from the free throw line, you’re gonna stop shooting,” he said. “You’re gonna stop attacking the rim aggressively because you don’t want to go to the free throw line. That’s something that I can’t do. I’m not gonna do that.”
Murphy’s refusal to turn down his ag-
gression paid off on Tuesday, as he made all four of his free-throw attempts, but nei-ther he nor Donovan were in any position 
to celebrate the success.
“They played harder than us and they 
executed better than we did,” Murphy said 
Tuesday night. 
“They beat us in all facets of the game 
tonight.”HOOPS , from page 15FOOTBALL