By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
With less than two-and-a-half minutes 
left to play on Saturday and No. 10 Florida 
trailing Vanderbilt 7-6, UF kicker Austin Har-
din trots out to the ﬁ  eld.
The redshirt junior has seen his share of growing pains throughout his UF career, 
making just 48 percent of his kicks in a 
Gators uniform.
But with the game on the line, UF coach 
Jim McElwain sends his erratic kicker out for 
a 43-yard ﬁ  eld goal attempt.
Hardin waves his right arm in the air 
and gets into position while a Homecoming crowd of 90,061 holds its breath.Hardin has missed four straight kicks, his 
last successful attempt coming against East Carolina on Sept. 12.
“Sometimes he probably lets some other 
things clutter and distractions get in there that mean absolutely nothing to doing your job,” McElwain said.
But knowing what’s at stake, Hardin 
kicks.
The ball ﬂ  ips through the air for what 
seems like an eternity.
When it lands between the uprights, 
the crowd erupts, and the Gators have the chance to celebrate something bigger than a 9-7 victory.
Hardin, the Atlanta native, just guaran-
teed the Gators a trip to his hometown for 
the Southeastern Conference Championship 
Game. 
The performance was nowhere near what 
Florida (8-1, 6-1 SEC) has produced through-
out the season, but it was enough for the 
Gators to reach the conference title game for 
the ﬁ  rst time since 2009.
“We just fought through adversity and We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 55 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015
UF soccer win the SEC Tournament
The Gators defeated T exas A&M Sunday to take 
the crown, pg. 13
New Department of Neurology 
chairperson values patient care
He was appointed Wednesday, pg. 5
Adventures of father-son rodeo clowns
The duo reﬂ  ects on their experiences, pg. 8Homecoming Weekend
Check out the photo story, pg. 9
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
VANDERBILT 7 FLORIDA 9
Atlanta native seals the dealKicker steps up, locks UF into SEC Championship
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
Timothy Bird-Lopez died in his 
mother’s arms.
David Kirby gasps for breath.
Gus Dreher struggles to walk.Separated by age and distance, 
the three are bound by a ﬂ  ag: a ﬂ  ag carried through sludge and ice, held triumphantly on Mount Everest last month.
The ﬂ  ag bears the names of 750 
boys and girls bound by a faulty X chromosome and Duchenne mus-cular dystrophy, a terminal, degen-erative disorder.
The Hope-Memory Flag is a 
8-foot by 6-foot piece of polyester with names printed in black. As it climbed 17,598 feet up Mount Ever-est, it raised $50,000 for a cure.
Above the Nepalese horizon, 
at Everest Base Camp, the names were spoken toward the wind.
The three boys might never 
climb, but their ﬂ  ag did.
      
It starts with the legs.Early on, Timothy struggled to 
climb stairs. His parents thought he was being lazy.
But when he was 6, Timothy 
was diagnosed with Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
“I just remember being so angry, 
all the time, so angry,” said Dee Bird, Timothy’s mother.
After the diagnosis, Timothy’s 
father left the family and started a new one. He didn’t attend his son’s funeral.
“Because his father lives in a 
perfect world,” said Bird, who quit her job as a medical billings worker 
to care for her son. “And Timothy 
was no longer perfect.”
It continues with the spine.At 13, Timothy had surgery to 
straighten his back so he could breathe better.
Despite his disability, he was ac-
cepted to UF in 2007 to pursue a de-gree in animal sciences. In his three 
semesters at the university, he av-
eraged a 3.75 grade point average, Bird said.
“I swear he was a genius,” she 
said.
But things didn’t get better.Timothy would often use a feed-
ing tube, but freshman year, it be-came a necessity.
“Suddenly he couldn’t eat any-
more,” Bird said. “He would start choking and hack on his food.”
It often ends with heart failure.On Monday, Feb. 24, 2014, Tim-
othy had two appointments with doctors.
While traveling in a medical 
bus, the battery in his respirator failed, and he stopped breathing.
He was in a coma for one day.When Timothy woke, his condi-
tion worsened. His heart stopped.CPR kept him alive, but it broke 
a rib. The broken rib punctured a lung. And on March 1, Timothy took his last breath in his mother’s arms.
“That night before he died, you 
could see it in his eyes,’” Bird said. “He didn’t want to die. He was a ﬁ  ghter, and he never wanted to give up.”
It’s been almost two years, and 
she’s kept the critical parts of Timo-thy’s room with her, even after she moved to a new house.
She sleeps on his bed and uses 
his computer.And she still speaks to him.“I tell him constantly I love 
him,” she said as tears rolled down her cheeks.
In her bedroom, Timothy is still 
there. His pictures ﬁ  ll her shelves and surround a blue urn with his ashes. A single Coke bottle with Timothy’s name printed on the la-bel stands nearby.
“I do whatever I can in his mem-
ory,” she said.
When she heard about the ﬂ  ag 
on Facebook, she sent Timothy’s name in.
“The fact that he went to Mount 
Everest — he would have really, re-ally loved that,” Bird said.
      
David Kirby never knew Timo-
thy.
But, like the other boys whose 
names were printed on the ﬂ  ag, he says they shared something.
“Because we all share some-
thing,” he said as he struggled for breath.
It’s the struggle for breath that 
kept David from pursuing a degree in graphic design from Palm Beach State College. It was hard for him to catch his breath as he went from class to class in a wheelchair.
After moving forward a few feet, 
he needs to stop to breathe.
At 21 years old, David weighs 70 
pounds and is roughly the size of an average 12-year-old boy.
“You watch your child go from 
relatively healthy child to struggling to sit down and stand up,” said his mother, Nadine Kirby. “Then you 
watch your child fully disintegrate 
to a wheelchair.” On Everest, their voices were heard
Courtesy to the Alligator
Standing on Mount Everest, the group of climbers for Everest to End Duchenne, led by T onya Dreher, 
post the Hope-Memory Flag with the names of 750 boys and girls who had or have Duchenne muscular dystrophy, a terminal, degenerative disorder without a cure.
SEE EVEREST,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators meets Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, Room 1031, 970 Natural Area 
Drive on the UF campus. 
Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For details about Talking Gators, go to talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page. “The mis-sion of Toastmasters is to pro-vide a supportive and positive 
learning experience in which 
members are empowered to de-velop communication and lead-ership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth.”
Starry Night
Observe the night sky and explore 
the world beyond! See a portable 
planetarium show and view the universe in 3-D on Friday from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. during “Starry Night” at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Come for a free, fun-filled night of astronomical proportions. Visitors may gaze at binary stars and nebulas through 
professional-quality telescopes 
with astronomy experts.  Food vendors will be available.
Keep Alachua County Beautiful 
seeks volunteersThe nonprofit Keep Alachua County Beautiful is looking for about two dozen volunteers to 
paint the trim of the Archer City 
Hall at noon on Friday. Please email all inquiries to riley.kacb@gmail.com.
RUB Entertainment Presents 
Triwizard Tournament
Reitz Union Board Entertainment 
will host our annual Harry Potter event Tuesday starting at 7:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Activities will include entering your name in the Goblet of Fire to battle drag-ons, saving your loved one from the Black Lake and navigating 
the life-size maze to compete 
for the Triwizard Cup. You can also create your own crafts and butterbeer will also be served. Check out #TriwizardTrivia for new Harry Potter trivia every Tuesday. Tweet us with the cor-rect answer to win prizes. Visit us @UF_RUB on Twitter for 
more information.
High school science research 
competition
Applications for the 53rd Annual Junior Science, Engineering and Humanities Symposium (JSEHS) high school science research competition are due today  by 5 
p.m. Students in 11th and 12th 
grade who have conducted origi-nal STEM research are encour-aged to apply. Best-in-State win-ners receive college scholarship awards to the institution of their choice and a sponsored trip to the national competition for the opportunity to win up to $16,000 
in additional scholarship money. 
Faculty and STEM research staff interested in outreach are encour-aged to sign up to host a lab tour or serve as a paper reviewer or competition judge. For more in-formation, contact the UF Center for Precollegiate Education and Training at jsehs@cpet.ufl.edu, cpet.ufl.edu or 352-392-2310.
University Gallery
“Class of (circa) ‘65,” is on view in the University Gallery at UF until Dec. 4 and is the final exhi-bition of the year in celebration of the gallery’s 50th anniversary. The exhibition showcases two esteemed UF art alumni, Robert 
Fichter and Mernet Larsen, and 
features photographs and paint-ings, including photographs from the early ‘60s of Fichter and Larsen taken by Jerry Uelsmann. A public reception will be held Friday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 55
HIGH  79° LOW  66°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Compound created to combat 
resistant bacteria
UF researchers found a way to break 
down deadly bacterial masses.
When bacteria attach to human body 
tissue, they become highly resistant to 
common antibiotics. A team of UF re-
searchers developed compounds, called 
halogenated phenazines, designed to break down growing lumps of bacteria attached to human tissue.
Robert Huigens, a professor in UF’s 
College of Pharmacy and lead investiga-tor of the research, said these mass-ﬁ  ght-ing compounds are the ﬁ  rst of their kind and can save lives.
He said there are 17 million of these 
bacterial-mass infections a year.
“These are life-threatening infections, 
and they are a huge reason people are dying in the United States,” Huigens said.  
The team ﬁ  nalized the research in Au-
gust and published the article this term.
Huigens said his interest in bacterial 
masses began when he was a graduate 
student, and he believes the research is 
far from over.
“We are continuing to develop this 
and are going to submit another paper hopefully before Christmas,” he said.  
Huigens said his research could great-
ly beneﬁ  t people with joint replacements or catheter therapies, as those are com-mon places for these bacterial masses to form.
He said he is eager to share the dis-
covery of the compounds.
“It’s great to be able to reach out and 
send this message and let people know that we are working on this important problem,” he said.
- Rachel HowardLink found between obesity and 
hospitalization
A UF research team found that people 
who are obese are more likely to be hos-
pitalized.
The team discovered that those with a 
body mass index of 30 or greater, which is the threshold for obesity, were more likely to go to UF Health Shands’ Emergency De-
partment, said Matthew Ryan, the study’s 
lead researcher.
Ryan works for UF Health and has been 
studying the prevalence of obesity in emer-gency medicine since 2008. He said his 
idea for the study came from observing pa-
tients in the Emergency Department.
According to Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention, about one-third of 
U.S. adults are obese.  
When Ryan conducted his research, he 
said he found about 24 percent of people 
in Alachua County were obese. Of the pa-tients coming to the Emergency Depart-
ment, about 39 percent were obese.
“We were signiﬁ  cantly higher in preva-
lence of obesity in the UFED,” Ryan said.
He said the team surveyed patients in 
the Emergency Department and asked if 
they thought their weight was negatively impacting their health.
Most people who were obese didn’t 
think their weight was affecting their health, which Ryan said he found surpris-
ing.
“If you have a problem and you don’t 
recognize that’s a problem, you can never 
ﬁ  x the problem,” he said.
- Briana White
$2 million grant will fund UF 
strawberry research
Recently, the UF Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences received a federal 
grant of about $2 million to research new ways to grow organic strawberries.
The grant is from the Organic Agricul-
ture Research and Extension Initiative.
The research could make farming 
strawberries cheaper and more environ-mentally friendly, said Marilyn Swisher, a UF sustainable agriculture professor.
The research will focus on cover crops, 
which are plants grown in the same areas as the strawberries during the off season to improve the soil, Swisher said. Strawber-
ries are grown in Florida from November 
to May.
The goal is to ﬁ  nd how changes in 
cover crops could affect the plants, both in terms of pest presence and exposure to diseases, Swisher said.
It isn’t known if the insects and diseas-
es present on strawberry crops are harmful or beneﬁ  cial, she said.
“We need to ﬁ  gure all that out so it’s 
not risky for the farmers,” Swisher said.
Swisher said although the research 
will be based on organic strawberries, the conclusions may be useful to non-organic farmers. Better growing methods could help reduce the environmental impact of farming. It could also lower costs, she said.
UF biology freshman Taylor Clark said 
she loves strawberries and often buys Strawberry Acai Starbucks Refreshers.  
She said she thinks strawberries are too 
expensive right now.
“I think that would make me buy them 
more often if they’re cheaper,” the 18-year-old said.
- Emily MavrakisDrink created to stop diarrhea, 
help with dehydration
UF researchers found a new way to 
prevent the deadly effects of diarrhea.
Sam Cheng, a professor of pediatrics 
in the UF College of Medicine who also 
works at UF Health, recently created a  drink to stop diarrhea and replace bodi-ly ﬂ  uids. 
The drink stimulates an anti-diar-
rheal protein in the gut that regulates bodily ﬂ  uids. The drink is different from Pedialyte, a drink found in drugstores, Cheng said. Pedialyte replaces ﬂ  uid loss 
resulting from diarrhea, but it doesn’t 
stop it.
Cheng and his research team initi-
ated the project a year ago.
The team studied the nutrients found 
in the drink of animals. They found that the nutrients did what they should: They regulated diarrhea, he said.
The drink has not been commercial-
ized yet, and it is still in the research stage, he said.
“We tried a few patients in our clinic 
and it worked beautifully,” Cheng said.
Once it becomes commercialized, the 
drink will help developing countries by lowering diarrhea-related death rates, he said. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more 
than 2,000 children die from diarrhea 
every day.
“The beauty is the solution can be 
used to stop any form of diarrhea,” 
Cheng said.
- Christena CarolloUnable to walk, there are metal 
rods that support David’s spine and 
breathing machines that surround his bed.
But neither David nor his moth-
er has lost hope.
As a breathing machine quietly 
whirs through the night, David still dreams of becoming a NASCAR 
driver. His continued dreams moti-
vate his mother, even as she helps 
him shower, dress and cough.
“You look at his face, and that 
motivates you to keep going, to 
keep pushing, to keep doing better and be a better person,” she said.
From their home in Lake Worth, 
Kirby and her son followed the climbers’ ascent up Mount Everest.
“I thought it was cool that they 
were gonna climb all the way up there,” David said.
Recently, Kirby was invited to 
help carry the flag when the group climbs another mountain this sum-mer.
For her son, she’s thinking 
about it.
But she doesn’t lose sight of re-
ality: not knowing where David will be in a year.
•   •   •
Before the flag, there was Gus.He was Tonya Dreher’s third 
child, blond with a wild imagina-tion.
But, like Timothy once did, Gus 
struggled to climb steps.
At 4, Gus was diagnosed with 
Duchenne.
Every day, he needs to be fully 
stretched out to prevent his mus-cles from tightening.
He takes medication for the fi-
brosis in his heart, caused by the deterioration of his cardiac mus-
cles. At night, he wears braces on 
his legs.
As the disorder slowly robs him 
of his ability to walk, the 10-year-old will begin to depend on a wheelchair.
Four months after Gus’ initial 
diagnosis, his parents created Hope for Gus, a foundation meant to bring attention to their son’s disor-der.
“Some people don’t even know 
what it is,” his mother said. “We’re just trying to get it out there, and get people to see it as something 
they could feel good about fund-
ing.”
The first fundraiser Dreher held 
for her son was a yard sale that raised $1,000.
Dreher continued her activism 
from behind a computer screen by creating websites and fundraisers devoted to bringing attention to the 
need for a cure.
About a year ago, she decided to 
up the stakes.
A former colleague, Chris Balch, 
hiked last year to raise money for 
Gus; he raised $25,000 after hik-ing more than 300 miles. This gave Dreher an idea.
“If he could do that,” she said, 
“what could I do?”
She looked to the world’s largest 
mountain: Mount Everest.
And they began to make the 
flag.
•   •   •
Before she flew to Nepal, Dreher 
chose a team of hikers.
Originally, Everest to End Duch-
enne was intended to be a group of parents, each with a child who 
suffered from Duchenne. But many 
parents couldn’t afford to leave 
their kids, so instead it became a 
group of seven: Dreher, Balch, three 
friends who know Gus and two rel-atives of children with Duchenne.
A British filmmaker and two 
Nepalese guides accompanied the climbers as they ascended Everest.
With his mom on the other end 
of the world, Gus stayed in New Hampshire with his father and two siblings.
He drew pictures of his mother 
on a mountain.As Dreher and the team battled 
through 15-degree temperatures and altitude sickness, her son was never far from her.
“I had his picture on my back-
pack the whole way,” she said.
His name was also one of sev-
eral she chanted silently in her mind — the names she would read aloud when she reached Everest Base Camp.
In a plastic bag, she held the 
flag, on which the names of chil-dren from 14 countries were repre-sented.
After nine days of climbing, the 
ground under her feet leveled out.
On Oct. 19, the hikers had 
reached their destination but were advised not to stay long.
For the next hour, the seven hik-
ers read about a hundred names each — Timothy, David and Gus among the heap. Clutching a mi-crophone, they read the names of those on the flag and the names that were requested as families learned of their trek.
As the air became thinner, they 
struggled to breathe. For the mo-ment, they could feel what their loved ones had felt.
For the moment, Timothy, Da-
vid and Gus climbed Everest.
“We feel like our boys climb 
mountains every day,” Dreher said. “The fact that they could never 
climb a mountain… We do it for 
them.”
•   •   •
Dee Bird sees her son every-
where.
She sees him in her dogs, the 
butterflies in her garden and the music he once enjoyed.
All of it breaks her heart.On the day Timothy’s name was 
read on Everest, she saw him in the sparrow that flew through her kitchen window.
She spoke with the bird and 
knew Timothy was there.
“The fact that they made it to 
Mount Everest means they are nev-
er forgotten,” she said.
Even as she continues to grieve 
for her son, Bird said she’s doing 
what she can to make sure her son, and others, are never forgotten.
She plans to build a memory 
wall for those who have died from Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
“This disease has no boundar-
ies,” she said.
Nearly 300 miles away, Kirby 
feels blessed to still be with her son.
While Bird plans to build a wall, 
Kirby built a foundation: Light it Up Green for Muscular Dystrophy.
Through her organization, Kirby 
said she successfully petitioned 46 states in the U.S. to recognize Au-
gust as National Muscular Dystro-
phy Month. Step by step, she says, she will keep fighting for her son and the countless others in his posi-tion, even if David might not ben-efit from it.
“If there was a cure, would we 
be able to reverse all the damage that has been done?” she asked.
But the ultimate goal is still find-
ing a cure.
“If you don’t keep going, then 
they can’t keep going,” she said.
This is why Dreher keeps going, 
and is already looking toward the next climb.
The Everest climb raised $50,000 
from a GoFundMe and from spon-sors, which she and her husband plan to use to fund research for a cure. However, the sum is slim compared to at least $50,000 al-ready spent to take care of Gus, the hundreds of thousands of dol-lars needed to pay for medical fees 
and the nurses David requires, and 
the million dollars in fees Timothy needed.
A cure would not only save the 
families’ money, but it would save their sons’ lives.
“That’s the thing we hope and 
pray for when we go to bed at night and when we wake up in the morn-
ing,” Dreher said.
She wonders to herself every 
day if she’s doing enough for her 
kid.
Most of the time, her answer is 
a stern no. But after the climb, the answer has become yes.  
The flag, for now, is with anoth-
er climber, whose son has Duch-
enne. It will be a part of a school 
presentation in the U.S. and a mountain climb in Scotland before it returns to Dreher.
For now, the mothers will wage 
their separate battles as they grieve and care for their sons. But they will soon reconnect this summer when the flag scales another moun-
tain in the U.S. and they work to 
raise more money for a cure.
It’s a future they want to leave 
for their sons and the generations to follow.
“He’ll be able to say, ‘I know my 
parents did everything they were able to do,’” Dreher said.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015
EVEREST,  from pg 1The Everest climb raised $50,000 from a GoFundMe and sponsors
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Dee Bird holds a photo album of her son Timothy Bird-Lopez, who passed away on March 1 due to 
complications of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. His dog, Lizzy, who sits in the crook of Bird’s arm, is among the many reminders of Timothy in her bedroom, including his computer, bed and pictures.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
On a shelf in Dee Bird’s bedroom, pictures, candles and a Coke bottle labeled “Timothy” surround Tim-othy Bird-Lopez’s urn to memorialize his life.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
Michael Okun will lead UF’s Department 
of Neurology.
Okun, a UF professor of neurology, neu-
rosurgery and psychiatry, was appointed 
chair of UF’s Department of Neurology on Wednesday. As chair, he will make $378,000 per year.
Okun co-directs the UF Center for Move-ment Disorders and Neu-rorestoration, which he helped establish in 2002. 
The Center cares for 
patients with neurological disorders, such as Parkin-son’s disease and Tourette syndrome.
He also established one 
of the world’s best brain simulation pro-grams at UF, wrote Michael Good, the dean of UF’s College of Medicine, in an email.Okun applied for the department chair 
position in March.
“Okun presented a very compelling and 
forward-looking vision for the UF depart-
ment of neurology,” Good said.
Okun said he hopes he can develop UF’s 
Department of Neurology to create the “per-
fect patient experience.”  
“Our philosophy is that the patient is the 
Sun, and we will as a healthcare team orbit around the patient,” Okun said.
Ashley Lee, a UF health science senior with an occupational therapy concentration, said she was excited to see Dr. Okun named chair because of his work with Parkinson’s disease patients.
Her 74-year-old grandfather was diag-
nosed with Parkinson’s disease three months ago, Lee said.
After learning about Okun, Lee, 23, said 
she and her mom are looking into bringing 
her grandfather to be helped by Okun.
“I called my mother and said, ‘We need to 
get him over to him,’” she said. New Department of Neurology chairperson values patient care
Okun
SHE WAS 84.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TALLAHASSEE — A former 
aide says Rhea Chiles, the wid-
ow of former Florida Gov. Law-ton Chiles, has died.
The Chiles family put out a 
statement stating Rhea Chiles died Sunday afternoon. It says the 84-year-old Chiles died in her home on Anna Maria Island, 
surrounded by family members.
Then-Gov. Chiles died unex-
pectedly in 1998 of heart disease 
a few weeks before his second term as governor was to end. Chiles served three terms in the U.S. Senate before he became 
governor.
Rhea Chiles accompanied 
Lawton Chiles during his entire 
40-year political career.
She pushed for the creation 
of the Florida House in Wash-
ington, D.C., which serves as 
a “state embassy” for Florid-ians. Rhea Chiles also founded the Lawton Chiles Foundation, 
which provides support and 
public awareness for children’s 
programs.  Former Florida First 
Lady Rhea Chiles dies 
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
University Police arrested a UF 
student during Saturday’s football 
game after police said he had a 
pill in his pocket.
At about 1:15 p.m. Saturday, 
Marino Guzman, 21, walked into 
Gate 15 of Ben Hill Griffin Stadi-
um, according to a police report.
An officer noticed a large bulge 
in both of Guzman’s front pock-
ets, at which point he asked Guz-man to empty them.Guzman pulled out a hand-
kerchief wrapped around a single Methylphenidate pill, which is 
commonly used 
to treat ADHD, 
according to the 
report.
Police arrest-
ed Guzman for 
possession of a 
controlled sub-stance without a 
prescription and took him to the 
Alachua County Jail, where he 
was released Sunday afternoon on his own recognizance.Guzman is listed as a student 
in the UF directory. He could not be reached for comment as of press time.
Guzman was one of two peo-
ple UPD arrested during the foot-
ball game. UPD also ejected 15 
people, including eight students.
Six ejections were the result 
of intoxication, followed by four 
for ticket switching, two for dis-
orderly conduct, one for alcohol possession, one for not having a ticket and one for sitting in the wrong section. 
The two arrests were listed as 
possession of false identification and possession of a controlled substance.15 ejected, 2 arrested at UF game
Guzman
By Lexie Bajalia
Alligator Contributing Writer
College students came to the Homecoming 
festival for the food.
Before Friday’s Homecoming parade, about 
1,500 people snacked on free ice pops, Greek 
yogurt and orange-and-blue popcorn at the first 
annual Homecoming Festival.  
Businesses, like The Hyppo Gourmet Ice 
Pops, Chobani and Earth Fare, were required to donate $500 in cash or free merchandise 
to set up a booth at the festival, said Santiago Ramirez, Gator Growl’s associate producer of 
communications. There were 16 booths at the 
festival.
While children played carnival-like games, 
college students went booth-to-booth on the hunt for freebies on the Plaza of the Americas.
Holding bags of popcorn and cups of yogurt, 
UF freshmen Krista Grajo and Othelia Jumapio said they were drawn to the event for the free food. The festival took place during the Sun-Trust Gator Gallop, an annual 5K Homecoming run that ended on the Plaza this year. Deanna 
Henriksen has been running in the Gator Gallop 
for 15 years. This Homecoming, she brought her kids to the festival before the run.
“We figured it would be a great way to kind 
of burn some energy with the kids, and, you know, get them pumped up for the whole day and the whole Homecoming weekend,” she said.Parents took their children to get their faces 
painted with gators and butterflies by members of Dance Marathon at UF, who were accept-
ing donations to their spring Children’s Miracle 
Network fundraiser. The group does not know how much they raised, DM Public Relations Overall Director Armani Abreu said. 
“By participating in events like this where 
the community comes forth, we get to show them what big things the university is doing,” the 21-year-old said. UF adds new Homecoming tradition, students enjoy festival
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
FREEWHEEL PROJECT
LEFT:  Bikes 4 Vets mechanic Peter Klavuhn, 84, enjoys the weather with Peanut, his 10-month-old Chihuahua and poodle mix, at The Freewheel Project’s grand opening 
celebration. Bikes 4 Vets is a local program created to help give veterans transportation around Gainesville. RIGHT: Gator Fire Equipment Company project estimator Micah 
Hedgecock (left), 30, hugs statistician Arthur Rosales, 29, during The Freewheel Project’s “Epically Rad Opening Extravaganza Celebration” on Saturday. The event marked 
the grand opening of The Freewheel Project with a bicycle repair workshop and a bike-in movie, where cyclists could watch “Rad” and enjoy a cold beer.
CAMPUS
A UF student was arrestedThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnOutrage culture 
works both ways
In recent years, outrage culture has been largely perceived as 
a strictly liberal pastime. There was the time #CancelColbert was a trending hashtag due to an “offensive” out-of-context tweet from “The Colbert Report,” or racist accusations were levied at Lorde regarding opulence — thereby criticizing the 
entire genre of hip-hop, #duh — in her song, “Royals.”
However, with the unveiling of Starbucks’ new winter-time 
cups, Christian evangelical crazies have come out of the wood-work to show their liberal contemporaries how it’s done.
The controversy generated news over the weekend, when 
Christian evangelist Joshua Feuerstein took to Facebook, the most esteemed of platforms for free speech, and posted a video complaining about Starbucks’ “War on Christmas.” This year, Starbucks’ winter-time cups opted for more minimalist white, 
red and green designs, eschewing the accoutrements that have 
adorned the cups in past years, such as reindeers and snow-ﬂ  akes.
In the minds of Feuerstein and his ilk, Starbucks’ decision 
to embrace a minimalist aesthetic is tantamount to hating baby Jesus and the Three Wise Men themselves. Social media have been littered with commitments to never buy from Starbucks ever again, as well as charges that Starbucks has kowtowed to political correctness (PC) culture and removed any overt refer-
ences to Christianity from their products.
Ignoring the charges of anti-Christianity for a moment, let’s 
acknowledge that minimalism IS the popular aesthetic choice in 
today’s world. Have any of those complaining not looked at an Apple ad campaign or product in the last 10 years?
In the interest of not poking the ever-festering sore that is 
evangelical discontent, we’re not going to spend the remain-der of this column rebuking their “anti-Christian” accusations (since they’re obviously ludicrous).
Back in September, we wrote at length about the awfulness 
and idiocy of liberal moral outrage, or as some call it, PC cul-ture. Just last Wednesday, we shared a similar sentiment re-garding reactionary rhetoric. But PC culture is only one aspect of the larger problem of “outrage” culture.
Outrage culture reduces complicated issues and persons to 
basic and loud soundbites meant to be easily digested, made into a meme and propagated. In the process, actual debate and discussion, no matter how inept — such as the possibility of 
Starbucks possessing anti-Christian intent in its removal of all 
iconography from its cups — is drowned out in favor of anger and conveying an immediacy of message. Perhaps Facebook and Twitter ought to increase their character limits so people no longer have an excuse for brief, rage-ﬁ  lled missives.
This isn’t a political or bi-partisan problem; it is a cultural 
and social one that has tarnished far more than just our cul-tural dialogue. Outrage culture has conditioned us to feel more strongly about everything. Your roommate didn’t do the dishes? 
Catastrophe. Your professor sprang a pop quiz on you that low-
ered your class average? Depression and dejection for days.
The solution, reluctant as many are to offer one, is pretty 
simple: Chill out. Many of our editorials as of late have been charged with messages of humanism and empathy. While this may reek of repetition and/or laziness to some, perhaps — and we’re just spitting out ideas here — it’s because so many of the issues plaguing America today stem from the fact that many of us are lacking in these qualities. It’s easier to call someone 
“anti-Christian,”  “white-cis-male-oppressive monster” or other 
easy-to-rattle-off names when we deny them their basic hu-manity. No, we’re not an extreme left publication, nor are we apologists for systematic racism or oppression; we simply try to acknowledge people and, by extension, life are both nuanced.
Don’t twist the meaning of sexual liberation 
To adapt Maxim Biller: Nothing is as boring as sexual liberation, at least for women.
What’s sexual liberation? Women’s 
rights to Planned Parenthood, abortion and contraception are under threat. “Smart” 
and “progressive” men’s rights to women aren’t.
It’s a poli-sci student lecturing me that it’s il-
logical not to sleep with him. It’s him, before he cheats with me, saying it’s illogical to moralize; it’s him, after he cheats with me, saying, “I would never date you.”
It’s a Chavista banker (um?) in a musty Miami apartment 
who does a few pushups before he rolls off me and texts my best friend. It’s a tattered couch where he sips a Malta and 
asks me to set him up with her and rolls his eyes: “What, do 
you want a boyfriend or something?”
It’s the Students for a Democratic Society organizer who 
got kicked out for breaking up with her hierarchically supe-rior boyfriend. Per a former SDS member: “The more radical they are, the less open they are to women with opinions that contradict theirs, and all of the leadership is men.”
It’s playing umpteenth side chick for a grande école Ph.D. 
student who says love is a lie and I’m being irrational.
It’s an exchange with a summa Ivy history grad: “Do you 
want to kiss me?” “I have a boyfriend.” “That’s a stupid an-swer.”
It’s a summa ﬁ  lm studies “friend” tossing Butterﬁ  ngers on 
my lawn and then asking me, when I wasn’t down, “Why am I even here?”
It’s people I’ve barely met asking me my bra size.It’s a friend’s boyfriend messaging girls on OKCupid — 
“But just for sex, so it’s OK.”
It’s a girlfriend telling me she wants to be a born-again vir-
gin. It’s her Tinder non-boyfriend refusing to use a condom. It’s a girl describing sucking off a guy from OKCupid who came, zipped his ﬂ  y and left.
It’s a chunky, gay roommate collapsing in tears over his 
sexual humiliations before running back to the bar.
The message is: Want a boyfriend? Well, f--- you; it’s not 
a buyer’s market.This isn’t sexual liberation. It’s asking us to 
f--- like men and shut up. It is enforcement of a new sexual code and in the girlfriend/slam-piece divide, it recreates the Madonna/whore complex it pretends is prehistory.
A woman recounted to Libération: “A man, a 
future leader of ’68, asked me one day: ‘You’re for sexual liberation? Yes. Well, we’re sleeping together.’ Men used this ‘liberation’ to pressure women. To guilt us.” I suppose it’s Victorian to imagine some relationship between sex and love. 
Girls are warm, damp holes to ejaculate into. Men are proto-biont bang-sticks. “Mutual pleasure” is type on the Trojans box. We’re walking resumes and genitals.
Hedonism pretends to ﬁ  ll the post-Enlightenment vac-
uum. But in acting like sexual reticence = prudishness = the whole damn problem, we elide a whole history of sexual power. Women are raised to seek male approval. So even if we don’t want to screw a guy, we still want him to want to screw us. The market is rigged: What does “want” even mean? Progressive men want a “yes,” but they don’t care where it comes from.
A friend once told me Western men treated women like 
toilets: “They do their business, and ﬂ  ush.” That’s why she wore the hijab. If not for God, why deny men anything?
In Houellebecq’s “Whatever,” a priest argues “we need 
adventure and eroticism because we need to hear ourselves repeat that life is marvelous and exciting; and it’s abundantly clear that we rather doubt this.”
But sex qua-iterative penetration, 69, etc. is boring. Read 
Ferrante, Munro and Mann. There, sex is alternately disap-pointing, troubling, consuming and life-afﬁ  rming. Our boiler-
plate sex-talk strips life to the marrow bones.
I don’t want to cum with strangers. I don’t want my fem-
inism-atheism-nihilism-materialism to translate into that im-
personal, inevitable “Well, I guess it’s time to undress.” 
How mercenary, how instrumentalizing, how capitalist is 
that?
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish senior. 
Her column appears on Mondays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Back in the early days of the 
2014 football season, the Green Bay Packers were 
1-2. Fans were upset. Head 
management started up-
dating their resumes. Things were not looking good. After receiving a 
loss at the hands of the Detroit Li-
ons — yes, you can understand the Pack’s frustration — quarterback Aaron Rodgers told the cheesehead faithful to “R-E-L-A-X.” Rodgers calmly told the media 
and Green Bay nation everything will be all 
right. And he was right. The team ﬁ  nished 12-4, captured ﬁ  rst place in the NFC North and went to the NFC Championship. 
Now, segueing back into an arena I’m more 
comfortable with, I’m here to give a Rodgers-esque reassurance to all of my friends, fellow campaign volunteers and Republican nation at large. Jeb Bush is ﬁ  ne. Things will be OK. 
Relax.       
The accounts of Jeb’s demise have been 
greatly exaggerated. Yes, my preferred can-
didate has had a rocky few months. Yes, his 
debate performances have not been extremely 
exciting; The Wall Street Journal columnist Peggy Noonan said his debate demeanor re-minds her of a “pleasant, bespectacled man who’s actually thinking about dinner.” And, 
yes, some on his staff and some of his donors 
are bristling under adversity. But rest assured, Jeb’s campaign is still viable and he is still the conservative choice for president. Again, ev-
eryone: Relax.
To start my argument off, I won’t address 
the fact that his campaign has raised the most 
super-PAC money of all presidential candi-dates. Surely when attack-ad season rolls 
around, Jeb’s PACs will successfully defend 
the governor’s record and attack his oppo-nents relentlessly.
However, Jeb’s tone and temperament — 
the two areas for which he’s been most criti-cized — will make his presidential hopes a reality. Just look at his campaign foes. Donald Trump is a rhetorical pyromaniac. Everything he says is incendiary. Ben Carson, now ﬁ  rst in 
many polls, is wildly defending the fact that 
he tried to hit his mom over the head with a hammer, had a violent childhood and once had a West Point scholarship, contrary to the 
media’s fact-checking from childhood friends. Yeah, this is nuts.
And Marco Rubio, Sen. MIA, is 
using his speaking time to deﬂ  ect his distaste for the Senate and his 
failure to show up for votes and committee meetings. You know, all of the things an effective leader 
should be deﬂ  ecting.   
Here’s where Jeb comes in. 
While good candidates match the 
mood of the time — Trump and Ted Cruz 
match the shared frustration of the country — 
great leaders project a hopeful and achievable 
image of the future. Jeb, again with Rodgers-esque composure, marries a strong future vision with a proven record. During his ﬁ  rst 
speech as a presidential candidate, he said, 
“We will take command of our future once again in this country. We will lift our sights again, make opportunity common again, get events in the world moving our way again. 
We will take Washington — the static capital 
of this dynamic country — out of the busi-ness of causing problems. We will get back on the side of free enterprise and free people. 
I know we can ﬁ  x this. Because I’ve done it.” 
Not many candidates can say that message and back it up.
And Jeb IS the conservative choice. Saying 
he is a moderate squish is inaccurate. Jeb‘s 
proposed income tax rate is 28 percent and 
the corporate rate is 20 percent — both lower than W’s proposals. He wants to make the in-surance market more competitive with fewer 
government regulations. Jeb promotes school 
choice, especially for lower-income Ameri-cans. He wants a more skill-based immigra-tion system. And he is unabashedly pro-life. Jeb has proven himself time and time again 
on his conservative record, despite critics say-
ing the contrary.
Jeb is a proven conservative with a stel-
lar record any Republican would dream of 
possessing. His message is optimistic and his 
love of this country is palpable. Yes, he is not ﬂ  ashy and can be a bit introverted. But he is the only candidate who can calmly and faith-fully execute the duties of president of the U.S.
To all the naysayers, I can only say once 
more: Relax. Jeb’s got this.
Michael Beato is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Mondays.Relax, Jeb Bush is going to be presidentColumn
Most politicians go to great lengths to culti-vate a carefully con-
structed image. Don-
ald Trump has made 
himself the candidate who says what others are thinking but are 
afraid to say. Jeb Bush has made 
it a point to distance himself from his brother’s policies.
In contrast to every other candidate ex-
cept Trump, Ben Carson’s appeal hinges 
on being an outsider — that is, not a poli-
tician. Speciﬁ  cally, it hinges on his inspir-ing biography, which was adapted into the movie “Gifted Hands: The Ben Carson 
Story,” starring Cuba Gooding Jr. 
Carson’s campaign portrays him as the 
one genuine candidate who speaks his 
mind, which has helped him to overcome previous criticism over his lack of expe-rience. Some of his claims have no basis 
in fact, but it’s seen as a genuine mistake 
or misinterpretation, rather than outright deception. This makes him one of the few candidates to successfully pull this off. If 
Bush, Sen. Marco Rubio or even Hillary 
Clinton touted such misinformation as fact, they would never live it down.
However, it would seem as though Ben 
Carson’s lies have been exposed. Even 
though he never said outright he applied 
and was awarded a scholarship to West Point, he implied an offer was on the ta-ble, and if he tried to apply, the ofﬁ  cers 
he met with could have helped him get 
in. From this point on, everything he says will be heavily scrutinized, but it’s too early to tell what the lasting effects of this controversy will be. There’s something 
that makes one politician able to weather 
such a storm, while it could be potentially career-ruining for another.
When there’s even a hint of 
secrecy around Clinton, there’s 
a scandal, just as there was with 
her emails. Though everything she did was seemingly above board, it was probably not a 
good idea for her to host her 
emails on her own server using her own email address, espe-
cially when the line between the U.S. De-partment of State and Clinton Foundation 
business could be easily blurred. People 
are less likely to believe Clinton made an honest mistake because they see her as calculating.
Joe Biden is another good example 
of this phenomenon. Despite instances where Biden has been called out on a lie, such as when he touted his high law-school ranking, he has managed to bounce 
back. When it came out that Biden had 
leaked the anecdote about his dying son telling him to run for president, it wasn’t heavily covered by the media. This was a 
way for Biden to test the waters and see 
if his candidacy was viable, but the media did not hone in on that aspect of the story. An incident that would come off as cold and calculating from Clinton left Biden 
fresh as a rose.
While Clinton, Bush, Rubio, Bernie 
Sanders and most of the other candidates 
have political experience, Carson is run-
ning on his story, a bootstraps narrative 
many Republicans like to hear. His lies, or exaggerations, have the potential to dis-credit him completely. Carson and Trump have the similar appeal of not being career 
politicians, which means it would be easy 
for Carson's supporters to ﬂ  ock to Trump.
While Republicans continue to scream 
about liberal media bias, especially be-
cause they were unhappy with the mod-
erators at the previous debate, the media has been unfair on both sides of American politics. Carson is just as heavily scru-tinized as Clinton. It’s unfair to ask the 
media to be less harsh on either political 
party.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mon-
days.Ben Carson, partisan politics, scrutinyColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.org
“It's unfair to ask the  
media to be less harsh 
on either political 
party.”8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
The crowds can’t stop screaming 
for him.
Standing in the middle of an are-
na with thousands of people looking 
straight at him, Brinson James the 
Entertainer wipes a tear.
“To stand there and see everyone 
looking at you and paying attention 
to you is fulfilling within itself,” he said.
Brinson Harris, 22, is used to 
crowds. They cheer as he dances and tells jokes and they gasp as he dis-tracts a nearly 1-ton bull from turning 
on its rider.
When he started performing at 
Ocala rodeos, it was a different story.
Then, he was “Boogerhead,” the 
2-year-old who tagged along with 
“Hollywood Harris,” the famed ro-deo clown.
The two performed skits in which 
Hollywood Harris took the lead. Brin-
son was a cute kid in a costume who 
would brandish a whip or get pulled out of a suitcase.
Yet now, Brinson can hold his 
own. And together, he and Holly-wood Harris perform in international tours and dazzle crowds in Canada, Australia and the U.S.
It’s a meaningful experience for 
both clowns, but especially for Hol-lywood Harris, who, outside of the arena, is 55-year-old Clifton Harris, Brinson’s father.
“Any act with him is my favor-
ite,” Clifton said. “Anything we can do together are my favorites.”
•   •   •
For Clifton, it began on a cattle 
farm.
He grew up working rodeos and 
riding broncos before he found his calling as a clown.
“I always wanted to try being a 
clown,” Clifton said. “When some-one let me try it, I fell in love with it and then they screwed up and paid 
me.”
This was the world he introduced 
Brinson to: a stage much smaller 
than the one they perform on now.
“I just knew the crowd would ap-
preciate a cute little kid putting on a comedy skit,” Clifton said. “It’s real easy to be cute rather than funny, so I dressed him up and put him in a 
couple different acts with me.”
And Brinson was a natural.
When Clifton accidentally booked 
himself for two shows in one week-end, he sent 12-year-old Brinson to fill his place and perform his first solo show.
“I was so terrified,” Brinson said. 
“I was used to being in front of peo-
ple, but there is a whole different as-
pect of entertaining when you have to talk into the microphone.”
The two continued to perform 
together until Brinson was 17, when Clifton got hurt.
As Clifton helped a rider to the 
fence, the bull hooked Clifton’s bag-gy rodeo-clown pants and thrashed 
him around for almost a minute.
Among shoulder and back inju-
ries, Clifton had surgery on his foot 
the next day. Five years later, he still struggles with aches and numbness.
Clifton took a year off from per-
forming, so Brinson began perform-ing solo.
“That’s when I went off to Canada 
by myself and they saw that I could work my own show,” Brinson said. “That’s when my career started.”
Brinson said rodeo organizers 
gave him a chance, and he went on to perform 14 more shows that sea-son. Within the year, he traveled from coast to coast and then toured Australia in the summer. Last week, 
two days after his 22nd birthday, 
Brinson traveled to Australia for the third time. Rodeos are a bigger deal in Australia, and when he’s there, he is treated like a celebrity.
“I’m the only one who sounds 
like this and says ‘y’all’ over there, so I kind of stick out like a sore thumb,” he said.
In Australia, Brinson attends au-
tograph sessions. Sometimes the se-curity team can have trouble with enthusiastic fans, which he said is a wonderful problem to have.
“I’m never worried about giving 
an autograph because I love to,” he said. “I mean, gaw-lee!”
•   •   •
When Brinson went solo, his fa-
ther had to learn to perform alone, too.
Clifton began studying again, 
searching for new jokes and working 
on his comedic performance.
“I had been relying on him for a 
long time because cute is better than 
funny,” he said. “I had to go back to being real funny. I got another gear, but I got run over (by broncos) a bunch, too.”
Clifton’s and Brinson’s perfor-
mance styles are drastically different. 
Both rely heavily on audience partici-
pation, but that might be the single similarity between the two entertain-ers. Clifton uses props and illusions to interact with his audience. He is known for ad-libs, whip-cracking and two character acts: Houdini’s Illusions and Quick Draw McGraw, in which he outdraws an automatic 
gun-fighting robot.
He also picks viewers out of the 
stands and brings them into the are-
na to participate in skits.
Brinson focuses on dancing to 
engage his audience, with short acts and rope tricks to round out his routine. He usually ends his act by swinging a 65-foot loop around a pickup truck, which is something he taught himself just by watching pro-fessional trick ropers.
From Michael Jackson tributes to 
hip-hop skits, Brinson said the type of music doesn’t matter as long as everyone is clapping their hands and having fun.
“My favorite thing is making 
people laugh,” he said. “In school, I would get in trouble all the time for it, but in the rodeo I decided they’re 
going to pay me for it.”
When he started performing on 
his own, he tried to change his name 
from Boogerhead to Boogie to reflect his dancing and to remain recogniz-able. The Professional Bull Riders didn’t consider it a good enough name. It implied a slapstick rodeo clown performance, like those who 
trip and fall, bang their heads on 
the fence and then get back up to do something else ridiculous, Brinson said.
“I’m more of a New Age clown, 
entertaining and dancing a lot,” he said. “Dancing is my shtick.”
Brinson has ditched his old ro-
deo-clown attire for colorful dress 
pants and golf jerseys with his name 
stitched onto the back. But he still wears the same clown make-up from when he was two years old: a “muz-zle,” or a bit of white makeup around his mouth and chin, freckles and a dot of red on his nose. His dad didn’t want any around his eyes at such a young age.
Clifton wears more traditional 
make up. His whole face, including his mustache, is covered in white, with black around his eyes and a faux beard.
He says his son’s fame as a more 
modern clown has grown to the point where Brinson makes more money than he does.
Both were reluctant to disclose 
amounts, but Clifton mentioned when he started performing more than 30 years ago, some entertainers would make $500 per night. Brinson said the coveted role of Flint Rasmus-sen, a famous rodeo clown who per-forms as the Professional Bull Rider’s exclusive entertainer on the televised Built Ford Tough Series, has a four-year, $1 million contract.
“It’s a high-paying job if you 
know what you’re doing,” Brinson said. “These are our full-time jobs. We do it every weekend.”
“It sure beats working,” Clifton 
said.
•   •   •
Although Brinson and his father 
are no longer a package deal, the two still perform at least one show per year together.
Clifton still performs smaller 
shows. He also works as an Uber driver around UF.
For Brinson, entertaining is the 
future.
He’s considered going to college 
before, and says if he did, he would study something that could further his career.
“They don’t really teach rodeo 
and clowning at college, but they do teach business and advertising,” he said.
But college doesn’t exactly hold 
his interest.
Brinson is more focused on per-
forming in all 50 states and China. And he wants to follow in his father’s footsteps and make it to the Profes-
sional Bull Riding finals.
Ultimately, he wants to partici-
pate in the Built Ford Tough Series, 
which he says is the top of the top.
As he watches his son ascend to 
rodeo-clown fame, Clifton says the unique routines with Brinson are memories he’ll always cherish.
“The father-son thing has been a 
joy in my world,” Clifton said. “To make people laugh with your kid and make up funny stuff — gaw-lee, what a fun thing to do.”Adventures of father-son rodeo clowns
Courtesy to the Alligator
Rodeo clowns Hollywood Harris and his son Boogerhead perform a skit in which Harris pulled Booger-
head out of a suitcase. Now 22, Boogerhead goes by the name Brinson James the Entertainer. He has been performing with his dad since he was two years old.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Brinson James the Entertainer twirls a trick rope around his father, Hollywood Harris. Brinson taught himself how to trick rope when he was 16.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF students and guests ﬁ  ll Flavet Field as they wait for Gator Growl 
to begin Friday evening. They braved Florida’s not-quite-fall humid-ity to cheer on the university’s sports teams and watch musical acts from about 6:30 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF President Kent Fuchs sways onstage with the UF football team during Gator Growl on Friday night. The annual homecoming rally featured UF sports teams and video cameos from public ﬁ  gures includ-ing Dr. Oz, comedian Brian Regan, Gov. Rick Scott, and U.S. Sens. Marco Rubio and Bill Nelson.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Lead singer and keyboardist Sydney Sierota performs with indie-pop band Echosmith at Gator Growl. Their set came between coun-try singer Jana Kramer’s and rapper T.I. ’s.
HOMECOMING WEEKEND 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Damon Penny, a 41-year-old assembly worker, supports his 4-year-old son, Kyon, on his back while they watch the Homecom-ing Parade on Friday. Damon said the pair came from Williston, Florida, to watch the parade be-cause it’s special. “I look forward 
to it each year, ” he said.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
The Hare Krishna ﬂ  oat scooted down West 
University Avenue among live musical performances, marching bands and dance groups on Friday during the Homecoming Parade. Krishna devotees pulled it down the street with two long ropes.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
2 EXCELLENT HOMES3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-WW73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-13-15-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
The MIND Study is looking for men and 
women ages 20-30 and 60+. We will com-pare both age groups regarding brain func-tion and how it may contribute to our physi-cal strength, energy and well being. Only 3 visits to our clinic. Compensation provided. Free Parking. Call 352-273-5919    11-10-15-10-14W
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with 
reliable transportation. If interested call 
(352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14
Part-Time Assistant Teacher at Millhopper 
Montessori School (M-F 8:30 AM - 1:00 PM). Ages 2-4 program. Starting November 30, 2015. Email mmschool@millhopper.com   11-17-15-9-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
ACROSS
1 Four Corners
collectible
10 Edit, as a
soundtrack
15 “Be right there”
16 Dior style17 Window-
adjusting tool
18 Sheep or goat19 Two after love?20 Aria from
“Carmen”
22 Some drills23 Champagne
toast
24 English lit
pseudonym
25 Father of
Phobos
26 Bounty maker,
briefly
27 R&B’s __ II 
Men
28 Murky milieus29 __ cracker31 Facing
dauntlessly
35 Like sparkling
wine
36 Real estate
pioneer with aLong Islandtown named forhim
37 Clan member38 Ruler of 
Asgard
39 American
Leaguer since2013
41 Ray45 1975 ABC debut,
for short
46 Like music to
one’s ears?
47 Skater Harding48 Best ever50 Evil51 Splatter catcher52 will.i.am, for one54 Baggage
carousel feeder
55 Eatery serving
47-Downs
56 State with a red,
white and blueflag
57 Strips at a partyDOWN
1 Pisan possessive
2 It’s dropped on
purpose
3 Cinema __
4 Ovid work5 Dumps6 Just7 Prepare for a
grilling
8 Jazz followers9 Memorable ’70s
Ford
10 Capital SSW of
Tangier
11 Tar Heel State
campus
12 Attack from
above
13 1964 World’s Fair
giant tire Ferriswheel creator
14 Enchant21 Cause of worry23 Blabbed26 Compound with
five carbon
atoms
27 Crab house
accessory
28 In good shape
30 Fruit served with
a cracker?31 Online clip
32 Colorful fall tree
33 Anne Morrow
Lindbergh, butnot Charles
34 Café quaff
35 “__ in the Dark”:
1988 Neill/Streep
film
37 Noah’s
predecessor
40 Hybrid apparel41 Rear end
42 Complete
43 Bos’n’s response44 Large rays46 Exeunt __: all go
out
47 55-Across
dessert
49 __ cracker
50 Assign value to
53 Four on
Augusta’s fifth
By Ed Sessa©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/07/1511/07/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, November 7, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab and follow the directions.    11-13-15-12-14
Hiring Dine-In Supervisors @ New Dominos on Archer Rd. Host & serve dine-in customers @ 3581 SW Archer Rd Location. PT & FT Flexible hrs. All you need is a smile. Apply @ gatordominos.com    11-19-15-10-14
Gator Moving & Storage Co – HIRINGPart-time – flexibility around class schedulesMust be age 21 or over with valid Florida Drive License and clean recordApply at 1950 NE 27th Ave / 352-374-4791    11-13-15-5-14
Eighth grader in need of tutoring in all sub-jects.Mon-Fri 3-6pm.Email with references and rates paula@trematerracustomhomes.com or call Mon-Fri 352 333-1945    11-16-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
CPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 11/16-11/19 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then workshops” to register.    11-16-5-20
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
http://www.alligator.org/class
Check it out!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 RidesTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligwvator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Event Notices 23 Rides 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Mary Wise and 
Florida's volleyball team fell to Auburn in a five-set thriller on Sunday. It was the first loss to Auburn in Wise's UF career. Read the story on pg. 16. IT'S THE 11TH TITLE IN 
PROGRAM HISTORY. 
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
The 2015 Southeastern Con-
ference schedule ended the way 
it started: a 2-1 result between 
Texas A&M and Florida.
Only this time, with the SEC 
Tournament on the line, the Gators came out victorious.
On Sunday in Orange Beach, 
Alabama, No. 5 UF fought from 
behind to defeat the Aggies, tak-
ing its 11th SEC tournament ti-
tle in the 21-year history of the Becky Burleigh-led program. 
The Aggies were the ﬁ  rst to 
strike, doing so in the 23rd min-
ute of the game. 
UF junior midﬁ  elder Meggie 
Dougherty Howard mishandled 
a ball in the Gators’ back third, 
leading to a TAMU three-on-two 
opportunity.
The Aggies’ Mikaela Harvey 
stole the ball from Dougherty 
Howard, passing the ball up to 
Emily Bates who then dished the ball across the box to Haley Pounds, who delivered a high 
shot in the net from the right 
side, capitalizing on the initial Florida error. 
Despite the mishap, the 
Gators  (17-3-1, 8-2-1 SEC) were able to gather their bearings in quick fashion.
Just six minutes later, off 
a Christen Westphal corner, 
Brooke Sharp scored off a touch 
from junior forward Savannah Jordan, striking the ball into the upper-left corner at the near post. 
It was just the ﬁ  rst shot of 
the game for Florida, but it was 
enough to even up the score and 
give the Gators the necessary momentum. 
In the 43rd minute, Dougherty 
Howard drew a foul at the top of the box, leading to a free kick. 
On the ensuing set piece, 
Westphal curled a free kick over the TAMU (15-6-1, 6-4-1 SEC) 
wall and into the left side of the 
net for the eventual conference tournament-clinching goal.
It was her second goal off a 
free kick in as many games, hav-ing also done so Friday against Auburn. 
Burleigh credited both the 
game-tying and decisive goals to 
a trait that wasn’t with the team 
in the regular season matchup against the Aggies: execution.
“When it came right down to 
it,” Burleigh said, “it was really good execution on both the free kick and the corner.”
Going into halftime, the 
Gators had just three shots — 
two for goals — compared to the 
Aggies’ seven shots, including four shots on target. 
A ﬁ  rst half that was sloppy at 
times for the UF defense was fol-lowed by a much-improved sec-ond half in the defending third. 
The second half saw the Gator 
defense give up just three shots 
and only one shot on target.
The main stat of the second 
half was the amount of goals 
Florida allowed: zero. 
As the game progressed, the 
Minutes after an ugly 9-7 victory over 
Vanderbilt, a win that clinched a berth in the Southeastern Confer-ence title game for Florida, coach Jim McElwain uttered a phrase 
that summed up his thoughts on the day — and the season.
“Let’s call it what it is: We are on a cham-
pionship run,” McElwain said. “Sometimes there are games like this. And champions ﬁ  gure out ways to win.”
He’s right — sort of.I’m a ﬁ  rm believer that one game doesn’t 
deﬁ  ne a team, and Saturday certainly doesn’t deﬁ  ne a Gators season ﬁ  lled with performances much better than the one that took place in The Swamp on Saturday.
As we see weekly in college 
football, things change quickly.
A team can go from looking 
like a championship contender one game to looking like a team that would be lucky to get bowl eligible in the next, or vice versa.
It happens even to the best teams. But 
even if it isn’t pretty, those top teams ﬁ  nd a way to get the job done.All you need to do is be the 
best team in the stadium on that particular day in order to survive and advance.
In that regard, history proves 
McElwain’s point that you’ll need to win some close games when you don’t play your best.
In four of the last six seasons, 
the SEC champion has had at least two one-possession wins 
over teams that ﬁ  nished the year unranked.
The only exceptions in that span were 
the Alabama teams that won back-to-back national titles in 2011 and 2012, teams that won their games by 26 and 27 points per game, respectively.
The highest total came in 2013, when 
Auburn won a whopping four such games 
by one score, including a few miracles like 
the “Prayer in Jordan-Hare” when the Tigers took down Georgia on a Hail Mary with a ﬂ  uke tipped pass.
So there is certainly precedent for title-
contending teams winning tight games like Florida did against Vanderbilt.
The only problem with that theory is that 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators detail SEC Championship game student tickets
Florida has an allotment of approximately 1,500 student tickets available 
for the Southeastern Conference Championship game on Dec. 5 at 4 p.m. in Atlanta. Student tickets are only available to current student season ticket holders. Sales will begin on Thursday at 6 p.m. Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF senior defender Christen Westphal dribbles the ball during 
Florida's 4-0 win over Arkansas on Oct. 25.
Florida wins SEC Tournament
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
The words began synchronous-
ly, as if each player had the same 
message delivered to them just 
moments before and as if each 
player was still hesitant to heap praise on a win that didn’t feel much like a real victory.
“If we turn the ball over that 
much against a good team,” Dorian Finney-Smith said, “we’ll be down 20 points.”
“The game shouldn’t have been 
that close,” Devin Robinson said. 
“We’ve got to do a lot better,” 
Kasey Hill said.
The common sentiment after 
Florida’s 89-42 win over Division II Palm Beach Atlantic on Thurs-day was not of elation.
It was of dissatisfaction.
“We’ve got a ways to go,” 
coach Mike White said.
It was a 47-point exhibition vic-
tory that showcased Florida’s up-side — athletic wings, a potential-
ly elite shot blocker, and young, UF focused 
on limiting turnovers
JUST SOME HACK
Jim McElwain's assertion about championship teams is only partially correct
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack24SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15 SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15"If we turn the ball over that 
much against a good team, 
we'll be down 20 points. ”
Dorian Finney-Smith
UF men's basketball forwardMEN'S BASKETBALL14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015
took every play as a new down,” 
quarterback Treon Harris said. 
“Played fast, played smart with 
the ball, and we needed a game like that to get guys woke up. It lets you know that anything can happen.”
Florida had opportunities to win 
throughout the game, but Vander-bilt (3-6, 1-4 SEC) regularly found ways to stop UF’s offense cold.
The Commodores held the 
Gators to a season-low 12 first downs and allowed Florida to con-vert just three third downs.
UF’s offense started seven of 
its 13 drives inside Vanderbilt ter-
ritory, but Harris and company 
looked anemic for the duration of the game.
The Gators coughed the ball up 
a season-high four times, the team 
losing three fumbles.
While Florida’s offense strug-
gled against a top-25 defense, the 
Gators’ defense and special teams 
came in and salvaged the victory.
Punter Johnny Townsend 
pinned Vanderbilt inside its 20-
yard line three times as the Com-modores started every drive inside 
their 30, forcing their lackluster of-
fense to travel great distances for 
the opportunity to put points on the board.
The defensive line lived in the 
Commodores’ backfield, forcing five sacks and 11 tackles for loss.
Outside of Vanderbilt’s lone 
touchdown of the game — a 74-yard dash by Gainesville native Ralph Webb following Harris’ first interception of the season — UF held Vanderbilt to just 1.7 yards per play.
“We have to make every stop 
we can,” linebacker Jarrad Davis said. 
“We have to make sure their of-
fense doesn’t move the ball on us because those small yards count. We’re not going to give up the big play, but the small ones count even more. That’s just how precious it is right now.”
Florida has three games left be-
fore the SEC Championship to cor-rect its offensive woes — its SEC finale on Saturday against South Carolina and home games versus Florida Atlantic and Florida State.
The Gators are already locked 
into their first goal, but they still have more to accomplish.
“We have to get better every 
day,” Harris said. “But everybody keeps saying Atlanta. We’re trying to get past Atlanta. We’re trying to get to the national championship game.”
McElwain saw that passion 
from them against Vanderbilt.
“We can talk and talk and talk 
about all the mistakes, all the what-ifs and all the whys,” McEl-wain said, “but at the end of the day there was a group of guys in that locker room that gave every-thing they had for this university and the state of Florida to win that ballgame.”FOOTBALL,  from pg 1Gators hope SEC Championship berth is just the beginning
All photos by Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF football players celebrate after defeating Vanderbilt to clinch the Southeastern Conference Eastern Division.
UF’s Austin Hardin kicks the game-winning field goal during the fourth quarter. Heading into Saturday’s game, Hardin had missed four consecutive field-goal attempts.
MIDDLE:
UF coach Jim McElwain is handed the game-ball following the game. McElwain became just the third coach in SEC history to reach the championship game in his first season.
ABOVE:
Wide receiver Demarcus Robinson (left) eludes defenders after catching a pass. Robinson led the Gators with nine catches and 106 receiving yards.it’s Vanderbilt.
If you’re a championship-cali-
ber team, you don’t have a game 
like Florida had against a team that bad. Put simply, the Commo-
dores stink.
They currently sit at 3-6, with 
their only wins coming against 
Austin Peay, Middle Tennessee State and Missouri. Those teams are a combined 8-20.
If Vanderbilt has any hope of 
making a bowl game, it will need to win its final three games against 
Kentucky, Texas A&M and at Ten-
nessee.
Put even more simply, it's not 
going to happen. The Commo-dores will be lucky to get one win over that stretch.
And that’s significant as it re-
lates to comparing close wins of previous SEC champions.
In the past six seasons, no 
SEC champion has played poorly enough to be involved in a one-possession win against a team that didn’t participate in a bowl game.
In all but three cases, the even-
tual champion’s opponent had seven wins or more. 
Oddly enough, the three cases 
that involved a six-win opponent came against an SEC-winning Au-burn team, either in 2010 or 2013.
So, while McElwain is correct 
that games like Saturday happen to great teams, they normally hap-pen against much more formida-ble opponents.
Alabama, the team that Florida 
would face in the conference title game if the season were to end to-day, has one one-possession win over an unranked team this sea-son — a five-point victory over Tennessee.
With Saturday’s victory, Flori-
da already has four such wins.
One would think that favors 
the Crimson Tide.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
talented perimeter players. 
It also showcased where the Gators have 
room to improve, just as White predicted 
during the preseason.
While beginning to install Florida’s up-
tempo offense in October, White said most 
of the team’s growth must occur during the 
season rather than in the days leading up 
to it.
It must occur as the Gators fine-tune 
their fast-paced offense against outside competition, not against each other in the safe confines of a practice facility. 
“This team has that scary word,” White 
said of UF’s potential. “We’re definitely not 
there, and we’re far from it, but we have the 
potential to get there and be competitive in this league.”
The primary focus in the Gators’ pursuit 
of growth will be limiting their turnovers. 
After seeing their offense operate first-
hand against another team, players were faced with the obvious flaws of an up-tem-po system if not run correctly.
“It’s so hard because you’re playing so 
fast,” Hill said. “Coach wants you to get down the court 
and get to the basket, but you have to un-
derstand that sometimes you have to put your brakes on and slow down a little bit.”
In its opener against Navy on Friday, and 
in the coming weeks, Florida will look to perfect White’s system.
After all, it has been proven to work.In his last year as coach at Louisiana 
Tech, the Bulldogs finished first in their 
conference in turnover margin (+4.75) and 39th in the nation in turnovers per game.
The Bulldogs tied with national cham-
pion Duke in turnovers per game and were four spots ahead of elite-eight team Arizo-na and 123 spots above last year’s Florida squad.
Naturally, for White, Florida’s 23 turn-
overs on Thursday were unacceptable.
“He wants us to run fast, but also when 
we have the ball to take care of it. It’s tough,” said Robinson, who led UF with 
five turnovers. 
“Obviously we didn’t get the grasp of it 
yet, but sooner or later we gotta take care 
of the ball.”
Early injury woes: After suffering an 
injury early in Florida's 89-42 exhibition win, redshirt senior forward Alex Murphy 
did not return to the game. 
On Friday, the Gators announced Mur-
phy would miss four to six weeks after suf-
fering a partial tear of the plantar fascia in 
his right foot.HOOPS,  from pg 13Florida's up-tempo offense had 23 turnovers on Thursday
Gators controlled the ball to a 
greater extent, limiting TAMU's opportunities. 
“If they don’t have the ball, 
it’s difficult for them to score,” Burleigh said. 
“When we have the ball, it’s 
our best defense because the oth-er team is chasing.”
The result from Sunday’s 
match was a culmination of the improvement the Gators have made since their early season loss to the Aggies. 
On Sept. 10, then-No. 10 Flor-
ida lost at home to then-No. 6 TAMU, in a game that Burleigh noted had a “lack of execution,” 
and that the team was “doing too 
much.”
In the 15-game span since that 
loss, Florida has dropped just one match, is in the midst of a nine-game winning streak and 
has clinched both the SEC regu-
lar season and tournament titles, while also emerging as the fifth-best team in the country. 
“It’s a real testament to the 
resilience that this team shows, given the fact that we started a little bit slow,” Burleigh said of the Gators’ progression through-
out the SEC schedule.
“The team just kept trying 
what we were doing, and it kept 
working really hard, and here we 
are.”UF is on a 
nine-match win streak
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain points to the crowd during the Gator Walk prior to Florida's 9-7 win over 
Vanderbilt on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF junior point guard Kasey Hill looks to pass during Florida's 89-42 exhibition win over Palm Beach Atlantic on Thursday in the O'Connell Center. 
COLUMN,  from pg 13
SOCCER,  from pg 1316   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2015
UF HADN’T LOST TO 
AUBURN SINCE 1990. 
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
 
Mary Wise had never lost to Au-
burn — until Sunday.
Florida’s head coach came 
into Sunday’s match 40-0 all time 
against the Tigers, but the Gators 
found themselves in a contested battle that went down to the wire. 
With the match on the line and 
Florida down 16-17 in the ﬁ  fth set, senior setter Mackenzie Dagostino set the ball high to senior middle blocker Simone Antwi.
Antwi, who jumped too early, 
swung and missed, as the ball fell on UF’s side of the court, deﬂ  ating the Gators and sending Auburn’s players into a frenzy.
The Tigers defeated the No. 11 
Gators in ﬁ  ve sets (22-25, 25-16, 26-24, 21-25, 16-18) in Auburn, Alabama, on Sunday, giving them their ﬁ  rst win over Florida since 
1990.
Wise, who was noticeably upset 
talking with her players after the 
game, gave all the credit to Auburn.
“This will be the signature win 
for their team,” she said, “and they deserved the win.”
The Gators (18-5, 10-4 South-
eastern Conference) still haven’t 
ﬁ  gured out how to win a ﬁ  ve-set 
match, as they’re now 0-4 in ﬁ  ve-setters this season.
Florida had no answer for Au-
burn’s defense in set one. 
The Tigers (14-10, 6-6 SEC) held the Gators to a .000 hitting percent-age, the lowest UF has hit in a set since a -.071 mark in the ﬁ  fth set against Arkansas on Oct. 4.
Florida stumbled into a 7-10 
hole before sophomore setter Abby Detering’s serve picked the Gators up.
Detering’s six-point service run, 
which included back-to-back aces, put UF in the driver’s seat with a 13-10 lead.
But the lead didn’t last long.Auburn went on a 15-9 run to 
win the set 25-22.
Florida had won its previous 
18 sets prior to dropping the ﬁ  rst frame. The Gators last lost a set against Kentucky on Oct. 18, 22-25 in set one, a match they’d go on to win 3-1.
In the second set, UF began to 
hit its stride. 
Florida and Auburn exchanged 
points in the beginning of the set before a series of service runs.
Senior defensive specialist Nikki 
O’Rourke helped separate UF with a three-point service run to take a 15-11 lead. 
A few points later, sophomore 
outside hitter Carli Snyder closed 
out the set with a four-point run 
behind the line to win it 25-16.
The third set was a battle be-
tween both teams.
AU jumped out to a quick 5-0 
lead, leaving the Gators with work to do.
On cue, Snyder’s serve worked 
Florida back to tie it up at 5-5.
UF pulled ahead later in the set 
23-18, but Auburn responded with ﬁ  ght.After the Tigers stole ﬁ  ve straight 
points to even the score at 23-23, and again at 24-24, junior right-side hitter Alex Holston pounded back-to-back kills to take set three 26-24.
The fourth set shaped up early 
like the third, except Auburn pre-vailed late.
At 18-18, the Tigers began to 
pull away with four straight points as part of a 7-3 run to win 25-21.
Then came the ﬁ  fth set.Florida started off hot, leading 
5-2 following back-to-back Auburn 
attack errors.
The Tigers bounced back and 
traded points with the Gators, who 
had a match point at 15-14 after senior outside Ziva Recek hitter slammed a kill.
UF couldn’t take advantage, 
and Auburn went on to tie up the set 16-16 before a kill and Antwi’s 
attack error sent the Gators home 
packing with a loss.
The defeat snapped a nine-game 
win streak for UF.
Wise said poor serving has had 
a lot to do with her team’s losses this season. 
UF recorded 15 service errors 
Sunday.
“What’s a common denomina-
tor in our losses?” Wise said. “Ser-vice errors.”
Lost in Florida’s defeat was 
the defensive performance of O’Rourke, who tallied a career-high 33 digs in the match.
The Gators will look to bounce 
against Alabama at home Friday 
night at 7.
 A radio broadcast contributed 
to this report.Gators point to service errors for ﬁ  ve-set loss to Auburn
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF setter Abby Detering serves during Florida’s 3-0 win over 
Auburn on Oct. 11. The Gators lost in the rematch on Sunday. 
