VOLUME 109 ISSUE 101 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Marston Starbucks opens Monday:
It has the same hours as the library, pg 5.  
Skip ‘Fifty Shades’ this Valentine’s Day:
Read Robyn’s take on the hit series, pg 6. UF law student continues cupid tradition:
He’s always had a passion for dressing up in 
costume, pg. 9. 57/34
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  12SPORTS 13
J.D. Tomlinson 
and the UF men’s 
golf team are prepar-
ing for their lone 
home tournament 
this weekend. Read 
the story on page 14.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
A Gainesville man lost control of his car 
and smashed into a table outside of Gator 
Corner Dining Center on Thursday after-
noon, leaving a 1,200-pound concrete picnic table in rubble.
Kevin McAllister, 52, was driving shortly 
after 2 p.m. in a silver Toyota Corolla with his friend, Delzora Ward, when he blacked out while turning onto Gale Lemerand Drive from Stadium Road. He then spun 
out in the intersection, eventually crashing 
into a table, a trash can and a light post.
It was the ﬁ  rst time he’s been in a car ac-
cident, he said.
“I remember just a bunch of coughing. 
I blacked out, and I remember my friend 
yelling at me to watch out,” McAllister said. “I remember hitting something, and I 
couldn’t believe what had happened.”
McAllister, a dialysis patient, was on 
his way to the medical plaza at UF Health Shands Hospital for a doctor’s appoint-
ment for a lung infection. The lung infec-
tion, which he has had for a little more than three months, caused him to pass out.
Though McAllister has passed out be-
fore, it’s the ﬁ  rst time he has while driving.
“Usually when I feel the coughing com-
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff 
University Police ofﬁ  cers investigate Thursday afternoon after a silver Toyota Corolla crashed into a 1,200 pound table outside 
Gator Corner Dining Center. The driver blacked out momentarily, but he is ﬁ  ne now. 
Car crashes in front of dining hall
 THE LGBTQ+ COMMUNITY 
STILL HAS ISSUES TO FIGHT FOR.
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
While the legality of same-sex mar-
riage is spreading across the nation, 
some LGBTQ+ activists are concerned the success of the ﬁ  ght for marriage equality will shift attention from the re-
maining struggle for equal rights.
With bills such as HB 583, known as 
the “Single-Sex Public Facilities” bill,  
making its way through the Florida House of Representatives, the next big ﬁ  ght for equality might center on the 
rights of transgender people. Trans-
gender is an umbrella term referring to anyone who falls outside of traditional gender roles.
HB 583 would restrict use of single-
sex bathrooms to only those who are biologically of the same sex. Since an individual’s sex is biological while gen-der identity is based more on societal 
norms, this would prevent transgen-
der people from using the bathrooms matching their gender.
“Gay marriage is not the most im-
portant thing that needs to be taken care of, (the most important thing is) anti-discrimination,” said Shanti Cruz, a board member of the Pride Commu-nity Center of North Central Florida. 
Cruz, 29, identiﬁ  es as genderqueer or 
androgynous and prefers the pronouns they or them.
“Transgender history goes back so Pronouns 
questioned for gender-
equality
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  ueroa@alligator.org
The ﬁ  rst debate of this election 
season wasn’t a debate. It was a fo-
rum featuring Access Party’s execu-tive candidates.
About 100 students shufﬂ  ed into the Computer Science Engineering building to listen and participate in a forum hosted by the Asian Ameri-can Student Union.
Access Party’s executive can-
didates, Joselin Padron-Rasines for Student Body president, Kevin Doan for Student Body vice presi-dent and Nicholas Carre for Student Body treasurer, answered pre-writ-ten questions from a cabinet within AASU and questions from members in the audience Thursday night.
Former UF Student Body Presi-
dent Anthony Reynolds moderated the debate. According to Alligator archives, Reynolds was originally Student Body vice president but became Student Body president when current president Ben Mey-ers stepped down due to personal reasons.
Reynolds is currently a third-
year law student at UF Levin Col-lege of Law.
The majority of the questions 
were centered on increasing diver-sity at UF.
“We understand that diversity is 
important to the University of Flori-
Access Party addresses AASU at first of a few SG debatesSEE CRASH, PAGE 4
SEE GENDER, PAGE 4
SEE AASU, PAGE 4Man blacked out while drivingNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 101 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarPARTLY 
CLOUDY
72/55PARTLY 
CLOUDY
63/48PARTLY 
CLOUDY
59/36PARTLY 
CLOUDY
63/45SUNNY
57/34TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAYWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Three Minute Thesis Competition 
registration
The UF Graduate School, in col-laboration with the Graduate Student Advisory Council, 
is hosting its second Three 
Minute Thesis Competition in April. The competition chal-lenges doctoral (Ph.D. or Ed.D) students to present their disser-tation research to a non-techni-cal audience in three minutes or less. Preliminary heats will be held March 10 to determine fi-
nalists for the grand finale event 
on April 7 in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Registration closes today. For more information and to register please visit grad-school.ufl.edu/3MT. 
PechaKucha at Volta
PechaKucha Gainesville No. 11 
will be held at Volta Coffee to-
day at 7 p.m. Stories range from designing ultra-energy-efficient housing to exploring Florida’s springs; from cross-country bike trips to the cutting edge of 3-D printing: the hidden life of Gainesville told in images and anecdotes, 20 images at a time. 
It’s free at Volta Coffee, located 
at 48 SW Second St.
Valentine’s Day Swing Dance
Florida Swing Dancing Club is hosting a Valentine’s Dance today at the Unified Training Center from 8 p.m. to mid-night. There will be lots of 
food, games, music and danc-
ing. There are lessons for all levels from 8 to 9 p.m. After the lessons, attendees can meet new people and practice what they’ve learned during the so-cial dance. Previous dancing experience or a dance partner is not necessary. 
GatorNights
Get away from the crazy Valentine’s cliche at the Love Me/Love Me Not GatorNights event today from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sweethearts can snuggle through the Tunnel of Love, take pictures together and Gator 1 Card. “A Valentine’s Night at the Museum” is for 
adults only (ages 18 and up). 
Preregistration is required. For more information, call 352-273-2061.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to kwiggins@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the paper.make memories that will last as long as your relationship 
does. On the flip side, take 
out that pent-up anger on a friend at the Battle Games inflatables. Attendees can for-get all about the negativity by watching “Horrible Bosses 2” and live comedy from Jenny Zigrino. It’s free with a Gator 1 Card.
Valentines for Veterans Spirit 
of America, Gainesville Civic Chorus Master ChoraleMusic is the poetry of the air. Its use has had a powerful impact during times of war; It bolstered those serving on the front lines as well as those 
waiting at home. Come hear 
songs that helped those in battle or eulogized those who passed in the name of free-dom. Join us in saluting our veterans in song Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at the First United Methodist Church, 419 NE First St. For more informa-
tion, visit GCChorus.org.
‘A T. rex Named Sue’ Loves 
You: A Valentine’s Night at 
the MuseumSpend Valentine’s evening at the Florida Museum of Natural History playing trivia games with your fa-
vorite Tyrannosaurus rex 
named Sue. The program fee includes admission to “A T. rex Named Sue” and par-ticipation in the museum’s Trivia Night. The museum is open from 6 to 10 p.m. for this event, and trivia begins at 7:30 p.m. Paid upon entry 
to the Florida Museum, the 
program fee is $10 per per-son or $15 per couple and free for museum members and UF students with a valid 
2, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a lo-
cal man early Thursday after they 
found a bag of weed in his butt and a bag of crack in his mouth.
At about 12:30 a.m., ofﬁ  cers 
stopped Winfred Alphonso McAl-lister Jr., 23, on Northeast 23rd Av-enue and Northeast Second Street after police saw his red Mitsubishi Galant swerve into the left turn-only lane and back into his original lane twice, according to a police report.
Ofﬁ  cers smelled marijuana 
around the car, but McAllister told police the scent was left over from when he smoked earlier. He said he did not have any with him.
When McAllister stepped out of 
the car, an ofﬁ  cer could still smell something. He searched McAllister and found a bag of weed inside his butt, according to the report.
McAllister reportedly asked the 
ofﬁ  cer, “Man, can you just give me 
a court date for it?” before the ofﬁ  cer 
removed the bag from his pants.
The ofﬁ  cer then noticed McAl-
lister was hiding something in his 
mouth and asked him to take it out. 
McAllister then began to chew and tried to swallow the object, but spit it out after the ofﬁ  cer forced it out, 
according to the report. Police iden-
tiﬁ  ed it as a plastic bag with crack-
cocaine inside.
Police arrested McAllister on 
charges of possession of a controlled 
substance, marijuana possession, 
drug equipment possession and 
tampering with evidence. Ofﬁ  cers took him to the Alachua County Jail. He was released at noon Thursday 
after meeting his $40,000 bond.Police: Man arrested 
with weed in his butt
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator
Picture Perfect
Cassandre Gaspard, 20, criminology major, takes the photo of Kaitlyn Lister (left), a 19-year-old 
UF business major, and Juan Gonzalez, an 18-year-old UF student. The cut-out Instagram frame was used to draw students in to learn about STRIVE, a GatorWell peer educator group.
HEALTH
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
Several locations around Alachua County 
will be open with resources to help citizens 
enroll for mandatory health care before enroll-ment ends Sunday.
The Epilepsy Foundation of Florida will 
have free counselors at four locations through-out the weekend to lead people through the application process. People who are not en-rolled by the Sunday deadline could be ﬁ  ned under the Affordable Care Act.
The foundation’s Gainesville ofﬁ  ce at 1000 NW Eighth Ave., Suite A, will be open from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. today, and from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday and Sunday. The organization will be 
at Tower Road Library from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
today and 1 to 5 p.m. Saturday and Sunday.
Saturday, it will be at Santa Fe College 
downtown Gainesville Center for Innovation and Economic Development at 530 W. Univer-sity Ave. from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. and at Mill-hopper Library from 1 to 5 p.m.
Those applying will need to bring proof 
of income so counselors can offer the best 
tax subsidies, which cut the cost of monthly 
premiums, said Mandy Hancock Anderson, community development manager of the Gainesville ofﬁ  ce.  
Hancock Anderson urged those without 
health care coverage to apply in order to be insured in case of a medical emergency.
“You never know what might happen,” 
she said. 
Preventative care is instrumental in help-
ing to prevent longer-term chronic illnesses, like asthma, she said.
People who fail to apply for coverage could 
incur a penalty of $325 or 2 percent of their 
household income, whichever is greater.
Some Santa Fe students said they think it’s wrong for the government to ﬁ  ne people who 
don’t apply.
“I don’t think people should be forced to 
have it,” said Kevin Lynn, a 49-year-old UF sociology graduate student. While he has cov-erage himself, he said it should be up to the individual to decide whether they want health care coverage.
“There’s a lot of different reasons people 
might not be covered,” Hancock Anderson said.
Still, she said, the Affordable Care Act’s tax 
credits can help make care more affordable for more people.Resources available all weekend for health care enrollmenting, I pull over real quick and 
do a lot of spitting,” he said. 
“This time, it happened too 
quick.”
Oppong Hemeng, a sec-
ond-year UF sports manage-ment graduate student, was walking to the Tolbert Resi-
dence Hall bus stop when he 
saw the accident.
“He spun out in the inter-
section,”  the 24-year-old said. “He came like he was flooring 
it.”
The car had minor scratch-
es and dents on the passen-ger’s side following the crash. 
The right turn signal was hanging from a wire, but the 
headlight was otherwise not 
damaged.
UF Physical Plant Division 
workers had to use a bull-dozer to remove pieces of the table from the top of the car. 
The rest was broken into rocks 
on the ground.
“We knew it was a table 
that was broken, but we weren’t expecting it to be in little pieces,” said Phillip Seay, 
a grounds maintenance super-
visor. “For it to be pulverized like this, he had to have hit it 
pretty hard.”
Seay said that though the 
division has dealt with run-over trees after accidents, this 
is the first time a table has been destroyed. He estimated 
that the table, made out of 
concrete and reinforced steel, weighed about 1,200 pounds.
UPD spokesman Maj. Brad 
Barber said McAllister wasn’t hurt in the accident.JASMINE MELENDEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
The doors to UF’s newest com-
munications firm may not be open 
yet, but students are making do by doing business elsewhere.
Three members of The Agency, 
UF’s student-run, integrated mar-keting communications firm, trav-eled to Cancún on Thursday for their first-ever international busi-ness trip.
“We’re going to go over there 
and see the parks first-hand so that we can really communicate to people about what an amazing or-
ganization this is,” said Amanda 
Arevalo, account executive for The Agency.
The team will be working with 
professional businesses, starting by visiting Experiencias Xcaret, a resort in Riviera Maya, until Sunday. They will explore their clients’ natural landscape, participate in recreation-
al activities and go behind the scenes 
on upcoming projects, Arevalo said.
Experiencias Xcaret works with 
tourism, nature and values in keep-ing in touch with the cultural heri-tage of the region, Arevalo said.The team will be traveling with 
Juan-Carlos Molleda, chairman of the Department of Public Relations.Molleda is an international public relations specialist, said Ryan Baum, assistant to the executive director of The Agency.
“I can’t think of a better person 
to be on the trip with them because he’ll be able to add so much,” he said.
Baum said that although The 
Agency is working from UF, the real goal is to reach the national and in-ternational clientele.
“This trip… shows that we are 
really going to be providing spe-
cial and unique opportunities for 
our students that they really aren’t going to get anywhere else,” Baum said.4, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff 
Access Party executive candidates Kevin Doan, Joselin Padron-Ra -
sines and Nicholas Carre answer questions from the audience.
Kat Anthony / Alligator 
A worker walks through the construction site of The Agency, located on the first floor of Weimer Hall, on 
Thursday afternoon. The Agency is UF’s new student-run, integrated marketing communications firm.
CAMPUSThe Agency starts doing business before opening its doors
UF has no plan to change the way it handles student genders
long, and it’s a shame that only now is when 
we’re getting to stuff,” Cruz said. “This is not a new phenomenon.”
The University of Vermont is one of sev-
eral institutions taking steps to become more 
accessible to transgender students.
According to a New York Times article, 
the university has enacted a program allow-
ing students to specify which pronouns others should use when referring to them, including gender-neutral ones, and new first names if they use anything other than their legal ones.
This information is then recorded in a 
campus-wide information system available to 
professors to avoid any awkward or hurtful 
mistakes when calling roll.“A lot of times people want to see things 
are this or that, black or white,” said Nadine Louis, a senior ambassador of LGBT Affairs. “There is a gray area; there are multiple gen-ders out there.”
Since universities are part of the academic 
sector and focus on education, Cruz said it’s important they are inclusive.
“The term diversity is a huge cop-out,” 
Cruz said. “It should be more about not try-
ing to exclude other individuals. So it’s more 
about accessibility.”
At UF, the only way for students to declare gender officially is while applying to the uni-
versity, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote 
in an email. Potential students can choose ei-ther male or female, or opt out of the question. There are currently no plans to change this process, Sikes said.
Louis, a 21-year-old theater senior, said UF 
could do more to be accessible to transgender students, specifically with bathrooms and housing.
“We’re the flagship university of the state,” 
she said. “All Gators deserve the same treat-ment.” GENDER , from page 1
Some want an Asian-American house
da,” Padron-Rasines said.
She said she wants to push to 
hire more diverse faculty members 
who help support the expansion of diversity courses.
Students expressed the desire 
to have a house on campus for the Asian-American community and for the Asian-American studies minor to expand. Another point of inter-est for the audience was the desire to reinstate Korean language classes, which were cut in 2009.
“We want to listen to all con-
cerns,” Carre said.  “We don’t put concerns of one group over another. That’s not what we’re here to do.”
Stephanie Wong, president of 
AASU, said the purpose of the forum was to allow students to voice their concerns to the candidates and learn about the party’s ideas. She said she was disappointed the Swamp Party did not accept AASU’s invitation because the organization wanted to have a real debate.
There will only be one debate be-
tween the two parties, which will be hosted by the Freshman Leadership Council on Tuesday at 6 p.m. in the University Auditorium.
“We admittedly don’t feel in-
volved in FLC debates,” Wong said.
She said she feels the organiza-
tion’s concerns are not addressed during the FLC debate and in other sectors of Student Government.“It’s hard to get them to listen to 
us,” she said. “We are the ones that have to step up.”
Maria Pitt, 20, said she went to 
the debate because it was an oppor-tunity to get to know the candidates.
“This is a good step in the direc-
tion toward transparency,” the UF graphic design junior said.
AASU , from page 1
CRASH , from page 1Man left uninjured“The term diversity is a huge cop-
out. It should be more about not 
trying to exclude other individuals. 
So it’s more about accessibility.”
Shanti Cruz
Pride Community Center board member“We’re going to go over 
there and see the parks 
first-hand so that we can 
really communicate to 
people about what an 
amazing organization this 
is.”
Amanda Arevalo
The Agency account executive
“He spun out in the 
intersection. He came 
like he was flooring it.”
Oppong Hemeng
UF sports management gradu-
ate studentFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
UF professor Brady Tripp was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital on Thursday morning after an SUV hit 
his motorcycle.
At about 10 a.m., Tripp, a clinical associate profes-
sor in the Department of Applied Physiology and Ki-nesiology, was driving a white motorcycle on Stadium Road when a teal 2007 Chevrolet Equinox pulling out of the drop-off area next to Keys Residential Complex hit him, University Police Sgt. Eddie King said.
The driver of the car, industrial engineering sopho-
more Nicholas Anthony Copelan Grimes, 20, was on his way to pick up his roommate, 20-year-old mechani-cal engineering sophomore Eddie Mendoza, from class.
Police said Tripp, 40, who was wearing a helmet 
at the time of the crash, was going in and out of con-sciousness after hitting his head.
“The person was on the floor, not moving, with po-
lice all around him. I couldn’t even see if it was a guy or a girl,” said Paula Silvagni, a 20-year-old finance junior. 
Her third-floor bedroom in Keys’ Building 2 over-
looked the crash.
Police said Grimes, also a UF cheerleader, would be 
cited for careless driving after the accident and will pay a $154 fine.
The motorcycle’s front forks were bent, and a light 
was missing after the crash. The car had a dented door.
“This is a very serious crash,” said UPD spokesman 
Maj. Brad Barber. “We remind all drivers to stay alert and drive defensively both on and off campus.”
It is the second crash involving a car and a two-
wheeled vehicle in two days. Two UF students were hospitalized Wednesday afternoon after a car hit the scooter they were riding at Southwest 19th Avenue and Southwest 34th Street.UF professor in 
hospital after on-campus accidentCHRIS CALDERON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Exercise-loving residents can rejoice as a Fort Lauder-
dale-based fitness franchise makes its way to Gainesville.
Orangetheory Fitness offers 60-minute workout 
classes that are split into intervals of cardiovascular and 
strength training, said Chris Giles, a sales associate at the 
Gainesville franchise. The gym is under construction and 
is scheduled to open in April.“The theory behind the Orangetheory workout is 
known as the excess post-exercise oxygen consumption, or EPOC,” Giles said. 
During a 60-minute workout, customers will perform 
multiple intervals designed to maximize their heart rates.  
This program is designed to produce the workout “af-
terburn” effect, which is an increased metabolic rate for 24 to 36 hours after the workout. Orangetheory Fitness clients burn about 500 to 1,000 calories every class.
Tommy Mcknew, owner of the Orangetheory 
Gainesville, said he thinks the gym will be successful in Gainesville.
“Gainesville is one of the most athletic cities in Florida, 
and that is why I am opening the franchise here,” he said.
The gym will offer seven different packages for cus-
tomers to choose from based on their fitness preferences. Discounted rates are being offered until the gym opens, including 10 to 15 percent off their normal rates, Mcknew said.
“Our prices are very competitive compared to other 
gyms in Gainesville,” he said.
Orangetheory Fitness charges about $10 to $15 per 
class, which Mcknew said is a great rate compared to other gyms in Gainesville that charge upwards of $20.
Orangetheory Fitness also offers a student discount of 
about 10 percent off depending on the package, he said.
Jakob Raymond, a sports management sophomore at 
UF, is excited for the gym to open.
“This type of class is something different that a lot of 
gyms don’t have,” Raymond, 19, said. “I am definitely excited to try an Orangetheory class and see what all of the hype is about.”
The Gainesville franchise’s employees are signing up 
customers outside of their location at 2005 NW 43rd St. during regular business hours. They can also be reached at 352-559-3937New fitness franchise to open in GNVVERONICA GARCIA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Loyal Marston Science Library 
dwellers will soon have coffee at 
their fingertips.
A fifth campus Starbucks loca-
tion is opening on the first floor of Marston at 8 a.m. Monday.
Starbucks will mirror the hours 
of the library, wrote Jill Rodriguez, Aramark district marketing pro-gram manager, in an email.
David Looney, associate direc-
tor of the Business Services Divi-sion for Gator Dining Services, 
wrote in an email the Starbucks 
addition has been in the works since November 2013.
Looney said determining the 
price specific to the Starbucks proj-
ect is complicated, as there were 
other construction projects at Mar-ston.He estimated construction cost around $625,000.
Gator Dining Services has hired 
all new baristas for the Marston location, and it is fully staffed for Monday’s opening, Rodriguez said.
Valrie Minson, chairwoman of Marston Library and associate uni-versity librarian, wrote in an email that the new Starbucks is going to complement the newly renovated Collaboration Commons on the ground floor of Marston.
“(Because) it is fully integrated 
into the library space, customers will use the exterior doors during the weekday daylight hours and the interior doors after sundown and on weekends,” Minson said.
Vanessa Reigosa, 19, said she 
studies at Marston often because she likes the environment, as it is less crowded than some of the oth-er libraries on campus.
The UF Latin American studies 
sophomore said she thinks more people will go to Marston rather than Library West because of its central location near Turlington 
Plaza. 
However, this might come with 
negative consequences, she said.
“At first I thought it might make 
the lines less long like the other Starbucks locations,” Reigosa said, 
“but now I’m starting to just think 
it will just be a fifth Starbucks that will have really bad lines.”New Starbucks opens in Marston Science Library on Monday
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Marston Science Library visitors walk by the entrance to Starbucks on the first floor Wednesday. The Starbucks will open Monday and will follow the same hours as the Marston Science Library.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
John David Eriksen, a 32-year-old software engineer and musician, works out at Alter Ego Fitness at 101 SE Second Place on Thursday evening.
Gainesville Health and Fitness 
$24.47 every 2 weeks
Planet Fitness: 
$49 down, $10.60 a month
Alter Ego Fitness classes: 
$11 for a daily pass
Evolve Pilates and Fitness classes: 
$12 to $30 per class, depending on 
which oneReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgToday’s question: On Valentine’s Day: Signiﬁ  cant other 
or chocolate?
46 TOTAL VOTES46% YES
54% NOFriday’s question: Are you in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences?Skip ‘Fifty Shades’ this Valentine’s Day
Put away your candy hearts and ﬂ  owers and pull out 
your ﬂ  oggers and whips — “Fifty Shades of Grey” is here.
For those of you who don’t know — have you been liv-
ing under a rock for the past four years? — “Fifty Shades” 
is the story of powerful billionaire Christian Grey, who is 
obsessed with BDSM — bondage and discipline, domi-nance and submission, sadism and masochism — and his love affair with the innocent college student Anastasia Steele.
The book series, based off “Twilight” fan ﬁ  ction, be-
came incredibly popular for its depiction of explicit sex. The movie comes out today, and I have a feeling that it’s already on the schedule for many of your weekend plans. 
But if you’re going to see the movie because you think it’s 
kinky, hot, sexy and will spice up your otherwise monoto-nous sex life, don’t.
Now, I’ll be honest. I haven’t fully read the book. I 
did borrow my mom’s copy in the dead of night to skim through and read the sex scenes — which, by the way, was eerily reminiscent of 11-year-old me stealing my mom’s romance novels. I’m not here to comment on the horrible writing, which is often criticized, or the repeated phrases 
the author writes — Ana spends almost half the book ei-
ther blushing or talking about her inner goddess.
The problem with “Fifty Shades” is that it romanticizes 
an unhealthy relationship. Ana and Christian’s relation-ship is far from what a safe BDSM relationship looks like. In fact, I went to a BDSM workshop last week, and people who actually practice domination and submission com-plained about the bad messages “Fifty Shades” sends.
This is dangerous because as “Fifty Shades” gets more 
popular, it makes it harder for people to differentiate be-tween BDSM and abuse. 
Just to be clear, “Fifty Shades” is closer to abuse than 
actual, healthy BDSM practice.
Christian Grey exhibits controlling tendencies. He 
is manipulative, jealous and threatening. In one of the movie clips, he tells Ana that he is “incapable of leav-ing (her) alone,” which is something a stalker might say. These aren’t sexy characteristics; they’re creepy.
There are many scenes in the 
book when Ana considers leav-ing — when she cries, when she 
agrees to let Christian spank her 
because she doesn’t want him to leave. One scene reads, “‘No,’ I protest, trying to kick him off.” That’s not something that hap-
pens in healthy relationships, even ones that involve BDSM.
One Cosmopolitan writer who got to watch the movie 
early said it was hard to watch Ana get hit, knowing that 
she was unhappy. “There was consent in the movie; that’s 
important,” the author wrote. “But Ana wanted some-thing else from Christian, not what he was giving her — and for her relationship to have been a healthy one, as anyone who practices BDSM will tell you, she needed to really believe in what she and Christian were doing.”
I don’t mean for this to stop you from reading erotica or 
to discourage you from exploring BDSM. If you’re looking for an erotic novel, I recommend “Story of O.” If you’re 
looking to get into kink, I recommend attending work-
shops or talking to people who actually practice it.
But fulﬁ  lling and healthy BDSM requires constant com-
munication, constant consent and constant feedback. All participants need to be on the same playing ﬁ  eld, whereas Christian is in a power position over Ana. All participants need to get some form of pleasure out of it, and they need to be informed about what they are consenting to. And by the way, said consent should never be coerced out of 
someone.
So here’s my suggestion for Valentine’s Day: Skip the 
“Fifty Shades” showing, stay at home, put on the movie 
soundtrack — which is the only part of the movie that I can fully get behind — and spend the two hours doing something a lot safer, a lot more fun and a lot sexier.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism junior. Her column ap-
pears on Fridays.So, it’s the middle of midterms, and like you, we’re 
looking desperately for the light at the end of this dark, dark tunnel. Coffee has completely wrecked our 
digestive systems, and it feels like we gave up on eating real food weeks ago. But there’s hope on the horizon — we’re right at peak testing insanity, and there’s only about a week left. Until then, enjoy this holding-out-for-next-weekend edition of… 
Darts & Laurels
We got to enjoy the 57th Grammy awards last Sunday, 
full of drama and intrigue. Luckily, Iggy Azalea didn’t win the award for Best Rap Album, so the internet remains intact. But s*** came pretty close to hitting the fan when 
Beck accepted his all-encompassing award for Album of 
the Year. This was totally cool in every way except for the 
fact that by winning the award, Beck and the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences were snubbing Beyoncé. Historically, giving off so much as the appear-
ance of spurning Beyoncé has been shown to provoke the 
righteous fury of one Mr. Kanye West. 
This pattern held on Sunday, when West appeared to be 
repeating his behavior from the 2009 VMAs. Thankfully, 
he pulled back in time to prevent a truly spectacular round 
of upheaval. Still, social and traditional media alike set it-
self ablaze with activity, ranging from theories that West is 
deeply and irrevocably in love with Beyoncé to hyper-mor-alizing posts and the refreshing, original declaration that West is a wacky egomaniac. As with West’s own personal-
ity, it’s difﬁ  cult to tell if the act itself was an intentional 
performance or the stunt of an unrestrained id devoid of 
any self-awareness whatsoever. Whatever the cause, we’re giving a DART to those who would feel smug about judg-
ing a man who clearly doesn’t think straight.
A common talking point is the sorrowful observation of 
the divisiveness and intense dislike that seems to plague American politics today. Of course, dissent and power-ful disagreements are nothing new here — remember the Civil War? — but still, it’s nice when something happens in Washington we can all agree on. One such instance hap-pened yesterday, when the president signed the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act. Named in honor of U.S. Marine and suicide victim Clay Hunt, the act requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to seriously ramp up its struggle against veteran suicides. Legislation like this is much needed; it’s estimated 22 veterans commit suicide each day, though some sources believe that number may actually be higher. In the face of these grave statistics, we’re giving a LAUREL to everybody involved in the pas-
sage of this act.
One last thing: we had a very special group of visitors 
to the Alligator this week. A troop of cub scouts from Pack Nine, Den Six came to the newsroom to meet us and learn about the importance of media. It was wonderful to meet you guys, and you’re all welcome back anytime. So here’s a thanks-for-dropping-by LAUREL for you guys. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
As a culture, Americans have long been ﬁ  xated 
on the idea of being “the best.” As any cultural anthropologist could tell you, this phenomenon 
is the natural by-product of being “the best” country the world has ever seen. Naturally, our esteemed privilege has often led us to debate who or what is “the best” in their respective ﬁ  elds. “The best” president. “The best” 
college football team. “The best” Kardashian. “The 
best” ﬂ  avor of Doritos to go with your Mountain Dew. “The best” instance of Rob Schneider yelling “You can do it!” in an Adam Sandler ﬁ  lm. It is these debates, ra-tional and nuanced as they are, that have helped to keep 
American civil discourse the respected, revered institu-
tion that it is.
With the 87th Academy Awards show rearing its 
head, much talk has turned toward deciding who our 
best actors are. Although this year’s list of nominees 
certainly includes worthy contenders, Steve Carell and Michael Keaton among them, the Academy somehow managed to egregiously overlook America’s undisput-edly greatest actor. A man who has made us laugh. A 
man who has made us cry. A man who had the pluck 
to hang the largest dong that cinema has ever seen. I speak, of course, of Mark Wahlberg, America’s greatest cultural export and undisputedly “best” actor.
Now, I know what many of you would say to me: 
“But Zach, the only Mark Wahlberg movie worth men-tioning this year was ‘Transformers 4!’ Regardless of Michael Bay’s earned reputation, he didn’t elicit an Oscar-worthy performance from Mark Wahlberg in a 
movie in which he kills a man with a football!”
Because my editors have told me that I have a 750 
word-count limit, I’m going to refrain from tearing into 
this theoretically myopic and juvenile statement. When 
discussing Wahlberg, it is important to understand that 
any and all criticism levied against the man’s eligibility for awards and status as “the best” are automatically rendered null by his myriad achievements: a starring turn in “Boogie Nights” (where he bravely hung afore-
mentioned dong), “The Other Guys,” the thunder bud-
dy song in “Ted,” his turn as a Calvin Klein underwear model in the early ‘90s and as the producer of “Entou-rage” and “Wahlburgers.”
As crucial as these moments are to American cul-
ture, they are just that: ﬂ  eeting, ephemeral blips in time. Thus, the central questions of this piece emerge: What is Wahlberg’s deﬁ  nitive artistic 
statement? What makes Wahl-
berg “the best” American art-ist to ever bare his schlong on the silver screen? How many 
excuses can I ﬁ  nd to talk about 
Wahlberg’s dick? Like so many Upworthy and BuzzFeed ar-
ticles, the answer may surprise you.
When I tell people Wahlberg was not only a rapper 
called Marky Mark, but he had a whole posse — the Funky Bunch — and that their debut album “Music for the People” was a shining achievement in music, I’m of-ten met with incredulous looks. This is understandable. 
It would be decades before people caught on to Vincent 
Van Gogh’s now undeniable genius, so why should the works of Marky Mark be any different?
“Music for the People” is perhaps the deﬁ  nitive pop-
ulist record. As Marky Mark makes clear in the opening 
track, “Music for the People,” he makes music for the 
people. In today’s fragmented musical culture, you’d be hard-pressed to ﬁ  nd an artist so dedicated, nay, deter-mined to move more than one speciﬁ  c subset of individ-
uals. This ambition is best embodied by the album’s sec-
ond track, “Good Vibrations.” With its staccato piano rhythm and ingenious rhyme scheme, one need look no further than the lyrics to observe Marky Mark’s egali-tarian aims in action: “Yo it’s about that time/To bring 
forth the rhythm and the rhyme/Imma get mine so get 
yours/I wanna see sweat comin’ out your pores/On the house tip is how I’m swinging this/Strictly hip hop boy I ain’t singing this/Bringing this to the entire nation/
Black, white, red, brown/Feel the vibration.”
Black, white, red and brown — truly, the music of 
Wahlberg knows no race, creed, color or religion. It is 
this universality, this total and utter dedication to craft and sincere lyricism that makes “Music for the People” 
and Wahlberg himself deﬁ  nitive American works. 
“Music for the People,” as well as that scene in “Boogie Nights” where Wahlberg whips out his cock, get a ten out of ten, would do again.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science junior. His column 
appears on Fridays.Straight outta Bahston: Mark Wahlberg, 
the Oscars and American greatnessColumn
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.org For a country that urges young people to get educated 
in order to get ahead, we’re quickly becoming a na-tion of idiots. Perhaps the Mike Judge ﬁ  lm “Idioc-
racy” accurately predicted a future America in which ev-eryone is a dunce, where any idiot who time travels to the 
future is automatically the smartest man in the country. 
Whatever the cause, our collective idiocy could undo all that our country has accomplished, and that should terrify everyone out of their pants. Sure, we can pride ourselves on American exceptionalism or believe that a 230-year-old constitution will save the day, but something is amiss in the U.S., and we need an urgent course correction.
Groundhog Day was last 
week; a day in which millions 
of Americans believe a weather 
forecast from a large rodent. Yet, even when 97 percent of climate scientists claim that Earth is getting dangerously warm, we question their logic. Adding to the insanity is the recent measles outbreak, high-lighting the growing anti-vaccination crowd in the U.S. 
Despite almost every doctor believing the measles vac-
cine is overwhelmingly safe and effective, far too many believe in junk science that calls into question a vaccine that wiped out measles in our country. As a result of their skepticism, measles is back with a vengeance.
As a nation, we regularly elect so-called leaders to gov-
erning bodies who have no intention of working together to solve any problems facing our country. As a result, our infrastructure goes woefully underfunded — recently highlighted by an overpass collapsing in Ohio — and a lack of action leads more Americans to trust institutions less, therefore exacerbating the problem.
The lack of trust and respect for governing institutions 
was most evident during last year’s midterm election. Mi-chael McDonald, a political scientist at UF, analyzed voter turnout during the 2014 midterm election and determined the country had the lowest voter turnout in 70 years.
What does this mean? We’re either too busy to care or 
we’re fed up with the institutions elected to represent us. Either way, when you combine apathy and idiocy, you have a dangerous combination that could threaten anoth-er century of American exceptionalism.
To believe that American ingenuity or exceptionalism 
will keep us at the top is naive and dangerous.  
Some of the top Republican presidential contenders 
— including Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie — announced last week that they are less than enthusiastic supporters of vaccines. Paul claims vaccines can cause severe mental trauma in children — a claim that’s been debunked by numerous doctors and scientists — and Christie fully believes a parent has the right to choose whether their child can put others at risk by not vaccinating.
Naturally, these pronouncements came shortly after 
President Barack Obama urged parents to vaccinate their children. Yes, even vaccines  —  something parents in oth-er parts of the world dream of having for their children — are politicized among the idiocracy of the U.S. 
Adding to the collection of stupidity running the coun-
try, recently elected Sen. Thom Tillis, R-NC, told a group that restaurants should have the right to opt out of hand-washing rules for their employees. Never mind nearly 60 
percent of foodborne illness comes from the Norovirus 
and an estimated 12 percent of restaurant workers admit-ted to being sick to their stomachs while at work.
We can no longer afford to tolerate blatant stupidity 
in the U.S. with the assumption that America’s awesome-ness will guide us to the top. If vaccination rates continue to dip and previously eradicated diseases return to our shores, you’ll know whom to thank. Thank the idiots and those unwilling to care — who somehow have the keys 
to the insane asylum — while the rest of us attempt to 
navigate the murky waters of the U.S. in the 21st century. 
Joel Mendelson, is a UF graduate student in political cam-
paigning. His column appears on Fridays.Idiots threaten the 
United States’ safety and futureColumn
Joel Mendelson
opinions@alligator.orgZEE KRSTIC
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cupid crashed an event at the UF 
Levin College of Law’s library Thursday, 
draped in a pale pink toga and acces-sorized with feathery, white wings.
Bobby Walsh, a 25-year-old UF law 
student, surprised classmates and faculty on campus as part of his annual tradition of playing Cupid.
He was the center of attention at the 
Lawton Chiles Legal Information Cen-ter’s open house, which was geared to-ward sharing important resources with law students. Armed with a bow and ar-
row, he embraced selfies and giggles.
Walsh has been moonlighting as Cu-
pid since enrolling at Levin in 2012 after 
earning his undergraduate degree from UF in business management and “a mi-nor in swimming” as a member of UF’s Division I swim team.
He has a passion for dressing up and 
amusing students, he said, which be-
gan when he and a close friend ran onto 
Turlington Plaza dressed up as gorillas, holding signs that read, “Gorilla hugs are better than bear hugs,” and hugging the people passing by.
It became a tradition to join the rush 
on Turlington Plaza and surprise students with pranks and gifts. It didn’t take long before he took his antics to law school.
“My first year, I was very serious in 
my studies and wanted to be as profes-sional as possible,” he said. “But Valen-tine’s Day came around and I decided to 
have fun. I wanted to bring some smiles 
to the law school, which doesn’t happen every day.”
In his first year as Cupid, Walsh said 
he barged into classrooms, handing out candy and valentines to unsuspecting students.
That same year, the Florida Supreme 
Court justices visited campus to speak to 
law students as part of a lecture series — 
and some were Walsh’s victims.  
“I open the door, and the entire room 
just gasps,” Walsh said, imitating the re-action of the class of 150 students.
But he kept going.After apologizing, he darted down 
the aisle handing out valentines to the room of laughing students and Florida 
Supreme Court justices.
Later, he was approached by Justice 
Barbara Pariente, a “little, five-foot-noth-
ing, sweet lady,” asking for a photo.
“I wish I got it on my phone too,” 
he said. “I wasn’t thinking at the time, dumbstruck that a justice would want to take a photo with me.”
He didn’t deliver his usual grams this year, but Cupid was still invited to the in-formation session.
“(The staff) asked if I could do my 
thing today and, of course, I said yes,” Walsh said.  
Walsh is set to graduate in May with 
a J.D., but he plans on “passing on the 
bow” to law student Sean Breit-Rupe.
After he graduates, he will work 
within the U.S. Navy Judge Advocate 
General’s Corp. in operational law, but also fight to become the next “American Ninja Warrior,” planning to dominate the reality show competition.
Walsh said he scheduled his last year 
at UF accordingly so that he can compete 
in “American Ninja Warrior,” which be-
gins filming during exam week later this spring. He has been training for the com-petition with yoga, olympic weight train-ing and bodyweight exercises.
“I actually met two guys who have 
seven or eight obstacles set up in their backyard in Micanopy, and I train with them when I can,” Walsh said. “Between 
all that, hopefully I will be well-prepared 
for the show.”  
Danielle Bernard, 20, was one of the 
students who snapped a photo with Walsh on Thursday. Bernard, a UF soci-ology sophomore, entered the law library in search of a quiet place to study.
“I wasn’t expecting to see Cupid in 
the library,” she said. “Out of all places to 
study, I walked smack into Cupid and a 
Valentine’s Day surprise.”
Bernard said she will continue to 
study at the law library and hopes she’ll see Cupid again some day.
“I thought it was fun and spontane-
ous,” she said. “Not anyone else I know will have this picture, and that’s rare here at UF.”
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Seven hundred and eighty.That’s the number of playing cards Barbie Vana-
ki turned into meaningful tokens for girlfriends and boyfriends with caring hearts but lack of time this Valentine’s Day. Vanaki joins a wave of stu-
dent entrepreneurs putting in long hours to create 
unique, personalized valentines for others.
All a student had to do was come up with 52 
reasons why he or she likes — or hates — that spe-cial someone.
Vanaki took care of the rest.She printed each honey-dipped line onto a sin-
gle card and created a 52-page booklet of love.
It took about two hours to punch 156 holes in 52 
playing cards.
“God forbid you poke holes in the wrong side 
of the card and have to start all over again,”  said Vanaki, a 20-year-old UF psychology and criminol-ogy junior.
Each deck sold for $20. She received about 15 
requests, mainly from frazzled boyfriends. To her 
surprise, no hate cards were requested.
“If I wasn’t in a relationship, making these 
people card decks would have been pretty depress-
ing,” Vanaki said.
Marissa Ogburn and Tammy Li are also play-
ing cupid on this year’s holiday, but their game re-volves around jewelry.
Ogburn, a UF sports management and business 
freshman, makes stone-embellished necklaces, ear-
rings and rings. This Valentine’s Day, three girl-
friends will be gifted with her homemade neck-laces.
“They’re all one-of-a-kind,” the 18-year-old 
said.
The necklaces run from $11 to $17 and take a 
couple hours to finish.
Tammy Li sells engraved bracelets for $8 a 
piece. She uses a hammer to hand-stamp each let-ter onto an aluminum cuff.
This year, “Yours” and “Mine” were popular 
phrases on the cuffs, said Li, a 21-year-old UF nu-
trition senior. About 20 requests came in for the 
holiday, mostly from best friends wanting to show their friends how much they care.
Aside from perfecting others’ Valentine’s Day, 
Vanaki – the card-deck maker – has plans of her own. Her boyfriend Zach Clauss could’ve had a beer-and-cigar-filled “man-crate,” but that surprise was ruined.
He’s now stuck with another heart-melting gift.
Vanaki filled a beer mug with a healthy dose of 
chocolate chips and stuffed strawberry, cheesecake 
and marshmallow skewers in it.
“We can make fondue out of it,” she said.But not all Valentine entrepreneurs are sweet.Across campus, paper fliers advertising break-
up grams were taped onto metal poles.
“Send your love one LAST kiss… with a… 
BREAK UP GRAM,” the flier read. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Bobby Walsh (left), a 25-year-old UF law student, poses for a picture with 
Danielle Bernard while dressed as Cupid at the Lawton Chiles Legal Informa -
tion Center’s open house in the Levin College of Law library Thursday.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator That Which We Call a Rose
John Wu, a 20-year-old finance and Chinese double major, sells roses that will benefit the S.O.S. Children’s Villages outside Turling-ton Hall on Thursday. Sigma Beta Rho fraternity headed the col-lection of donations and was among clubs celebrating the holiday.
UF law student takes cupid tradition to ninja competition
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Leah Warwick, a 21-year-old UF sociology senior, laughs while she watches members of Phi Mu Alpha, a music fraternity, perform a song for 
her. “I wasn’t expecting it,” Warwick said. “It’s cheesy in a good way.”CAMPUS
KENDALL PRIOR
Alligator Contributing Writer
Valentine’s Day isn’t all superfi-
cial.
This Valentine’s Day, people 
can spread the love and support to 
charities by making cards, donating 
money or requesting a serenade.
Cody Anderson is not a veteran 
himself, but he will be walking for 30 straight hours to raise awareness 
for Valentines for Veterans, a pro-
gram that gives valentine cards to U.S. veterans in the area.
He is requesting people submit 
cards for him to deliver around the 
city. They can be dropped off at Van 
Fleet Hall, the ROTC building on 
UF’s campus.
“We owe everything to a sol-
dier,” Anderson, 59, said. “All my 
life I’ve tried to repay a debt of grat-
itude.”
He has volunteered his time and 
energy for the past 39 years to help 
those in need. Since then, he said he has raised more than $200 million 
for various charities.
This Valentine’s Day, he wants to 
show that respect and love for the 
veterans by ensuring that each vet-
eran in the area gets a Valentine’s 
Day card.
“I have the utmost respect and 
appreciation for everyone who served,” Anderson said.
Other organizations are using 
the holiday to fight for cures.Suzanne Smith, Epsilon Sigma 
Alpha president of the Delta Chi 
chapter, said the co-ed fraternity 
raises funds for St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital to help children 
in the hospital, as inspired by fellow 
member Lindsey Tercilla. A former 
St. Jude’s patient, Tercilla was 2 
years old when she spent several 
months in the hospital for a tumor 
on her small intestine, said Smith, a 
21-year-old UF biology senior.
All ESA fraternities in the U.S. 
raise money for St. Jude to help chil-
dren like Tercilla. One of their fund-
raisers, ESA Hearts St. Jude, is held 
each February for Valentine’s Day.
Phi Mu Alpha has already been 
serenading for a cause for two weeks. The music fraternity is sup-
porting Relay for Life by helping 
others show their love, singing two 
songs for $25.
At about 3:15 p.m. on the Plaza of 
the Americas on Thursday, a group 
of five suited up and serenaded an unsuspecting woman with, “I Just 
Called To Say I Love You.”
Howard Lin, member and UF 
advertising sophomore, said they 
will serenade friends and signifi-
cant others all to help cancer pa-
tients. There is even a plan to assist 
a proposal.
“I think (my favorite) would 
have to be ‘My Girl,’ just because it’s a classic song,” Lin, 19, said. “It 
perfectly sums up serenade and is 
directed at one girl.”UF valentines for charity
BUSINESSValentine’s showcases business-minded creativityMAURICIO ALMENARA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alexa Tsongranis never thought 
of Gainesville as a romantic spot.
On Feb. 5, Amazon.com released 
its annual Top 20 romantic cities in 
the U.S., with Gainesville cracking 
the list at No.19. Knoxville, Tennes-
see, held the No. 1 spot with Miami at No. 2 and Orlando at No. 3.
“It’s shocking,” said Tsongranis, 
a 21-year-old UF advertising junior. “It’s not like a big city attraction like 
NYC. You don’t think of Gainesville 
like Paris.”
Each city was ranked based on 
the number of romantic products its citizens bought through Amazon.Some of the purchases include ro-mance novels, relationship books, romantic comedies, romantic music and sexual wellness products.
Lauren Davis, an 18-year-old cashier at the Lingerie Company, at 2614 SW 34th St., said she thinks places like her store contribute to a  
city’s romantic culture.
“There’s a lot of romantic items 
here,” Davis said, referring to the 
Lingerie Company. “They would find pleasure from our store.”
Samantha Evans, a sexual-health 
educator at GatorWell Health Pro-motion Services, said GatorWell orders about 40,000 condoms every 
academic year. Students can pick 
them up for free at Jennings Hall and the Health Hut, which moves to different locations throughout the week.
But sex isn’t everything, she 
said.
“You can be romantic and show 
love toward a person, but that 
doesn’t include sex or sex toys,” Ev-
ans said.
Kelsey Harrell, a UF public re-
lations senior, said her idea of a romantic place has lots of parks, different sceneries, romantic restau-rants and an older crowd.
“I don’t think of this as a roman-
tic town,” Harrell, 22, said. “It’s a 
pretty town. It has a lot of things to 
offer but not necessarily romance.”Gainesville ranked 
19th most romantic US city by Amazon  IT’S FRIDAY NIGHT AT THE FLORIDA 
MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY.
MARCELLA TORTORICI
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students who find themselves dateless this Val-
entine’s Day can make plans with a 67-million-year-
old dinosaur.
The Florida Museum of Natural History is host-
ing a one-night-only event at 6 p.m. Saturday featur-
ing its dinosaur, Sue, in A T. rex named Sue Loves 
You: A Valentine’s Night at the Museum.
The museum is hosting an adult-themed trivia 
game, and only those aged 18 or older will be al-lowed to enter. The “A T. rex named Sue” exhibit will be open for exploration as well as the other ex-hibits, with the exception of the butterfly rainforests.
The event is open to the public until 10 p.m. and 
is $10 per person and $15 per couple. It is free for 
museum members and UF students with a Gator 1 
Card.
“People can actually come in for maybe just 30 
minutes,” said Ireland, public programs educator for the Florida Museum. “They can spend the eve-ning (here) after they see a movie.” 
Ireland said she is hoping to see about 100 people. 
Registration isn’t necessary, but it is appreciated.
“We wanted to try this out and see if it’s the type 
of program that the community and students want,” Ireland said.Millions of years 
of love: Date night with a dino
“I open the door, and the 
entire room just gasps.”
Bobby Walsh
 25-year-old UF law student
“You can be romantic 
and show love toward a 
person, but that doesn’t 
include sex or sex toys.”
Samantha Evans
GatorWell sexual-health educatorFrom Gainesville, 
With LoveFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
Volunteers of America is offering free, all-
inclusive housing for homeless veterans in a friendly, supportive atmosphere. Please call Woody at 352.642.8313 for immediate move-in!    2-16-15-7-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo
4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    
2-25-15-20-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
Available Aug 1st studio, 1 blk from campus, W/D is in unit, working fireplace, hardwood floors. $525/mo, 106 SW 12th St. Call/text 352-339-2342 for more info. gainesvillequali -
tyrentalhouses.com    2-19-15-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
PUBLIC AUCTIONLive & OnlineTues, Feb 17th at 10am2252 Hayes Street, Hollywood, FL 33020Sale will consist of: 6,600+ brand handbags, pick-up trucks, armored van, forklifts, medi-cal equipment, office furniture, computers, laptops, office equipment, flat screen TV’s, warehouse equipment, pallet racking, new IT equipment, lg. qty of body/compression un-dergarments, stretch jeans and much more!15%-18%BPAssignment & Receivership caseswww.moeckerauctions.com / (800) 840-BIDSAB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     2-13-1-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-20-14-73-13 
TOP CASH PAID FOR OLD GUITARS!1920's thru 1980's Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg,  and Gibson, Mandolins/Banjos.1-800-401-0440     2-13-1-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Best Programming Job in Gainesville
Help build WWW 3.0 - the Semantic Web. 
Must be experienced ASP.NET MVCprogrammer. Change the scientific world. Apply to info@chemicalsemantics.com    2-13-15-7-14
12, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Blueprint LSAT is hiring! $15/hour
Blueprint LSAT is hiring students to flyer
on and around the UFL campus for 2-5 
hours a week (make your own schedule). 
Flyers will be provided. Very flexible!
2-18-15-5-14
We are looking for highly motivated,
responsible, hardworking individuals
for the summer semester.
Positions include:
Floor Instructors
Receptionists
Kid’s Club Attendants
Housekeeping / Sparkle Crew
Zwurly’s Cafe
Internships also available 
Apply at www.ghfc.com/careers
or any of our three locations
2-16-15-2-14
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW!
Learn to drive for CON-WAY TRUCKLOADNO Experience Needed. Local CDL TrainingApply Today! 1-800-709-7364    2-13-1-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    2-13-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Training! 3 Week Program. Bulldozers, Backhoes, Excavators.  Lifetime Job Placement Assistance with National Certifications. VA Benefits Eligible! (866) 912-0572    2-13-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-14-71-15Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
WELDING CAREERS - Hands on training 
for career opportunities in aviation, automo-tive, manufacturing and more. Financial aid for qualified students. Job placement assis-tance. CALL AIM 877-206-7679    2-13-1-15
AIRCRAFT DISPATCH Grads work with JetBlue, Southwest, PSA and others- start here with 10 week training for FAA certifica-tion. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    2-13-1-15
FLIGHT Attendant CAREERS start here – Learn how to land a job in the friendly skies and prepare for training by the airlines. Five information packed days in Orlando. Call AIM 888-242-3630.    2-13-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 855-588-1161    2-13-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Attention Viagra Users!VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305     2-13-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCHOHOL? Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-972-6607    2-13-1-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/16-2/19 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to teaching -
center.ufl.edu and “Study Skills” to register.     2-16-5-20
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORGMike Holloway’s track and 
field teams head off to two different events this weekend. Read more at alligatorSports.org.Poll Question
Which team has a better chance of reaching a postseason tournament: men’s basketball or women’s basketball? Vote online at alligatorSports.org.
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
Dorian Finney-Smith’s three-
pointer should have been good enough.
The shot gave Florida a 61-57 
lead with nearly three minutes to play, and all the Gators had to do was close out.
But UF went scoreless down 
the final 2:53, allowing Ole Miss to 
come back and win 62-61 on a long-
range game-winning dagger from Stefan Moody with less than three 
seconds to play to hand the Gators 
their third-straight Southeastern 
Conference defeat.
“They threw it to him, he took 
one step and bombed in a shot,” 
coach Billy Donovan said about 
Moody’s clutch shot. “That was re-
ally the difference in the game. Give him credit for knocking down a big shot when his team needed it.”
Florida lost in a very similar 
way to the Rebels on Jan. 24, when the Gators (12-12, 5-6 SEC) saw the Rebels hit two free throws in the 
final seconds to defeat UF 72-71 in 
Oxford, Mississippi.
Michael Frazier II, the leading 
scorer with 27 points in the first 
battle between the two teams, was ruled out for Thursday night’s re-
match with a high ankle sprain 
suffered in the first half of Florida’s loss to No. 1 Kentucky on Saturday.
Donovan chose to give the start-
ing nod to freshman Devin Rob-inson, who struggled against the Wildcats, committing three turn-overs in just six minutes of play.
However, Robinson capitalized 
on the opportunity at hand, as the 6-foot-8 Chesterfield, Virginia, na-tive scored a team-high-tying 14 points that included an array of alley-oops that helped push the Gators to a surprising 38-33 half-time lead.
Yet it was the Rebels (17-7, 8-3 
SEC) that hit the shot that mattered.
“He just made a good shot,” 
Robinson said about Moody’s game-winner. “We played good defense, he bombed it up and it just happened to go in. It happens. We played good defense, we didn’t break down. He just made a big play.”
With the team falling to .500, 
the Gators appear to be struggling to find a solution that will stop the bleeding before the season ends prematurely.
“We’re pretty close to rock bot-
tom or we’ve already hit it,” red-shirt junior Alex Murphy said. 
“I think we’ve played well the last two games, tonight and then 
against Kentucky. We competed and played together. We played 
hard, but both of those games 
didn’t go our way. There’s a fine line between winning and losing 
at this level. It comes down to ex-ecution or one loose ball, or one last 
possession and defending them on 
that last play. It hurts.”
Rebels sink last-second three-pointer to steal win from Gators
Devin Robinson scored 14 points in loss
LUIS TORRES
Alligator Writer @LFTorresIII
If there was one word that would 
describe what kind of player Nicole 
DeWitt, it would be versatile.
The Garden Grove, California, na-
tive was a top-10 recruit, who was recruited to the Florida softball pro-gram as an infielder, with her prima-ry position being second base. 
But there’s a certain All-American 
who plays second base on the UF team: Kelsey Stewart.
With DeWitt being so versatile, 
coach Tim Walton has the flexibility to move her around the field.
Walton seems to have found a 
home for DeWitt at a position that was arguably foreign to her, left field.
“We started 
the fall games and I was only playing third 
base,” DeWitt said. “And then after the fall games, we came back to prac-ticing and he (Walton) was like, ‘I’m going to throw you in left field’ and I was like ‘OK, why not, let’s try it.’”
Through six games so far this sea-
son, the moves seems to have paid Freshman showcasing 
versatility for Florida heading into home opener JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
 Logan Shore’s mindset heading into his 
freshman year with the UF baseball team 
was simple.
Anytime he stepped onto the mound, he 
focused on one thing.
“Work hard and throw strikes,” he said.Now a year older and a year more ex-
perienced, Shore is prepared to lead the Gators as the team’s Opening Day pitcher when No. 6 Florida begins its three-game series against Rhode Island at 7 p.m. at McKethan Stadium.
“I’ve come a long way,” Shore said. “I’m 
definitely ready and I’m definitely excited. You know, it’s a little different coming in your sophomore year. I have a full season 
under my belt and I’m looking forward to 
another season with this team.”
Shore has led Florida to more than his 
fair share of wins as a freshman.The Coon Rapids, Minnesota, native led 
the Gators with a 2.16 ERA and a 7-4 record 
in his first year of collegiate baseball and 
became the Friday-night starter in UF’s third weekend series of the year against Connecticut.
He held opponents to 
a .241 batting average and gave up just one home run in his rookie sea-son — a two-run blast by 
Kentucky third baseman 
Max Kuhn in the opening 
round of the Southeastern Conference Tournament.
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan has seen Shore 
progress and said his pitcher knows what is expected as the No. 1 pitcher in the rota-tion. 
But the eighth-year head coach said he 
does not want Shore to put too much pres-Sophomores shore up Florida’s 
season-opening pitching rotation
Shore
SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 15
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 15UF Sof tballAaron Albright / Alligator
Devin Robinson dunks during Florida’s 62-61 loss to Ole Miss on Thursday in the O’Connell Center. Rob -
inson scored 14 points and recorded a career-high seven rebounds in the loss to the Rebels.
Quotable
“This team will have a very, very, very, very hard time just to 
have a winning record.” 
 Billy Donovan, UF men’s basketball coach
14, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015
ENEISY RODRIGUEZ
Alligator Writer  @eneisyr29
The Florida women’s tennis 
team remains No. 2 following its 
outing at the ITA National Team 
Indoor Championship last week-
end.
And after going 2-1 in Char-
lottesville, Virginia — defeating two ranked teams in then-No. 13 Clemson and then-No. 10 Vir-ginia before falling to then-No. 3 North Carolina — UF saw its 
players get rewarded in the latest 
ITA rankings.
Freshman Josie Kuhlman 
highlighted the list, jumping six 
spots from No. 9 to No. 3, with an 
undefeated record in dual match singles (3-0) and an 11-4 overall mark versus ranked opponents. 
Joining her in the top 10 is fel-
low freshman Brooke Austin at the No .6 spot.
In doubles play, Florida duo 
Brooke Austin and Kourtney 
Keegan moved up to the No. 4 
spot.
“Between doubles and singles, 
I don’t think we have a weakness between the two. It’s just a mat-
ter of improving different areas,” Keegan said.
Coach Roland Thornqvist said 
he was very pleased with the 
doubles. 
He thinks it’s an area in which the team is much stronger this year, as opposed to the previous few years.
“I think it’s been hard for us 
in the past couple years in those big matches, to win, and to get to the finish line because we lost in doubles,” Thornqvist said. 
“We had very little hope in 
doubles.”The Gators’ next stop is Talla-
hassee, where they face off with No. 34 Florida State on Wednes-day at 4 p.m. 
Thornqvist thinks playing at 
Florida State is always a tough place to play because of the dis-like for the Gators.
Thornqvist mentioned that he 
is looking forward to the rest of the season and the different style of play with the switch to the out-doors courts.  
Heading into Southeastern 
Conference play in the upcoming weeks, the team is looking at ar-eas to improve for the rest of the 
season.
“Getting some consistency on 
our singles play primarily and 
continue to play fast in doubles but perhaps a little more consis-
tent tennis in singles, will be our 
tennis goals,” Thornqvist said. 
“And then next week is a mon-
ster week with three huge match-es in one week, so we have to be 
smart with our bodies. Obviously 
do a little bit of conditioning, a lot of stretching and flexibility and just continue with our path.”Gators holding steady in rankings following ITA National Indoors
Marley Boerema/ Alligator 
Members of the Florida women’s tennis team huddle prior to UF’s 4-0 win against Maryland on Jan. 25 
at the Ring Tennis Complex.
“Next week is a monster 
week with three huge 
matches in one week.” 
Roland Thornqvist
UF Tennis coachUF W omen’s T ennis
MEN’S GOLF
 THE GATORS FINISHED BOTH OF ITS LAST TWO TOURNAMENTS IN SECOND PLACE.
RYAN SUMMERS
Alligator Writer @RyanSummers18
Cold and windy conditions could make for an interest-
ing tournament this weekend at Florida’s Mark Bostick Golf Course.
The Gators are set to host the SunTrust Gator Invitation-
al on Saturday, their only home tournament of the season. 
The 54-hole tournament will feature three rounds in just 
two days.
The Florida men’s golf team is coming off of two straight 
second-place finishes in their last two tournaments and is 
hoping to carry their solid play into this weekend.
“I think leading up to this we’ve prepared the right way,” senior J.D. Tomlinson said. “We’re all practicing the right way, we’re getting to bed early, we’re really meshing right now and I think everyone is playing their best golf right now.”
Tomlinson is the only player that has appeared in every 
lineup this year for first year head coach J.C. Deacon. 
Deacon said Tomlinson has played a big role in the tran-
sition of the team this season.
“He’s been one of the guys that has really had to under-
stand what I expect from him and it’s a lot different from what was expected of him last year,” Deacon said. “I’ve re-ally leaned on him (Tomlinson) to be a leader and wanted him to kind of pay attention to that more than maybe he was used to doing. But he’s really starting to fall into that 
roll and enjoy it a little bit and he’s doing a good job, so I’m 
proud of him.”
Last year in this tournament, Tomlinson and fellow se-
nior Eric Banks finished tied for 18th at 7-over-par.
This will be the last time Banks and Tomlinson play in a 
tournament on home turf for the Gators.
“It probably depends on how I’m playing and how I 
played the last two and a half rounds, but I’m hoping to be in one of the final groups,” Tomlinson said when asked 
about his thoughts coming down the back nine on Sunday. 
“I’m hoping that we’re in position to win the tournament as a team and I’m in that position to win individually. So hopefully I’m feeling a little nervous.”
Junior A.J. Crouch, sophomore Ryan Orr and freshman 
Alejandro Tosti will be in the lineup for the Gators along with Banks and Tomlinson this weekend.
Redshirt sophomore Conor Richardson and freshman 
Ryan Celano will be competing as individuals.
“I think we should compete. I think we will compete. 
We just have to go through the right processes to get there and the first thing is embracing whatever conditions come our way,” Deacon said. “We’ve been playing good golf, we 
have a good lineup and I’m really happy with the progress 
these guys have made and I don’t see it slowing down this weekend.” UF preparing the right way heading into lone home tournament
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
J.D. Tomlinson picks up his bag during the 2014 SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 16, 2014, at UF’s Mark Bostick 
Golf Course.
off. 
DeWitt has started five games out in left 
field, but she’s made multiple appearances 
in the infield at second base and third base, 
where she started against Illinois State.
Even with her versatility, Walton doesn’t 
want DeWitt to become a player who can’t get 
comfortable with one position.  
 “You just want to make sure that we don’t 
develop Nicole into the jack of all trades and the master of none,” Walton said. “We got to 
make sure we get something mastered here at 
some point.”
In the batters box though, DeWitt has 
the ability to contribute significantly to the 
team. At Pacifica high school, DeWitt was a 
three-time MaxPreps All-American and was 
a three-time Pacifica High School Offensive 
MVP from 2012-2014.
Since arriving at UF, DeWitt has been 
known for working the count and getting on 
base by any means possible.
During fall practices, Walton said DeWitt 
was among the top players on the team in see-ing pitches per plate appearance, averaging five pitches per at bat.  
What made Walton most excited was that 
she was able to translate what she did in the fall to the first five games of the season at the USF Softball Classic in Tampa.
In Tampa, DeWitt got on base five times 
via a walk, which was second on the team be-hind Lauren Haeger, and was hit by a pitch on three different occasions easily the most on the team.    
Getting DeWitt out is no simple task.“Most people don’t recognize how hard 
that is for a freshman to do, but that takes experience,” Walton said. “It just takes a lot of time to be able to do that…she works the count, she gets hit, she gets a hit, gets a ball over the plate.
“I was very happy that she could keep her 
heartbeat normal and do those, very very positive.”  
DeWitt will now have the chance to show-
case her skills at home for the first time, as Florida will be opening up its home season today against N.C. State. DeWitt will go into the game with a .308 batting average, but she has a hefty .571 on base percentage, which is tied for fifth on the team for players who have played in more than two games.
DeWitt also ranks second on the team in 
runs scored with eight, which is one behind junior Taylor Schwarz. 
DeWitt has also stolen two bases in two at-
tempts, which also ranks second on the team behind Stewart, who is the leader with five.
DeWitt wants the fans to come out and 
show support for the team as they make their run at a second national title.
“I’m so excited, seeing our homes fans, I 
really want to see how crazy it gets out in the stands,” she said.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
GYMNASTICS
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
Rhonda Faehn is looking ahead, even though she wants 
her team to remain focused on the present.
With No. 4 Florida (4-1, 3-1 Southeastern Conference) host-
ing Missouri (5-3, 0-3 SEC) in the O’Connell Center tonight, the Gators are fully expected to handle their business. 
UF is 14-0 all-time against Missouri, including a whopping 
198.20-194.30 dual meet victory in Columbia last season.
And Missouri has been unimpressive this season - the Ti-
gers’ season high is 195.850, nearly a full point less than the 
Gators lowest-scoring competition of the year against the 
Crimson Tide.
With that in mind, this weekend is one of the best opportu-nities to potentially rest some key gymnasts before the stretch run of the season.
This is the point in the year where teams hope to have 
some semblance of an established lineup in each event, and with that in place, they can begin to rest gymnasts here and there to keep them healthy.
But Florida hasn’t had that luxury so far this season. Nu-
merous injuries have forced Faehn to juggle her lineups and make changes due to necessity.
“It’s definitely different this year,” Faehn said. “We don’t 
have the capability of resting athletes or changing lineups due to our choice.”
The remaining healthy gymnasts have been left to carry the 
load, particularly senior Kytra Hunter.
It was this time last year when Hunter was given a week 
off on floor, the only event she took off all season.
Now a year older, maintaining Hunter’s health is even 
more important, and Faehn is thinking long-term about her 
senior. Keeping Hunter’s legs fresh is a top priority, even at 
the possible expense of this week.
“That is a concern, and that’s something that I’m taking 
into consideration for possibly, maybe resting her this week-end,” she said. “I look back at the last two years and she com-
peted all four events almost every single meet but maybe one, 
and so if we can have that opportunity just to even let her rest on one, I would like to be able to take that chance.”
One of the determining factors will be freshman Kennedy 
Baker’s health following her concussion last week. 
Faehn said Baker passed the concussion protocol and 
would practice fully this week, but a determination on wheth-er she would compete Friday would be based on how Baker 
was feeling.
“I just wanna make sure we’re extra careful,” Faehn said, 
adding that she wasn’t sure what Baker’s event workload 
would be Friday if she did feel good enough to compete.
If Baker can give it a go Friday, the likelihood that Hunter 
would sit out an event would substantially increase.
When all of the injured talent returns for Florida, Faehn 
knows how good the team will be, and she said the gymnasts know that as well.
But at the same time, she said it can make it tough to not 
look ahead.
“I think that’s part of the challenge, that you have to con-
stantly stay in the present,” she said. “It’s something that I tell them after every single meet.”
With bigger meets ahead, though, Faehn isn’t allowed to 
solely focus on this week.
Her job is to make sure Florida is in the best position to win 
the title by season’s end.UF thinking about the present, Missouri
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Rhonda Faehn watches her gymnasts compete during Florida’s 197.60-196.95 win against Georgia on Jan. 30 in the O’Connell Center. One of Faehn’s challenges is man -
aging the workload of senior Kytra Hunter. 
SOFTBALL , from page 13Nicole DeWitt 
making most of 
opportunities 
UF eager to open season vs Rhode Island
sure on himself when he’s playing.
“If he just goes out there and 
does his thing, that’ll be enough,” 
O’Sullivan said. 
“He doesn’t need to be Superman. 
He just needs to be consistent the way he always is.”
The Gators will start a trio of soph-
omores on the mound to open the season, with Logan Shore getting the Friday-night start. 
Dane Dunning and A.J. Puk will 
start Saturday and Sunday, respec-
tively.
“Even though they’re sophomores 
and only been in the league once, 
they’re well-seasoned and it’s almost 
like they’ve been here for three years,” 
shortstop Richie Martin said. 
Puk started seven games and saw 
action on the mound in 20 games over-all in 2014, going 5-2 and striking out 46 batters while only giving up 18 walks.
Dunning, on the other hand, saw 
just 24 innings of action as a relief 
pitcher.
While the righty from Fleming Is-
land, Florida, had a limited role in his 
freshman year, O’Sullivan said he has 
been impressed with how Dunning 
has performed in practice.
“Dane Dunning, I’ll tell you what, 
he’s as good as anyone we’ve got,” O’Sullivan said. “He’s just got to do it 
when the lights go on.”And the rest of Florida’s roster will 
need to do the same.
With the majority of the team re-
turning from last year’s roster along 
with a nine-player freshman class, the 
Gators plan to make the most of their 
depth this season, which will be tested early.
With sophomore Peter Alonso 
(foot) and freshman Jeremy Vasquez (finger) sidelined for the beginning of the season, Florida has voids at both first base and right field.
Sophomore Ryan Larson and fresh-
man Logan Browning are possibilities at right field, while Puk will take the bulk of the time at first base for Flori-da’s first two games.
“Once we get (Alonso and Vasquez) 
back, I think it’ll give us even more versatility,” O’Sullivan said. “But I think it speaks volumes of our depth when your third first baseman is pret-
ty good.” BASEBALL , from page 13“We got to make sure we get 
something mastered here at some 
point.”
Tim Walton
UF softball coach
“If (Shore) just goes out there 
and does his thing, that’ll be 
enough. He doesn’t need to be 
Superman. He just needs to be 
consistent the way he always is.”
Kevin O’Sullivan
UF baseball coach“I think that’s part of the challenge, that you 
have to constantly stay in the present.”
Rhonda Faehn
UF Gymnastics coach16, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015
Today
Saturday
SundayTrack & Field:
Tyson Invitational — Fayette-
ville, Arkansas
Iowa State Classic — Ames, 
Iowa
Softball 
 vs. NC State at 6 p.m. — 
Katie Seashole Pressly 
stadiumGymnastics
vs. Missouri at 6:45 p.m. — 
O’Connell Center (free)
Baseball: 
vs. Rhode Island at 7 p.m. — 
McKethan Stadium
Track & Field: 
Tyson Invitational — Fayette-
ville, Arkansas
Iowa State Classic — Ames, 
Iowa
Men’s Golf: 
SunTrust Gator Invitational — 
Mark Bostick Golf Course
Lacrosse: 
vs. Michigan at 1 p.m. — 
Donald R. Dizney StadiumSoftball: 
 vs. NC State at 1:30 p.m. 
and vs. Iowa at 4 p.m. — Ka-
tie Seashole Pressly Stadium 
(free)
Baseball: 
 vs. Rhode Island at 4 p.m. — 
McKethan Stadium
Men’s Basketball:
@ Texas A&M at 6:30 p.m. — 
College Station, Texas
Men’s Golf: 
 SunTrust Gator Invitational 
— Mark Bostick Golf Course
Softball: 
vs. Iowa at noon and vs. NC 
State at 2:30 p.m. — Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium 
(free)Baseball:
  vs. Rhode Island at 12:30 
p.m. — McKethan Stadium 
Women’s Basketball: 
@Mississippi State at 4 p.m. 
— Starkville, MississippiSTAFF REPORT
The Florida women’s basketball 
team secured its ﬁ  rst win over a 
ranked opponent this season, de-
feating No. 24 Georgia 51-48 in Ath-
ens on Thursday night.
Florida  (12-12, 4-7 Southeastern 
Conference) had a rough going in 
the ﬁ  rst half, trailing 27-19 heading 
into the break after going just 7-of-27 from the ﬁ  eld.
But the 
Gators went 
on a game-
changing run in the closing minutes of 
the second half to upset the Bull-dogs (17-8, 5-7 SEC). 
With Georgia up 45-36, the Gators 
went on a shocking 13-0 scoring run that saw the Bulldogs fail to score 
for more than four minutes.
The Bulldogs’ Erika Ford nailed a 
three with two seconds remaining to 
stop the bleeding, cutting Florida’s 
lead to 49-48. 
With Georgia forced to foul, 
Carlie Needles stepped up and 
calmly hit two free throws to clinch the comeback and secure Florida’s 
third SEC road victory. Needles ﬁ  n-
ished the game with 10 points in 34 minutes of action.
Cassie Peoples scored a team-
high 11 points, all in the second half, 
as the redshirt junior used a pair of 
three-pointers in that critical scoring 
stretch to push Florida to a victory that seemed impossible as the sec-ond half wound down.
Florida continues its swing of 
road games against ranked op-ponents when the Gators travel to Starkville, Mississippi, on Sunday to 
take on No. 13 Mississippi State.UF upsets ranked Georgia on the road
UF W omen’s 
Bask etball
Marley Boerema / Alligator
Carlie Needles looks to pass the ball during Florida’s 68-52 loss to 
Missouri on Jan. 29 in the O’Connell Center.
UF Sports In Action