VOLUME 109 ISSUE 97 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Professor inducted into agricultural hall of fame 
He worked at UF for 37 years, pg. 5.  
SwampCon: Home of Daleks and Trekkies alike
View the annual convention photos on pg 3 and the gallery online. City Commission candidates dicuss GRU 
rates, other platform points
College Democrats sponsored the debate, pg. 5 
69/51
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13The Florida 
men’s basketball 
team was one of 
three UF teams that 
competed at home 
this weekend. See the 
photo gallery of the 
action on page 15.
Gabrielle Calise / Alligator 
Freestylin’
Bunduki “Duke” Ramadan, a 22-year-old UF economics senior, performs at The Jam on Friday night during the Swamp Records Showcase 2015. Student Government Productions put on the free event, which featured 16 acts.
 WATCH OUT FOR SIGNS.
GLENN KENNELLY
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Florida Department of 
Health issued a 60-day rabies alert 
for Alachua County on Friday after a dog tested positive for the dis-
ease.
The department has urged any-
one who has come in contact with 
the  30-pound, black-and-white bull terrier in the last three weeks to come forward immediately.  The terrier lives at Gateway Farms tree farm, located at 22413 NW 227th 
Drive in High Springs.
The dog was reported positive 
for rabies on Jan. 30. Its owner, a 
nursery owner, did not vaccinate the dog, according to a press re-lease from county health depart-ment.“Having a domestic animal test 
positive for rabies is extremely rare,” said Anthony Dennis, the environmental health director for the health department. “But when it happens, we like to raise people’s awareness that this occurred, also kind of referencing the area.”Centering on the affected prop-
erty, the alert boundaries span north to the Santa Fe River, south to County Road 236, east to North-west Old Bellamy Road and west to U.S. Highway 41, according to the department.
One dog causes rabies alert for Alachua County
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
This election season, UF’s two political par-
ties were invited to three debates, but only one will feature both parties. 
UF Pride Student Union and Women’s Stu-
dent Association, as well as Asian American 
Student Union planned two separate debates 
for the ﬁ  rst time and asked Swamp Party and Access Party to participate. Swamp declined both invitations, citing time conﬂ  icts, while Ac-cess accepted both. 
Pride and WSA planned their debate for to-
day, but it was canceled on Saturday because Swamp Party had a time conﬂ  ict, said PSU Pres-ident Collin Vernay. 
Swamp Party President and spokesman 
Ricky Salabarria said Joseph Michaels and Tia Smart, Swamp Party Student Body presidential and vice presidential candidates, had an exam during the debate. PSU chose to cancel the de-bate, rather than hosting it with only Access. 
“We don’t want, as an organization, to ap-
pear too partisan,” Vernay said. 
Gaby Larios, external vice president of Pride, 
said she was upset the debate was canceled.
“I’m disappointed that we’re not having a 
debate to specially address issues pertinent to the LGBTQ+ community because we’ve been historically left out of Student Government,” she said. “By not having a debate, our voices are continued to be silenced.”
Another student organization, AASU, or-
ganized a debate for both parties for Thursday 
at 6:30 p.m. in the Computer and Science Engi-
neering Building in Room A101.
On Saturday, Swamp declined to attend this 
debate because of time conﬂ  icts, said AASU President Stephanie Wong, but Access will be present.
In an email to Wong, Salabarria mentioned 
the time conﬂ  icts, but said Swamp plans on at-Swamp Party 
declines two 
debate invites
CRIME
EMILY COCHRANE 
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested an Oregon 
man Friday night on charges of possession 
of counterfeit money after he reportedly used fake $20 bills at two Gainesville res-taurants.
At about 9:30 p.m. Friday, Adrian Mar-
tushev, 21, attempted to purchase two drinks at Maude’s Classic Cafe and then a popsicle at The Hyppo Gourmet Ice Cream Pops with two counterfeit $20 bills, according to a police report. When police saw him leaving The Hyppo, they told him to stop, but Martu-shev ran away, accord-ing to the report. He 
was tackled by an ofﬁ  -
cer, causing him to “in-voluntarily evacuate his bladder,” Gainesville 
Police spokesman Ofﬁ  -cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. 
It wasn’t the ﬁ  rst time Martushev had 
tried to pay with counterfeit money, said 
Micah Jameson, a 25-year-old employee 
at the Starbucks in Union Street Station. He tried to use a fake $20 at the Starbucks about two weeks earlier.
“There was no water seal, it had a slight 
white line on the right side, and the bill had curved in on itself. You could normal-ly see abrasions, but I didn’t see any,” said Jameson. “The best part was, he asked me why I thought it was fake.”
Jameson said he initially didn’t think 
anything of the incident, but he soon heard about Relish, Maude’s and other business-es receiving counterfeit bills.
He chased Martushev with police af-
Oregon man arrested with counterfeit billsSEE RABIES, PAGE 4
SEE SG, PAGE 4
SEE COUNTERFEIT, PAGE 4Martushev
News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 97 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY
SUNNY
57/30SUNNY
71/35SUNNY
67/59PARTLY 
CLOUDY
67/40RAIN
69/51
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. cinemaverde.org/.
Valentines for Veterans Spirit 
of America, Gainesville 
Civic Chorus Master Chorale
Music is the poetry of the air. 
Its use has made a powerful impact during times of war; it bolstered those serving on the front lines as well as those waiting at home. Come hear songs that helped those in battle or eulogized those who passed in the name of free-
dom. Join us in saluting our 
veterans in song Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at the First United Methodist Church, located at 419 NE First St. For more information, visit www.GCChorus.org.
‘A T. rex Named Sue’ Loves 
You: A Valentine’s Night at the MuseumSpend Valentine’s evening at the Florida Museum of Natural History playing trivia games with your fa-vorite Tyrannosaurus rex named Sue. The program fee includes admission to “A 
T. rex Named Sue” and par-
ticipation in the museum’s Trivia Night. The museum is open from 6 to 10 p.m. for this event; trivia begins at 7:30 p.m. Paid upon entry to the Florida Museum, the program fee is $10 per per-son or $15 per couple and 
free for museum members 
and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. “A Valentine’s Night at the Museum” is for adults only (ages 18 and up). Preregistration is required. For more information, call 352-273-2061.
Artist in the Round at the 
Matheson History MuseumBecome a part of music his-tory. Learn how to become a better writer and hear musi-cal masterpieces with a lesson and presentation by the Dixie Desperados on Feb. 19 from 6 to 8 p.m. A similar event will 
be March 12 at the same time, 
featuring a lesson and presen-tation by Stan Lynch, the for-mer drummer of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers.
Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: 
Early Roots of Rock and RollHear history come to life Feb. 
26 with a multimedia pre-
sentation by the chairman of the Yale University Music Department entitled “Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: Early Roots of Rock and Roll.” This lecture, running from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Matheson Museum, examines how 
the hokum blues of the late 
1920s were the basis for well-known musical sensations of the 1950s. Admission is free.
Be a Game Changer Video WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Bridging the Gap Project
The Counseling and Wellness Center’s AWARE (Awareness Wellness Ambassadors Reaching Everyone) will be ta-
bling today and Tuesday from 
11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas as well as display-ing images of bridges; often-times, there is a negative con-notation between suicide and bridges. Their intention with this event is to reframe that idea to bridging the gap between 
suicide and seeking help/men-
tal health services. They will have ambassadors and coun-selors presenting information on the myths/facts of suicide so as to better prepare students to note the signs of suicide and to intervene, all while providing information on local resources.
Keep Hope Alive: A Suicide 
Awareness VigilFor its third year, Keep Hope Alive will bring together musi-cal guests, spoken-word artists and a panel of mental health professionals and advocates to discuss what is an all-too-
pervasive and often unspoken 
issue: suicide. It will be held Wednesday from 6:15 to 8 p.m. in the Pugh Hall Ocora. Concluding with a candle-light vigil on the Plaza of the Americas, this event will pro-vide anyone and everyone an opportunity to honor the lives 
lost to suicide each year and 
to continue working to keep hope alive. For more infor-mation, go to facebook.com/events/1589946984550698/.
Cupid’s Consent Event
Attend Cupid’s Consent Event on Thursday from 11 a.m. 
to 2 p.m. on the Plaza of the 
Americas. There will be rela-tionship-building games and activities. Visit all the booths to collect prizes, including a free T-shirt. Visitors can also get a picture taken with Cupid. Like the Facebook.com/STRIVEUF page or go to gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.
edu/strive for more informa-
tion.
Screening of ‘Girl Rising’
From Academy Award-nominated director Richard E. Robbins, “Girl Rising” journeys around the globe to witness the strength of the human spirit 
and the power of education to 
change the world. Viewers get to know nine unforgettable girls living in the developing world — ordinary girls who confront tremendous chal-lenges and overcome nearly impossible odds to pursue their dreams. A discussion will fol-
low the screening Thursday at 3 
p.m. at the International Center.
Cinema Verde seeks vendors
The sixth annual Cinema Verde Environmental Film and Arts Festival is seeking environmen-tally conscious vendors for its eco-fair taking place Saturday 
at the Paramount Plaza Hotel. 
Please contact Trish@cine-maverde.org.  For more infor-mation about the festival visit Contest
STRIVE at GatorWell, the 
Women’s Student Association and Student Government’s Health Affairs Cabinet are ex-cited to unveil our “Be a Game Changer” video contest. Help educate UF on how to inter-vene to end sexual violence. What better way to teach than 
by doing? So show us your best 
bystander scenarios in a public service announcement video format and you could win up to $550 in UF Bookstore gift cards. Deadline for submission is March 1. For official rules and eligibility, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
Bottom Up Sex Ed!
Registration is now open for Yes Means Yes, an interdisci-plinary, interactive, non-credit, five week, student-facilitated seminar that encourages mean-ingful, engaging discussions on consent and sexuality. Make 
campus safer, have dinner on 
Gatorwell and increase sexual satisfaction. Meets Thursday evenings March 12 through April 9 from 6:30 to 8 p.m. For more information and to reg-ister, go to gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqMONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
SwampCon: Home to Daleks and Trekkies alike
Nicole Gomez (Left and Top) and Gabreille Calise (Right)
Left: Aurora Jackson performs as part of the 
SwampCon Drag Show in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Saturday night. The drag show was one of Saturday’s main events. 
Top: Camille Armstrong, 21, of San Antonio, Flori-
da, and Kyle Schneider, a 21-year-old UF mechani-cal engineering senior, play King of Tokyo, a board game, in the Arredondo Café during SwampCon. 
Right: A Dalek, a creature from the British televi-
sion program “Doctor Who,” roams through the Reitz Union on Saturday during SwampCon. The convention featured participants dressed up as characters from several ﬁ  ctional series. 
KRISTINA MANUS
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gainesville community 
gathered Sunday afternoon for 
the dedication ceremony of a 
playground at Trinity United Methodist Church that is accessi-
ble to children with and without 
disabilities.
The playground, at 4000 NW 
53rd Ave., meets the standards of the Americans with Disabili-ties Act of 1990, with things like 
mulch, wheelchair accessible 
areas and AstroTurf, said Kelly Ping, spokeswoman for Trinity 
United Methodist Church.
“We don’t want to leave any-
one out,” said the Rev. Esther Ro-driguez, associate pastor for the 
church.
The playground is landscaped 
to be wheelchair-accessible, with engineered mulch that meets ADA standards, and it also has a ramp that allows wheelchairs to move up into the play area.
It also offers equipment such 
as a gondola where people in wheelchairs travel up a ramp and swing; ground-level features like 
a spinning ship’s wheel; and in-
struments around the park like bongo drums.
The upper playground area 
also has AstroTurf for beginning walkers, so it does not hurt if 
they fall, Ping said.
The concept for the play-
ground began when Jenn Garrett, a member of the building com-
mittee at Trinity United Method-ist Church and a parent whose children also go to the church, re-alized there were no playgrounds 
in North Central Florida accessi-
ble to people of all ability levels. 
“We needed to come up with 
equipment that would make all children of all abilities feel in-cluded, and that’s why the play-
ground is really an inclusive 
playground in addition to being accessible,” Garrett said.
The playground took about 
three years to design and build, and it was completely funded by 
donors, Garrett said. The play-
ground is open to the public dur-ing the day.
“It’s just wonderful to have 
this safe and open place where my kids can go and feel comfort-
able around other children that 
may or may not have a disability and be able to play with them,” 
Garrett said.4, ALLIGATOR � MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015
Kristie Manus / Alligator 
Ryan, 6, rides in a wheelchair on the Trinity United Methodist Church playground Sunday afternoon. 
Though he was not disabled himself, the wheelchair allowed Ryan to test the park’s accessibility for wheelchair users.
Gainesville’s first playground for 
children with disabilities unveiled 
 IT’S HOSTED BY AWARE.
PRESLIE MARTIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can become more 
aware of mental health issues 
on campus this week.
Today begins Suicide 
Awareness Week, three days 
of events hosted by AWARE, 
the UF Counseling and Well-ness Center’s ambassador pro-gram, to call attention to mental health and reduce its stigma.
Collin Vernay, AWARE co-
ordinator and UF psychology and sociology senior, said this is his first Suicide Awareness 
Week since he began his three-
year involvement with the Counseling and Wellness Cen-ter. The goal for the week is to discuss mental health and share available resources, Vernay, 21, said.  
Today and Tuesday, 
AWARE will host Bridging the 
Gap on the Plaza of the Ameri-
cas, using images of bridges to create awareness about mental health, physically connecting thoughts of suicide and seeking help.  
“It’s important that people 
who are suicidal or through 
crisis, that we empathize with 
them, we don’t judge them; we don’t try to minimize their is-sues because what they’re feel-ing is true,” said Aleksandra Gasparova, AWARE secretori-an and UF neuroscience senior.
The week continues with 
Keep Hope Alive, a suicide 
awareness panel, at 6:15 p.m. 
Wednesday in Pugh Hall Oco-ra. The panel will include the 
former director of the Alachua 
County Crisis Center and the mother of a suicide victim.
Gasparova, 21, said the vigil 
will provide a space for friends and family of suicide victims, those struggling with thoughts of suicide and others who hope to understand the issue.
It will be an opportunity 
to learn, educate and possibly save a life.Suicide Awareness 
Week starts today
People advised of signs
Paul Myers, administrator of 
the county health department, 
said if he finds another case within the 60-day time frame of the alert, he will issue a rabies quarantine, 
which restricts the movement of all 
animals in and out of the area.
“For the next 60 days it is really 
a heightened awareness, but we should always be cognizant that rabies is among us,” Myers said.                
Dennis said it is extremely im-
portant to find anyone who might have been exposed. The depart-
ment noticed workers for the tree 
farm are also employed elsewhere, so it has posted advisories for those other locations. 
“We know with dogs, cats and horses what the incubation period is,” Dennis said. “And typically, 
when they have rabies, they can be 
spreading the virus for essentially five days, but we double the win-dow to 10 days.”
“If a domestic animal gets ex-
posed, we need to make sure that it is either put under quarantine, or it is euthanized and tested because we need to make sure that it does 
not develop rabies and then, you 
know, expose someone else, and then we’ve got a problem,” Dennis said.
The Florida Department of 
Health in Alachua County advises people who are concerned about exposure to rabies to seek medical attention and report it by contact-
ing the department at 352-334-7930.RABIES , from page 1
Police: He tried to use bills at Maude’s Classic Cafe, The Hyppo
ter seeing him run behind Liquid Ginger on 
Southeast Fourth Avenue. 
Martushev’s wallet had ten additional 
counterfeit $20 bills, one real $20 bill and a Florida driver’s license that was not his, ac-
cording to the report. The manager of The Hyppo, Brent Smith, 
said because the shop had received several 
counterfeit bills in the past three weeks, he didn’t think Martushev worked alone.
“If it’s just one person, he’s done a very 
good job of distributing the bills,” Smith said. 
Tobe Terrell, a custodian, found a stack of 
$20 bills in Martushev’s room in the Zen Cen-ter and Hostel. He said in the three months 
Martushev paid to live at the hostel, he never 
received a fake bill — just $5 and $10 in cash.
Terrell said Martushev was strange and 
rarely came out of his room to speak to anyone during the times he was there.
“We did speculate, but nobody had any 
idea what in the world he was up to,” Terrell said. “All of a sudden, there’s seven police of-
ficers chasing him. He was a guy you could 
never get to know.” 
Police took Martushev to the Alachua 
County Jail on charges of possessing a false bill, uttering a false bill, possessing a false driver’s license and resisting arrest. As of press time, he is being held in lieu of a $22,500 bond.COUNTERFEIT , from page 1
Swamp only attending Freshman Leadership Council’s debate
tending the Freshman Leadership Council debate. 
“We want to be fair to every or-
ganization,” Salabarria said. He said the party consulted with 
the UF Supervisor of Elections, Hans Rojas, about the debates, and Rojas recommended only the FLC debate.
Rojas said his opinion is just a 
recommendation that parties are not obligated to follow.
“I only support the SG-spon-
sored debate,” Rojas said.
Access Party President Matthew 
Hoeck said the party still plans to at-tend the AASU debate even though Swamp Party declined.
“How can you claim to repre-
sent so many student organizations and not take the time to have a de-bate where their concerns are ad-dressed?” Hoeck said. The remaining debate, hosted by 
Freshman Leadership Council, will be held at 6 p.m. in the University Auditorium on Feb. 17. Doors open at 5:30 p.m., and everyone is wel-come.
SG , from page 1“We don’t want to leave 
anyone out.” 
Rev. Esther Rodriguez
Trinity United Methodist Church 
associate pastor RATES ARE $5 FOR 15 MINUTE 
TUTORING SESSIONS.
RYANN FALKE
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new iOS app launching in March will make tu-
toring easier by ﬁ  nding nearby student tutors.   
UF alumnus Samyr Qureshi is leading the de-
velopment of an on-demand, peer-to-peer, college-
tutoring app called Knack.
The 22-year-old originally came up with the idea 
of a peer-learning marketplace when he tried to learn picking patterns for a new song on his guitar.
“I knew there had to be somebody in my city that 
could probably give me some pointers and help me with the picking technique,” he said. “Then I thought, ‘How great would it be to have someone come over and help me with whatever it is I want to learn?’”
Knack is designed to recommend tutors based on 
three things: proximity, social connections and user reviews.
On the app, students select the tutor, time and 
location from the list of designated KnackSpaces, whether it is on or off campus. These KnackSpaces were designed with safety in mind and are usually in areas with cameras.
Once everything is established, the tutor will then 
be notiﬁ  ed of the request and will be prompted to 
agree.
“Our team has a knack for design and we work to 
ensure the app is as simple and user friendly as pos-
sible,” he said.
Students also have the option to be the tutor. Any 
student who receives a B-plus in a course can be a tutor. Additionally, any student enrolled in a course who receives an A on the ﬁ  rst major exam can tutor others in that same course.
To become a tutor, students must make a proﬁ  le, 
select a class and time to tutor and provide proof of proﬁ  ciency by uploading a picture of test grades or transcripts, Qureshi said.
Students also earn money by tutoring. Prices are 
ﬁ  xed at $5 for 15 minutes, and there is no time limit to a session. After the selected time expires, the money automatically transfers into the tutor’s account, said Dennis Hansen, co-founder of Knack.
Sharing the tutoring experience is essential to 
Knacks’ success. After each tutoring session, students are required to rate their tutor out of a 5-star system.
“Empowering one another to share skills and abil-
ities almost seems like utopian in my mind,” Hansen said. “Cutting out large proﬁ  table institutions and relying on each other is more personable and miti-gates the risk of being taken advantage of by a cor-poration.”HUNTER WILLIAMSON and ARIANA 
FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writers hwilliamson@alligator.org
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
The at-large and District 1 candidates 
for Gainesville City Commission talked 
about their platforms on campus Friday.
The UF College Democrats hosted the 
two-hour panel in Pugh Hall for the candi-dates to speak. About 40 people attended the event.   
At-large candidates represent the city 
as a whole rather than individual districts. These candidates are Harvey Budd, Jay Curtis, Adrian Hayes-Santos and Donald Shepherd Sr.
District 1, the largest of the four dis-
tricts in Gainesville, spans parts east of campus and northeast Gainesville. These candidates are Charles Edward Goston, 
Scherwin Henry, Yvonne Hinson-Rawls, 
Lucas Jewell and Chris Weaver.  
At-large candidates spoke ﬁ  rst, starting 
with Curtis, a husband and father of two who has lived in Gainesville for more than 
15 years.
Curtis said he wants to create more 
jobs and lower GRU rates. He also said he 
wants to invest in accessible transporta-
tion for the city and protect the environ-ment.
GRU rates were a common theme 
among candidates’ platforms, with at-large candidate Budd and District 1 can-didates Jewell and Weaver also aiming to 
lower rates.
Weaver said he is the only candidate 
with the ﬁ  nancial background and po-litical strategy necessary to cut down the rates, which he said are some of the high-est in the state.
Hayes-Santos, a UF alumnus, said he 
wishes to create more jobs by introducing an innovation-based economy utilizing the city’s technological and entrepreneur-ial resources.
Xiahan Tang, a 22-year-old UF statistics 
senior, said he liked all the at-large can-didates except for Sheperd because of his political afﬁ  liation with the Republican 
party.
“I feel they know the topics very well,” 
he said, adding that he thinks they have 
good ideas to improve Gainesville. But he has not decided who to vote for.
Shepherd and Hinson-Rawls both said 
they want to address wages.
Goston said he’s running to increase 
the quality of life for the residents of east 
Gainesville who have been left behind.
Henry said he will work with fair 
grounds and the airport area to increase 
the economy.
On Tuesday, UF College Democrats 
will vote to endorse one candidate. Col-lege Democrat President Amir Ahmadia-vin said the organization will then work with and endorse the nominated candi-
date.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Ariana Figueroa / Alligator Staff
From left: Scherwin Henry, Lucas Jewell and Chris Weaver, all candidates for city com-
missioner for District 1, speak to an audience at an open forum event hosted by UF College Democrats in Pugh Hall on Friday night.
ELECTIONSCity commission candidates discuss GRU rates, other platforms
ANSLEY PENTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alvin Warnick knows the 
grades of every student he taught 
in his 37 years at UF — he kept the roll books.
The 94-year-old  will be induct-
ed into the Florida Agricultural Hall of Fame on Tuesday.  The cer-emony will be held at the Florida State Fairgrounds in Tampa at 7 p.m.
Warnick will 
be awarded, in large part, for increasing the 
number of cows that are birth-ing calves every year from 50 percent to more than 80 percent. 
To be considered proﬁ  table, cows must birth at least one calf per year.  
The recognition is the most 
prestigious award anyone in-volved in Florida agriculture can earn, said Mike Fields, professor emeritus of reproductive physiol-ogy at UF. Fields was a student of 
Warnick’s in the 1960s.
“He’s a wonderful teacher,” 
Fields said. “I thought I was going 
to be a veterinarian, and I took his course in reproduction. And it just lit my ﬁ  re. That’s what I made a ca-reer out of.”
Warnick taught at UF from 
1953 to 1990, and he continues to 
work with animal science students and researchers.
Warnick said he is proud to be 
in the hall of fame.
“I don’t think I could have a 
higher honor, in any way, than 
that,” he said.
His passion for agriculture 
stems from his days on his family’s Utah farm, he said.  Warnick’s fa-ther was “a true western cowboy” who knew a lot about livestock.  
Warnick studied animal scienc-
es at Utah State University where 
he earned his bachelor’s degree. 
Before graduating, he was offered a scholarship to the University of Wisconsin but decided to join the Eighth Air Force and ﬁ  ght in World War II.
When he came home, Warnick 
said he had the decision to work on his family farm or pursue a 
master’s degree.
“I loved the farm, but I also had 
this opportunity to go to graduate 
school in Wisconsin, which I did,” he said.  “And that’s how I got started in research.”
While researching there he met 
his wife, who was a lab technician.
“That was probably more im-
portant than the degrees I got there.”
Although Warnick said he is 
grateful for his nomination to the hall of fame, he doesn’t believe he should be the only person given the award.
“I’m very humbled by it, and 
I’m not sure the credit goes to me,” 
he said. “It should go to my stu-
dents and colleagues.”Professor inducted into 
agricultural hall of fameUF alumnus develops peer-tutoring app, expected to launch in March
Warnick
Image courtesy of KnackReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Decline of debate 
invitations opposes
SG vision
“Visibility and transparency are top priorities for SG.”
So said Student Government’s director of external af-
fairs in a letter to the editor that ran in these pages last 
week.
While we want to believe his statement, conditions on the 
ground make it seem like a hollow PR gambit.
Swamp Party declined invitations to debates organized by 
two prominent student organizations and have agreed only to 
participate in the one sponsored by SG.
The first, sponsored by Pride Student Union and Women’s 
Student Association, was supposed to happen today. The groups invited members of both Access Party and Swamp Party to the event. Swamp dropped out of this debate because the candidates for president and vice president have exam con-
flicts. That’s perfectly understandable. Heavy involvement may 
sometimes mask it, but we’re all here for school. We get that.
Whatever — it’s one debate, right?Except, Swamp declined to participate in another one as well, 
which was sponsored by Asian American Student Union and planned for Thursday. 
In the email to AASU President Stephanie Wong in which 
he declined the event on Swamp Party’s behalf, President and spokesman Ricky Salabarria originally said there were time con-
flicts again. 
But then he touted the move as a gesture of fairness. In order 
“to not have to choose” which student organization-sponsored 
debates the party participates in, its candidates will only appear at one: the SG-sponsored debate through the Freshman Leader-ship Council. 
To be fair, Hans Rojas, SG Supervisor of Elections, has rec-
ommended that parties only participate in the SG-sponsored debate. He said this as the leader of an impartial government 
body, but in an email to the Alligator he specified that “it is up to 
the full discretion of the political parties themselves to engage in any debates that they see fit.”
Is Swamp just falling in line with SG’s example of not playing 
favorites? Does it only want to participate in a debate run by an SG it effectively controls? Is this retaliation for Wong’s vocal dis-approval of last week’s nomination of a former Swamp majority leader as a replacement election commissioner?
Whatever the motive, these decisions are not just shady — 
they’re a slap in the face to the very groups Swamp claims it strives to represent. 
Less than a week ago, we quoted a student who chose to 
slate with Swamp because she felt the party would represent her queer and Asian-American identities. Swamp and its predeces-sors have long histories of co-opting student organizations for minorities to secure votes and Senate seats, then cutting them loose when they’ve served their purposes.
We can imagine the students on Swamp’s executive ticket 
have intensely packed schedules — yet we’d also imagine stu-dent-sponsored debates are exactly the kind of events they’d be striving to participate in.
65 TOTAL VOTES25% Monkeys
75% Manatees
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgFriday’s question: Manatees or 
monkeys?Today’s question: Did you watch “The Walking Dead” or 
the Grammys last night?What ever happened to Michael Sam?
I was watching the NFL Draft in May when history was made.
I smiled when Michael Sam, the NFL’s first open-
ly gay draft prospect, kissed his longtime boyfriend on national television after learning he was selected by the St. Louis Rams in the seventh-round draft pick.
The networks, the NFL and the fans — even on op-
posing teams — could not deny the beautiful nature of that moment when a young athlete from the University of Missouri got the opportunity to be himself and play the game he loves.
Fast forward nine months and that picture-perfect 
scene has drastically changed. He vacationed in Europe in January and is no longer on an NFL roster or on a practice squad. 
After drafting him, the St. Louis Rams cut Sam from 
their roster in August. The Dallas Cowboys made a move to sign him to their practice squad a few days later only to cut him in October. No other NFL team has plucked Sam out of the free-agent pool since.
Sam has talent as a defensive end. In four preseason 
games with the Rams, the rookie managed to sack three opposing quarterbacks, including fellow rookie Johnny Manziel. To be selected in any round of the NFL draft is an honor, and, for Sam, his scrappy play and daunting defensive presence during his college career made him a wise investment for the Rams’ organization.
So why let him go?An argument could be made that Sam’s personal life 
made bigger headlines than his professional one. “The kiss seen around the world” put Sam on the map for reasons other than football. The St. Louis Rams had a headline-making draft selection knocking at their door, and maybe they couldn’t handle the press and reporters that came with Sam.
We have not seen Sam play in a regular season game, 
however, so we are forced to believe the Rams and the Cowboys when those organiza-tions said Sam was simply not good enough. It would be un-fair to call these organizations biased or discriminatory when 
they were the only teams to take a chance on Sam when every other team played it safe.
Another argument could be made that Sam was not 
ready to become the voice of change. At only 25 years old, Sam has faced his fair share of adversity.
Coming out to his teammates in college was one 
thing, but looking for acceptance in the NFL is another matter entirely. He has shown grace in the midst of re-cent setbacks, and he certainly has the maturity to make it in professional football. 
But does he have the drive? Can he be Michael Sam, 
the defensive end, on the field while also being Michael Sam, voice of change, off of it?
The NFL is not ready for Michael Sam. The NFL is 
still a testosterone-dominated, macho-professional sports league that does not have the capability of chang-ing its ways for one brave soul. Not yet, anyway.
Sam has said he believes there are others like him al-
ready in the league. I agree. Hopefully, with Sam lead-ing the charge, these athletes will feel more comfort-able expressing who they really are to their teammates, coaches and fans. He has set a precedent for others to follow while standing up for himself and what he be-lieves in.
I am confident that Sam is just the beginning. He 
might make his way back to the league someday, but right now, at this moment in 2015, the NFL is just not prepared to bear the burden of a trailblazer.
Michael Sam, voice of change, will have to wait a 
little longer to be heard. 
Erica Brown is a UF journalism junior. Her column ap-
pears on Mondays. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORErica Brown
opinions@alligator.org MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 7In the Florida House last week, a bill 
was manufactured by Republican Frank Artiles that gives a whole new meaning 
to discrimination. HB 583, entitled “Single-Sex Public Facilities,” would make it so a person must use a public facility that aligns with the sex they were assigned at birth. 
The summary of the bill reads that the 
“use of single-sex facilities be restricted to 
persons of the sex for which facility is des-ignated” and “prohibits knowingly and will-fully entering single-sex public facility des-ignated for or restricted to persons of other biological sex.” 
Essentially, this bill makes it so that trans-
gender people cannot use the bathroom in public spaces. Even people who have had sex reassignment surgery cannot use the appro-priate restroom because they must use the facility that corresponds with their biological sex at birth.
Same-sex marriage has been legal in 
Florida for more than one month now, so 
this bill comes at a time when progress is being made for the LGBT community.  
Artiles would like to see us move back-
ward. He argues his bill is meant for public safety because anti-discrimination ordi-nances in Florida have allowed for a “giant loophole for criminals, sexual deviants and 
sexual predators to walk into a shower, a 
woman’s locker room under the cover of law.” Artiles is extremely misguided in his analysis of these loopholes, as very few 
people — especially those in the transgen-
der community — use these ordinances to commit sexual crimes.
In fact, violence is a daily struggle for 
transgender people, especially youths. 
A 2011 survey by the National Center for 
Transgender Equality found that 78 per-cent of K-12 transgender individuals faced harassment at some point in their lives and, 
even more heartbreaking, that 35 percent 
had experienced physical assault. If any-one should be concerned about criminals using these ordinances to commit violence, it should be the transgender community. 
Artiles is basically implying that trans-
gendered people tend to be perverts who will use their situation to perpetrate acts of sexual violence, which is outrageously 
wrong. Transgender does not equate to be-ing a sexual predator. Everyone agrees that sexual predators — whether heterosexual, 
homosexual, transgender or anything else in between — should be locked up and left to rot in prison.
The bill goes on to expand that public 
facilities include any place in schools or 
businesses. This bill would put an incred-
ible burden on businesses to monitor bath-rooms and deny transgender employees entrance into the bathroom. 
Tony Lima, executive director of Safe-
guarding American Values for Everyone — or SAVE — said HB 583 would “force busi-nesses to discriminate against their own employees and customers, and invalidate 
nondiscrimination policies that already ex-
ist on the local level.” If transgender people used the bathroom in a public space, they could be charged with a misdemeanor of 
the first degree and face civil action. This 
could mean fines, up to one year in prison and extravagant legal fees — all because someone had to pee.
Regardless of your personal feelings 
toward the LGBT community, this legisla-tion should worry you and everyone else. It stands against everything we hold dear about living in America and in Florida. 
America should be a place where no one is 
discriminated against, and everyone is free to do whatever he or she pleases so long as it does not harm others. 
The Constitution of the State of Florida 
preamble says that the state will “guaran-tee equal civil and political rights to all,” and if we truly believe in that, a bill like HB 583 must be called out by everyone and 
fought against. 
As a society, we have made great strides 
toward more tolerance and acceptance of 
those who are perceived to be different. 
Florida is such a great state to live in be-
cause we are a melting pot that encourages diversity, and that is a tradition that must live on.
Nick Eagle is a UF economics and political 
science senior. His column appears on Mon-days.New single-sex restroom bill in 
Florida House discriminatoryColumn
Life is full of unexpected hap-
penings, and many people have been quoted at the end 
of their lives about the things they regret not doing. Wouldn’t you love to know how much life we have left? It’s amazing — or terrifying, depend-
ing on where you stand — that sci-
ence is actually getting close to being able to determine how long each of us will live. 
Genetics research has made huge 
leaps since the human genome was mapped out more than a decade ago, and new advances are made every day in understanding how our bodies 
work and just how much DNA con-
trols our lives. A study by Brigham Young University biologist Jonathan Alder has recently made connections between the chronic obstructive pul-
monary disease emphysema and a 
mutation in the gene that regulates telomeres.
Telomeres are the protective 
caps at the end of cells. Every time DNA gets replicated, these struc-tures shorten. When we are born, telomeres are long and shorten pro-gressively throughout our lives. But 
these strands are finicky. When they 
run out, the cell deactivates and dies, which can lead to disease and prema-ture aging.
Telomeres that keep their length 
and overproduce can cause the for-mation of cancerous growths. It’s a true Goldilocks predicament if there ever was one.
Discoveries like this are made al-
most daily. We are slowly learning more information about ourselves than we had for the greater portion 
of human existence. 
Presently, doctors and scientists 
can only give estimates based on 
observations and patterns as to how long of a life span we have. But they 
are getting close.
In our lifetime, we have seen so many technological advancements 
that those from only a few genera-tions before us would have only en-countered in their wildest imagina-tions.
And every day they surprise us 
with new findings. It won’t be long before we know with precision when we will take our last breaths. Pardon 
the cliche, but the jury is still out on 
whether that’s a good thing.
Until now, the unknown factor of 
life is one that has allowed for a cer-tain mystery — as well as a certain 
feeling of invincibility. We’ve been 
able to push back anything that we feel isn’t absolutely essential. We have felt as though we could do any-
thing, as if we had all the time in the 
world, even while knowing this one life is limited. 
Will it make a difference when the 
day comes that we find out exactly 
how long we have to live? Will we be 
crippled by the knowledge that our days are literally numbered, and that anything we try to do about it will not 
make a change? Will we really make 
the most of it and do the best we can to leave our mark on this place? Or will it have any effect at all?
Until then, we will have to keep 
living with the same uncertainty that is at times thrilling and often daunt-ing. 
For now, we don’t know how 
much time we have left, so I suggest we use it wisely.
Science will continue to surprise 
us even more each day. Regardless of whether we know how much we’ve 
got, we should enjoy and make the 
most of our time.
Sol Canal is a UF English junior. 
Her column appears on Mondays. How much difference will 
advances in science make?Column
Nick Eagle
opinions@alligator.orgSol Canal
opinions@alligator.org
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a 
local man Saturday morning for 
reportedly sexually assaulting a co-worker at her apartment.
At about 4 a.m., Leroyea Sha-
kar Harold Simmons-Jackson, 22, was in bed with his co-worker in her apartment at Countryside at the University, located at 4000 
Southwest 23rd Terrace, accord-
ing to a police report. 
Simmons-Jackson, identified 
as a bouncer in the report, began to rub and digi-tally penetrate the woman with her consent. The 
woman told po-
lice she warned 
Simmons-Jack-son she was not going to have sex with him, 
but he kept pushing. He told the woman, “Whatever you tell me to do I’m going to do the opposite,” 
according to the report. Simmons-
Jackson then raped her.
The woman identified Sim-mons-Jackson from a Facebook photo.
Simmons-Jackson told police 
the woman said she didn’t want 
to have sex with him, but she was 
“gyrating and moving her body against his in a manner that he felt implied that she did want to have sex with him.”
Police arrested him just before 
10 a.m. on a sexual battery charge, according to the report. 
Police took Simmons-Jackson 
to the Alachua County Jail, where he remained as of press time in lieu of a $50,000 bond.8, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff 
Tiny Place Living Space
Ana Gomez (left), a 21-year-old UF public relations senior, watches Valeria Yulee, 22, also a UF public 
relations senior, give a tour of a living space made from a shipping container placed on the North Lawn on Friday as part of the UF Bateman Team’s public relations campaign for housing affordability. 
Gainesville Throwbacks
Feb. 9, 1979
Cramped quarters, stuffed filing cabinets and knee-deep stu-
dent records forced UF officials to store the files of 5,000 correspon-dence students in the Division of Continuing Education’s first-floor men’s bathroom. The women’s bathroom was ruled out because 
it was upstairs. This left UF employees with an issue — if the files 
were needed, a man had to retrieve them. But theft of records is less of an issue now, said staff assistant Kathy Bates. “The men’s room is right in the middle of all the offices here, so there is no way any-body could get out with anything.”
Feb. 9, 1988About 12 clinical pathology workers from the UF College of Vet-
erinary Medicine said they were experiencing the same eye, skin 
and throat irritations they experienced seven months earlier in the 
main veterinary building. Arline Dishong, director of health cen-ter communications, said tests conducted Jan. 28 showed that the airflow was “adequate for the number of people in the building.” Since air quality testers discovered the fumes, vet school officials have spent more than $3 million on repairs.
Feb. 9, 1994The Downtown Gainesville Transportation Management Orga-
nization began the Share-n-Gators program, which pairs students and local residents for carpooling purposes. A list of first names, destinations and phone numbers were posted on bulletin boards of more than 16 participating apartments. “People wanting to take part in the free program just call us to sign up, and we will get their 
name, phone number and destination,” said Jeanne Snurkowski, 
executive director of the program. “From there it’s the commuter’s responsibility to check the bulletin board and call people they might be interested in driving or riding with.”
Feb. 9, 2005In an effort to raise money for tsunami relief, Mike Lemire, 24, 
and three other UF students have placed pictures and personal in-formation on eBay, hoping that people will donate money in ex-change for a date with them on Valentine’s Day. Lemire, a junior and lead singer of local band Alex the Mediocre, said he wasn’t looking for love. “It’s more just for a good cause, not for romance,” he said, adding that no matter what the age or sex of his date might be, “I’ll be totally cool with it and happy.”
— ALEX HARRISCRIMEMan charged with sexual battery
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Deputies arrested Assistant U.S. Attorney 
Francis Williams’ ex-wife Saturday after she reportedly shot him in the arm.
At about 5 p.m. Friday, Alexis Touchton 
Williams, 39, shot her ex-husband in the arm 
after he went to her Gainesville home to pick 
up their 5-year-old daughter, according to an Alachua County Sheriff’s report.
Williams told police he went to the house 
to pick up his daughter as part of a custody agreement and to give his ex-wife some prop-erty paperwork. 
He waited on the porch for his daughter 
as Touchton Williams crouched and pointed a black semi-automatic pistol at his chest. He told police he realized, “she was going to kill me,” according to the police report. He 
jumped and turned before Touchton Williams 
shot him in the arm, according to the police report.
Touchton Williams later told police she 
didn’t want her daughter going with Williams because she believed he was intoxicated. She said he threatened to kill her first, and she shot him because she said she was scared, accord-ing to the police report.
Following an interview with Williams, 
deputies arrested and charged her with at-tempted murder. She was taken to the Ala-chua County Jail, where she remained as of press time in lieu of a $200,000 bond. Assistant U.S. Attorney shot
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
COLUMBIA, S.C. — A professor who taught anatomy and 
physiology and was highly regarded by both his students and fellow faculty members was shot and killed by his ex-wife in an apparent murder-suicide at the University of South Carolina, a coroner said Friday.
Sunghee Kwon shot Raja Fayad several times in the upper body Thursday afternoon in a fourth-floor office at the univer-sity’s public health building, Richland County Coroner Gary Watts said in a news release.
Kwan then committed suicide with a gunshot to her stom-
ach, the coroner said. A 9 mm pistol with an empty magazine was found near the bodies, State Law Enforcement Division spokesman Thom Berry said. No one witnessed the shooting, which happened in a small laboratory and adjacent office.Kwon, 46, and Fayad, 45, were divorced a few years ago 
but continued to live together until they split up for good a few months ago, Watts said. Kwon was still living in the couple’s home near Lake Murray in Lexington County, while Fayad 
had moved to a long-term hotel with a family member, the 
coroner said.
Students and faculty learned about it from an emergency 
text alert from university officials. Ex-wife kills professor in U-South Carolina murder-suicideAlligator File Photo
UF student Mike Lemire checks his bids after putting himself 
up for auction on eBay as a Valentine’s Day date. Money from the highest bid was donated to Tsunami relief in 2005.Simmons-Jackson
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
ALYSSA FISHER and  
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writers
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
ecochrane@alligator.org
The Roaming Gnome exuded 
Gator pride at Saturday’s basketball 
game in an orange-and-blue wig. 
The Gnome was in town for the 
Florida Gators vs. Kentucky Wild-
cats basketball game, broadcasting 
live from the Stephen C. O’Connell Center for ESPN’s College GameDay coverage. Represented by Traveloc-ity Brand Manager Kelly Rathbun, he said he was not-so-secretly root-ing for the Gators.
A fan of local sports, the Roaming 
Gnome said he likes to dress appro-
priately wherever he travels, but he 
loved wearing the Gators’ colors — they made him stand out.
Rathbun conﬁ  rmed the Gnome is always up for adventure.
He ate apple fritters at Peach Val-
ley Café, tacos at The Swamp Res-taurant and pizza at Satchel’s. When he needed a break from it all, he took 
advantage of the warm weather and 
canoed at Lake Wauburg. 
The Gnome 
took selﬁ  es all weekend, appre-ciative of the stu-dents who helped him chomp. While he loved traveling 
and meeting new 
people, he was 
excited to cheer at 
the game, where he sat in anticipa-tion of an unexpected moment.  
With no time to rest, the busy 
Gnome is on the road again. But no matter where he goes, he will always be a member of the Gator Nation. Gnome explores before 
moving on after gameCAMPUS
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
The UF performing arts director is leaving af-
ter 15 years growing Gainesville’s art community.
Michael Blachly announced last week his re-
tirement, which he will begin Sept. 1. He came 
to UF in 2000 after working as the director for 
University of California, Los Angeles Performing 
Arts for 14 years.
A search ﬁ  rm will be hired to ﬁ  nd his succes-
sor. Although he will have no role in choosing the next director, he said he feels the program will continue to advance.
Blachly said he was hired to grow and develop 
the program. During the last 15 years, he added three new performance spaces: the Baughman 
Center, the University Auditorium and the Squi-
tieri Studio Theatre inside the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts.
“What we have accomplished will provide a 
solid foundation that will become a spring-board for the future,” he said.
Blachly said he came with plans to diversify 
the program.
“I wanted to incorporate a more international 
presence,” he said. “I wanted to commission and create new work for furthering the art forms of music, dance and theater.” 
He accomplished his plans to create an inter-national program at UF, which includes estab-lished artists from around the world in classical music, jazz, dance, theater, contemporary arts and singing and songwriting.
“It continues to be a wonderful community in 
which to present a broad range of performing art-
ists,” he said.
Blachly said he thanks Student Government 
for its role in the growth of the the program by 
making concerts and plays accessible and afford-able to students.  
UF student Veronica Mingrone considers 
Blachly a mentor.
She worked as his intern for three years on 
various projects and managed the art program’s 
funding with SG. Although she will miss him, 
Mingrone said she’s happy for him.
“Working for Michael has been the best ex-
perience I could have asked for,” the 20-year-old public relations junior said. “I’ve never met any-body so willing to help and willing to work with you. He’s deﬁ  nitely leaving, but he won’t be re-placed.”
Blachly said he doesn’t know where retirement 
will take him. He is sure, however, that he will remain an active member of the arts community.  
“I feel we have accomplished a great deal,” he 
said. “I feel the program is ready to keep grow-ing.”UF performing arts director retires
Gnome
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
Volunteers of America is offering free, all-
inclusive housing for homeless veterans in a friendly, supportive atmosphere. Please call Woody at 352.642.8313 for immediate move-in!    2-16-15-7-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    2-25-15-20-2
TIRED OF ROOMMATES?
Move-in ready 1bed/1bath in Windsor Park.  $700/mo.  Contact Debra Oberlin, REALTOR 352-514-6715 EXIT Realty Producers    2-10-15-5-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
Is Algebra holding you back in Calculus? Available in print or Kindle on Amazon - a workbook to tackle the algebraic struggles most often encountered in Calculus I and II courses. 100 Equations - The Algebra that Almost Kills Calculushttp://www.elizabethstepp.com/books    2-11-15-3-10 Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales andScooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-20-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Advertising Office Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the 
country, is seeking to hire someone with the
following qualifications.
● Full Time position● Enthusiastic● Detail oriented● Excellent organizational skills● Office Administrative skills, clerical skills● Ability to multitask and meet deadlines● Excellent customer service skills● Manage national sales● Ability to train new employees● Experienced with Microsoft Office● Great communication skills, personable● Quick learner● Help manage team of constantlychanging student sales staff
● Nonprofit organization
● Modest Salary● Great working environment● Generous holiday and vacation benefits
Send cover letter and resume to
soconnor@alligator.org to be
considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
12, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015
Best Programming Job in Gainesville
Help build WWW 3.0 - the Semantic Web. 
Must be experienced ASP.NET MVCprogrammer. Change the scientific world. Apply to info@chemicalsemantics.com    2-13-15-7-14
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Attention Viagra Users!
VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305     1-30-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCHOHOL? Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-972-6607    1-30-1-16
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"  Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
UF men’s tennis tops FSU
The No. 14 Florida men’s tennis team topped No. 
33 Florida State 4-2 on Friday. Junior Diego Hidalgo clinched the match with a three-set win on Court 2.Ericha Fassbender and the UF gymnastics team defeated Arkansas on Friday. Read the story at 
alligatorSports.orgJORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Even though Florida (12-11, 5-5 Southeast-
ern Conference) was on the losing end of a 68-
61 showdown against No. 1 Kentucky (23-0, 10-0 SEC), coach Billy Donovan saw his team take a step in the right direction.
“It’s the first time I felt in 23 games we 
played to win (Saturday),” Donovan said. “I thought we played as a team.”
Added redshirt junior guard Eli Carter, 
who was one of four UF players to score in 
double digits against Kentucky: “Guys got out of their selfishness I guess. Guys wanted to 
win for each other.”
But now Florida’s goal becomes finding the 
transition from wanting to win for each other to actually putting together the wins.
The Gators have eight more regular-season 
games left on the schedule to figure out how to do that.
“We can definitely build off the energy of 
the game,” Carter said. “We’ve just got to con-tinue working on staying consistent. We have to come with this energy every single time.”
Hill played aggressively: At times this sea-
son — and throughout his two-year career at UF — Kasey Hill has struggled to put points on the board.
Saturday was not one of those times.
The sophomore point guard put together 
his fourth double-digit scoring outing of the 
season against the Wildcats, posting 12 points on 5-of-11 shooting while also dishing out a game-high six assists and turning the ball over just one time in 31 minutes on the court.
“He played much better,” Donovan said. 
“He got to the basket. … I thought he had a better understanding and was more engaged.”
Frazier day-to-day: Michael Frazier was 
sidelined for most of the second half with a right ankle sprain and is day-to-day.
He finished the game with 10 first-half 
points on 3-of-4 shooting. 
“He was trying to limp and hobble, and 
he needed to sit,” Donovan said. “I appreciate him trying, but he wasn’t able to help us.”
But even in Frazier’s absence, Florida’s of-
fense still had a spark down the stretch.
After the junior shooting guard checked 
out of the game for the final time with 11:41 left to play, Florida scored 17 points on 50-per-
cent shooting (7-of-14 from the field).
“Coach always says that if we’ve got five 
or six players that are connected, we can go up 
against anybody,” Hill said. “So we can’t re-ally worry whether Frazier was coming back in or not. We just had to find a way to stay con-nected and play together.”
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Kasey Hill, who scored 12 points on Saturday, goes up for a layup during Florida’s 68-61 loss to No. 1 Kentucky.
Gators men’s basketball looks to build off loss to Kentucky
LUIS TORRES
Alligator Writer @LFTorresIII
Taylore Fuller must have remem-
bered what she did on Feb. 8, 2014 as she 
stepped up to the plate. 
On that day, 
she completed Florida’s 9-4 comeback win 
against the Michigan Wolverines with a two-run home run.
And on Sunday — one year later — 
Fuller hit a two-run blast against USF to tie the game at four, sparking a come-back as the Gators (5-0) defeated the 
Bulls 10-5 in the final game of the USF 
Softball Classic in Tampa.  
UF went into the frame down 4-2 
after USF scored four runs in the third 
inning, and chased starting pitcher Dela-
nie Gourley, who struggled with her control, walking three batters while hit-ting one in just 2.1 innings pitched.
Aleshia Ocasio came on in relief for 
Gourley, and the freshman was impres-Juniors spark Gators to 
doubleheader sweepWOMEN’S BASKETBALL
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
 For one of the few times this season, the 
Gators women’s basketball team played 
with fight when it hosted No. 6 Tennessee 
on Sunday.
But fight doesn’t necessarily translate 
into a victory.
Despite jumping on the Volunteers early, Florida couldn’t overcome the height of its 
adversary, falling 64-56 to Tennessee in the 
O’Connell Center.
“I was really proud of the way every-
one fought,” coach Amanda Butler said. “I 
thought everyone stepped up and played their hardest. And that’s what we ask them 
to do, just go and battle.”
Florida’s lineup was already undersized 
heading into the game before the team 
learned Sunday morning that freshman for-
ward Haley Lorenzen would be unable to 
play after she suffered a concussion in prac-tice on Saturday.Florida’s rally falls flat 
against No. 6 Tennessee
SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 16
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 16UF Sof tball“It’s the first time I felt in 23 
games we played to win (Saturday). 
I thought we played as a team.”
Billy Donovan
UF men’s basketball coach
“I was really proud of the way 
everyone fought.”
Amanda Butler
UF women’s basketball coach
Poll Results
How would you grade Florida’s recruiting class?25.4% A
49.2% B
25.4% C-F
59 total votesENEISY RODRIGUEZ
Alligator Writer @eneisyr29
The No. 2 Florida women’s 
tennis team fell short of securing 
a spot in the ITA National Team Indoor Championship finals Sun-day afternoon at the Boar’s Head 
Sports Club.
Florida fell 4-0 to No. 3 North 
Carolina.
The Gators 
(5-1) battled 
this weekend to clinch a semi-finals spot, de-feating No. 13 
Clemson in 
their first-round matchup and with their vic-
tory against No. 10 host team Vir-ginia in the quarterfinals match.
“Playing in the semifinal of 
any national event is obviously a big accomplishment, but the pass-
ing of coach [Dean] Smith (former 
UNC men’s basketball coach) last night magnified the significance of this match against North Caro-lina even more for me, person-ally,” coach Roland Thornqvist said in a release. “He was a hero of mine both on the court and off the court. And for any Tar Heel, 
today certainly was a bittersweet 
day. If we were going to lose to anyone, perhaps losing to the Tar Heels today makes the pill easier to swallow.”After losing the doubles point, 
Florida was unable to bounce back against the undefeated Tar Heels (8-0). The Gators dropped the 
doubles point for the second time 
in three matches.The Gators’ No. 1 doubles 
pairing, No. 7 Brooke Austin and Kourtney Keegan, got an early 6-1 victory over the No. 13 Ashley Dai and Kate Vialle. Florida struggled at the No. 2 and No. 3 doubles po-sitions to allow UNC to take the early 1-0 lead.
And once singles play began, 
UNC proved to be too much for 
Florida.
Florida’s Belinda Woolcock 
and Peggy Porter dropped their 
matches on the Nos. 3 and 4 courts before UNC’s Ashley Dai clinched the win for the Tar Heels in a 3-6, 6-2, 6-2 takedown of No. 26 Kourt-ney Keegan on the No. 5 court.
After the Gators 2-1 outing this 
weekend, Florida improved to 49-13 all-time in National Indoor matches. They’ve won a total of 49 matches in the event’s 28 years.
“We’re going to head home and 
look forward to begin the outdoor portion of our schedule,” Thorn-qvist said. “I’m really proud of the team, we’ve come a long way. 
Our freshmen certainly showed 
we have plenty of character, along with the skill to give us great hope for the rest of the season.”
The Gators have a 10-day break 
before they face off with Florida State in Tallahassee on Feb. 18 at 4 p.m.  14, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015
Marley Boerema / Alligator
UF coach Roland Thornqvist watches his players compete during Florida’s 4-0 win against Maryland on Jan. 
25. UF was eliminated from the ITA National Indoor Championships after losing 4-0 to UNC on Sunday.
WOMEN’S TENNIS
Florida drops national indoors semifinal match to UNC
KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator Writer @KBrut13
 More than 5,000 miles away 
from his home, Stipe Zunic put on 
a performance in the shot put that would set him apart from any Croa-tian to ever live.
Zunic — a UF senior thrower and 
native of Zadar, Croatia — opened the final day of the Virginia Tech Elite with a Croatian National Re-cord 20.61-meter throw in the men’s shot put. 
The toss set a new Florida record 
in the event and throttled Zunic into second-place in the NCAA.The mark did not surprise UF 
throws coach Steve Lemke, as he noted that Zunic has been grinding it out in practice since his last com-petition.
“We knew that was coming, but 
it’s always nice to see it come to frui-
tion,” Lemke said in a release.
Lemke credited Zunic’s hard 
work in practice as a result of his 
result at the Rod McCravy Memo-rial Invitational, one that he was not very happy about. 
The Croatian’s last performance 
resulted in a personal record (19.97) and stood as the second-best mark 
in UF history.Zunic’s performance was com-
plemented well by that of the rest of 
the Gators men’s and women’s track 
and field’s five-athlete contingent 
for the meet.
Freshman thrower Lloydricia 
Cameron left Blacksburg, Virginia, with new personal records in both the weight throw and the shot put.
Cameron set herself a new mark 
in the weight throw on Friday, hurl-ing a 17.34-meter throw, giving her a 
13th-place finish in the event.
The Miami native closed out 
the meet on Saturday in the shot 
put, where she improved her PR on a 15.74-meter throw, en route to a runner-up finish. The toss moved Cameron up to fourth overall in the NCAA among freshmen.
Senior thrower Kyle Strawn set 
a PR in the weight toss, securing a fifth-place finish for the product from Temecula, California. His ef-fort improved his own mark as fourth-best toss in program history.
Sophomore distance runner Becky Greene produced a 10th-place finish (10:10.24) in the 3,000-meter run in her 2015 individual debut.
Senior thrower Jayla Bostic fin-
ished in fifth-place in the weight toss with a 20.10-meter throw.
Lemke said that Bostic had a 
frustrating meet, as she is over a meter down from her PR, which she set at the 2014 Southeastern Confer-ence Championships. However, he is confident that she can recover her 
form.
“We are working on some new 
things,” Lemke said, “and she 
knows what she has to do to get bet-ter.”
Senior thrower breaks UF, Croatian shot put recordsThornqvist
“We knew that was 
coming, but it’s always nice 
to see it come to fruition.”
Steve Lemke
UF throws coachMONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
TOP LEFT: Redshirt junior guard Carlie Needles calls out a play 
to her teammates during the Florida women’s basketball team’s 64-56 loss to No. 6 Tennessee on Sunday. After leading by five points early in the second half, the Gators went on a five-minute shooting drought, which allowed the Volunteers to take the lead for good.
TOP RIGHT: Kentucky’s Willie Cauley-Stein dunks during the sec-
ond half of the No. 1 Wildcats’ 68-61 win over the Gators on Saturday in the O’Connell Center. Cauley-Stein scored 13 points, six of which came off dunks.
MIDDLE:  Dorian Finney-Smith grabs one of his team-high five 
rebounds against No. 1 Kentucky on Saturday. The Wildcats out-
rebounded the Gators 33-20.
BOTTOM LEFT: Instead of subbing out after his shoe fell off, UF 
shooting guard Michael Frazier II played the final 45 seconds of the first half without his left shoe.
BOTTOM RIGHT: UF freshman attacker Shayna Pirreca runs 
toward the goal during No. 3 Florida lacrosse’s 17-11 season-opening loss to No. 2 North Carolina on Saturday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.Aaron Albright / Alligator
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff Aaron Albright / AlligatorAndres Leiva / Alligator StaffWithout her size, the Volunteers (20-3, 10-0 
Southeastern Conference) exposed the Gators 
(11-12, 3-7 SEC) in the paint early, as forward 
Isabelle Harrison scored the ﬁ  rst 11 points for 
Tennessee and ﬁ  nished with a team-high 17 on 7-of-11 shooting.
But Florida wasn’t about to roll over and take 
another loss in league play.
The Gators shot the ball well, moved the bas-
ketball and defended with aggression in the ﬁ  rst half, as Florida went into the break with a 30-28 lead.
However, any hope Florida had about defeat-
ing its ﬁ  rst ranked opponent this season was foiled by a scoring drought that lasted nearly ﬁ  ve minutes in the second half.
The Volunteers used an 11-0 break after half-
time to make it 42-36, with Florida fouling on nu-merous shots that had Tennessee shooting 22 free 
throws in the second half to just two by Florida.
Cassie Peoples led Florida with a game-high 
18 points and six assists while Ronni Williams 
turned in her ﬁ  rst double-double of the season 
with 11 points and 13 rebounds.
Redshirt senior Kayla Lewis recorded her 
1,000th career point in the ﬁ  rst half to tie the score 
at 26, becoming just the 23rd Gators women’s basketball player to accomplish the feat.
“I think I’ve been too hurt to even think that 
was a possibility,” Lewis said. 
“So when I heard that was maybe a possibil-
ity I was like ‘Alright’, and that has a lot to do 
with my teammates. I’ve had some really great 
teammates that have gotten me the ball. I’m not a player that creates a lot off the dribble, you know we have great players like Cassie and Ronni who get the ball in to me and reward me for running 
in transition, so I can’t take a whole lot of credit 
for those thousand points. I’m just happy I was able to put the ball in the hole for my team.”16, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Cassie Peoples drives down the court during Florida’s 64-56 loss to No. 6 Tennessee on Sunday 
in the O’Connell Center. Peoples scored a game-high 18 points.
Peoples scored game-high 18 points
W-HOOPS , from page 13
JUSTEN ROSENBERG
Alligator Writer @RosenbergJusten
In an attempt to build off of 
its third-place ﬁ  nish in January’s 
Florida Challenge, the Florida 
women’s golf team traveled to 
California to participate in the Northrop Grumman Regional Challenge, which features ﬁ  ve 
of the nation’s top-10 teams.
The goal of this week’s tour-
nament, like every other, is to 
improve. 
So far, the improvements are 
there as the Gators ﬁ  nished Sun-day’s ﬁ  rst round in ﬁ  fth place with a combined 7-over-291, 10 strokes behind ﬁ  rst-place Baylor.
Coach Emily Glaser believes 
that seeing unfamiliar west coast opponents will go a long way in helping them achieve that goal.
“That’s always a good chal-
lenge for us,” Glaser said in a re-lease. “Those are the teams that you’ll be seeing at the end of the year at Nationals.”Freshman Taylor Tomlinson 
led the charge for the Gators, shooting a team best one-over-par, placing her in a tie for 13th place overall.  
Maria Torres, Camilla Hed-
berg and Karolina Vlckova each ﬁ  nished two-over-par, while sophomore Kelly Grassel ﬁ  n-ished ﬁ  ve-over-par.
Junior Ursa Orehek, who 
competed as an individual, struggled throughout the day, opening with a bogey in four of 
her ﬁ  rst six holes.  She ﬁ  nished 
the day with a score of seven-over-par 78.
Florida will look to keep pace 
as Round 2 begins today.UF women’s golf in ﬁ  fth 
at California tourney
Outﬁ  elder hit three homers
sive once again.
One day after winning her ﬁ  rst ca-
reer start and scoring the game winning 
run, Ocasio entered the game with the 
bases loaded in the bottom of the third inning and was able to hold her own.  
She picked up her second win in as 
many days, as she pitched 4.2 innings while striking out six batters.
In the batter’s box for Florida, Kirsti 
Merritt had a day she’ll never forget. The junior slugged three home runs 
and had seven RBIs in Florida’s two victories on Sunday — a 9-0 win against 
Jacksonville University and the come-back against USF.
After Kathlyn Medina put the Gators 
ahead with a bunt single and Kelsey Stewart reached on an error that scored two runs, Merritt put the game out of reach.
The Lake Panasoffkee, Florida, na-
tive hit her second three-run homer of the day to give UF a 10-4 lead.
Florida will have an opportunity to 
double up its win total against the Dol-
phins when they travel to Jacksonville 
on Wednesday. SOFTBALL , from page 13“I think I’ve been too hurt to even 
think that was a possibility. So when I 
heard that was maybe a possibility I was 
like ‘Alright’, and that has a lot to do with 
my teammates.”
Kayla Lewis
UF Forward“That’s always a good 
challenge for us. Those 
are the teams that you’ll 
be seeing at the end of the 
year at Nationals.”
Emily Glaser
Coach