By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Florida’s 27-2 loss to FSU in the team’s 
regular-season ﬁ  nale temporarily erased the 
memories of a promising season in Gainesville under ﬁ  rst-year UF coach Jim McElwain.
The Gators were unable to move the ball 
effectively against Florida State, the defense couldn’t force turnovers, and the special teams failed to put points on the board.Now with two losses, the harsh reality is 
that UF’s College Football Playoff hopes have 
vanished.
But with a 7-1 record in the Southeastern 
Conference, Florida’s season is far from ﬁ  n-
ished.
McElwain and the Gators have a date with 
coach Nick Saban and the Alabama Crimson Tide on Saturday in the SEC Championship Game.
Now in its 108th season, Florida has won 
eight SEC Championships since joining the conference in 1933, with seven of those com-ing in a championship game, which is the most of any team.
UF technically won its ﬁ  rst SEC title in 1984 
under coach Charley Pell, but it was later va-cated after the coaching staff was found to have committed multiple NCAA infractions.
Former coach Will Muschamp and the 
Gators didn’t win the SEC Eastern division in 
his tenure, leaving an Urban Meyer-led team as 
the last Florida squad to compete for the con-ference title.
That was in 2009, and Meyer and senior 
quarterback Tim Tebow had the Gators unde-feated heading into Atlanta with their sights set on the national championship game.Jim McElwain was there, too.But he was with Saban helping the Crimson 
Tide smother the Gators 32-13 and end their hopes of a second title in three seasons head-ing to Gainesville.
That loss at the hands of McElwain and Sa-
ban ignited the fuse of dynamite that eventu-ally blew up Florida’s prized mini-dynasty.
The ensuing month is well-known football 
lore.
Meyer brieﬂ  y retired less than three weeks 
later, Alabama won the ﬁ  rst of three national championships in four years, and the Gators hired Muschamp.
A lot has changed in six years for Florida, We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 66 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015
Kelvin Taylor a bright spot 
for Florida’s oﬀ  ense
The junior had another strong outing 
in UF’s loss to Florida State, pg. 13
GoFundMe started for injured student’s dog
The dog is an unofﬁ  cial mascot for the UF women’s soccer 
team, pg. 4
UF expands gender-neutral bathrooms
30 signs were added around campus, pg. 5An early Christmas
Check out the Tioga T own festival 
photo story, pg. 9
Student meets teacher at SEC Championship
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
UF 2 FSU 27
McElwain coached under Saban
HE WILL BE OFFICIALL Y 
INAUGURATED FRIDAY. 
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
When UF President Kent Fuchs stepped onto 
the ﬁ  eld Saturday night, Gator fans roared. As the 
honorary Mr. Two Bits, he chanted, “Two Bits!  
Four Bits!  Six bits!  A dollar!  All for the Gators, 
stand up and holler!”
And the Gators did.His gameday debut kicked off his ofﬁ  cial wel-
come to UF as the university’s 12th president. Throughout the week, students will celebrate Fuchs’ formal inauguration to UF. 
Like Bernie Machen, who served UF as presi-
dent from 2004 to 2014, Fuchs began his duties 
as president in January but will be inaugurated 
this Fall. 
Fuchs said he will meet students today on the 
Reitz Union North Lawn from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.  
Later in the week, UF colleges, libraries and other 
campus units will host open houses and talks as part of the celebrations.
The festivities will culminate Friday at a for-
mal inauguration ceremony in the University 
Auditorium, followed by a reception open to the 
public outside the Reitz Union, Fuchs said.
UF public relations junior Meaghan Hanley 
said she’s looking forward to talking with Fuchs 
today.
When the 20-year-old met Fuchs over the 
summer as a Preview staffer, she said she noticed 
how attentive he was when it came to students. She thinks he cares about every student’s well-
being.
“It’s kind of like welcoming your best friend to campus,” Hanley said. “He’s a really great guy.”
Fuchs said he loves that the week isn’t just a 
celebration of him: It’s a celebration of UF.
“It’s not just a ceremony and a reception,” he 
said. “The best parts of any of these events are 
being with the students.”
He said his favorite part of meeting students is 
seeing their enthusiasm for the university.
“It’s just contagious and infectious,” he said. 
“It energizes me.”
UF plant science junior Ashley Francois said she wants to talk with Fuchs today to give him the same support he gives the Student Body.
“He comes to (student) events, so we should 
show our appreciation and support for him,” the 20-year-old said.
Hanley said she’s going to today’s student 
event because she said she believes it’ll be a 
once-in-a-lifetime experience.
“You only have one undergrad experience,” 
she said. “Being there for an inauguration, that’s 
something special.”FOLLOWING FUCHS
UF President Kent Fuchs was 
chosen as UF’s 12th president in 
October 2014. He began his duties in January. Here’s what he’s been up to:
JANUARY:
Fuchs takes his ﬁ  rst selﬁ  e at Inno-
vation Academy convocation Jan. 5
FEBRUARY:
Fuchs writes his ﬁ  rst column for the Independent Florida Alligator: “On teaching, Twitter and being a Gator.”
APRIL:
Fuchs and Gators head coach Jim McElwain switch positions for a day as part of an April Fools Day video.He announces the creation of his 
goal-setting task force, a group of 
professors and deans who are gath-ering information about UF to deter-mine goals for the next 10 years.
JULY:
The goal-setting task force releases its ﬁ  rst goals for UF, which included having a diverse Student Body, ex-panding research opportunities and hiring distinguished faculty.
AUGUST:
Fuchs decides to raise the minimum 
hourly wage for UF staff from $10 to $12 an hour.He welcomes UF freshmen at his ﬁ  rst New Student Convocation.
SEPTEMBER:
Fuchs delivers his ﬁ  rst Fall State of the University address.
NOVEMBER:
Fuchs serves as Honorary Mr. Two Bits at the UF vs. FSU game.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
UF President Kent Fuchs leads a crowd of more than 90,000 people in a cheer as honor-
ary Mr. Two Bits before the UF vs. Florida State University game Saturday in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. “It was incredible, ” he said after leading the cheer. 
Welcoming President FuchsSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT'S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators anniversary cel-
ebration Saturday
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club will host a 10th 
Anniversary Celebration and Reunion on Saturday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Uptown 
Village at Townsend clubhouse, 
3780 NW 24th Blvd. Guests will include Toastmasters mem-bers and officers  throughout the area and past and present 
Talking Gators club members 
and officers. RSVP by calling 352-283-3919 so we can plan for refreshments. For more in-
formation about the club, visit 
talkinggators.toastmastersclubs.org.
Sounds of the Season: An 
American HolidayUF’s College of the Arts and the School of Music are pleased to present their annual holiday 
concert, Sounds of the Season: 
An American Holiday, con-ducted by Will Kesling. Sounds of the Season will feature more than 250 performers. Come and 
enjoy an array of holiday favor-
ites. The centerpiece of the con-cert, “Red Telephone,” is a short musical play created by Phillip 
Grow that tells the story of the 
origin of the North American Aerospace Defense Command’s Tracks Santa program, which has been following Santa’s prog-
ress from the North Pole to chil-
dren all over the globe since the 1950s. Another highlight of this year’s concert will be the narra-
tion of Longfellow’s “Christmas 
Bells” by UF President Kent Fuchs.Tickets are free and will be dis-tributed at the door beginning at 
5 p.m. the day of the concert, on 
Sunday. For more information, contact the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts Box Office 
at 352-392-2787, or visit per-
formingarts.ufl.edu.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club 
invites you and your friends to 
its biweekly lessons/dances every Monday and Friday. The club will have free lessons for 
beginners and intermediates 
open to everyone. On Monday nights, they are at the Reitz Union Breezeway (located at 655 Reitz Union Drive) with les-
sons from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 8 p.m. to 11 
p.m. On Friday nights, they are 
at the Unified Training Center 
(809 W. University Ave.) with lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. to midnight. If you have any 
questions or would like to get 
involved, please visit facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/. The club hopes to dance with you all 
soon.
UF PRSSA & FPRA Holiday 
Student Social
Join the UF chapter of the Public 
Relations Student Society of 
America and UF’s Florida Public Relations Association for an evening of networking and con-
necting with local public rela-
tions professionals Thursday from 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. at AHA! The Innovation CoLab in Weimer Hall. There will be 
holiday-themed desserts and 
chances to win prizes. Contact Patricia Krogh at pakrogh@ha-venhospice.org, or call 623-628-
9148 for more information.
RUB Entertainment Presents 
Merry Mug Making
Reitz Union Board Entertainment 
is hosting Merry Mug Making 
on Thursday from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Reitz Union Arts and Crafts Center. Students can come and 
paint mugs and Christmas orna-
ments for free. Hot cocoa, cook-ies and tea will be provided as well.
Home Craft Show
Featuring works of art from lo-cal artisans, many quality hand-made items, original paintings, 
tatted and beaded jewelry, cro-
cheted critters, paper art and more. Find that special holiday gift. Come out to 2915 NW 55th Blvd. on Dec. 12 from 9 a.m. to 
2 p.m., they'll be there rain or 
shine. For more information, email craftyqueen12@cox.net.
Highlights from  the Popular 
Culture CollectionPopular Culture Collections cu-rator Jim Liversidge will spot-light some of the highlights 
from the UF Popular Culture 
Collection, including the cos-tume sketches of Tony Award-nominated designer John David 
Ridge, film ephemera from the 
silent classics through the wide-screen era of the 1950s, Mexican and Cuban film posters, the photographs of Martin Harris (who worked for “Stars and 
Stripes,” “Life” and “Colliers”) 
and the original Superman pro-totype (1 out of 3 in the world) produced by the original artists. The talk will be held Monday 
at 2 p.m. in the Judaica Suite 
of Smathers Library (inside the Grand Reading Room on the second floor).
“This Book Belongs To” talk
Join Suzan Alteri, curator of the Baldwin Library of Historical Children’s Literature, for a 
hands-on display and discus-
sion illustrating how children expressed their love of family, friends and books through in-
scriptions, coloring and other 
marks of the hand. The talk will be Tuesday at 2 p.m. in the Judaica Suite of Smathers Library (inside the Grand 
Reading Room on the second 
floor).
Cuba’s National Archives: 
Understanding Archives and the Archives Profession in the Global ContextJorge Macle Cruz, the for-mer vice director of informa-
tion and reproduction of ma-
terials for researchers at the Archivo Nacional de Cuba is an authority on provincial ar-
chives and the declassification 
of government documents in Cuba. He will speak Tuesday from 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the Latin American and Caribbean 
Collection Reading Room on the 
third floor of Smathers Library.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 66
HIGH  81° LOW  61°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloMONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
be smart.
eat local.
Photos by Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
LEFT:
Mason Crum, 5, sits on a Christmas tree trunk as he and his family wait for their 
tree to get trimmed at Severt’s Tree Farm on Sunday. “We have been getting our trees from here for 10 years now, ” his mom, Erin Crum, 33, said.
BELOW:
Edward Ruggles, the manager of the Severt’s Tree Farm lot, trims a Christmas tree in a tent on Butler Plaza on Sunday. The farm’s North Carolina Fraser fir tree sizes range from tabletop to 12 feet tall.‘Oh,  Christmas Tree’4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
University Police arrested an Atlanta man 
during Saturday’s football game after police 
said he had cocaine and a fake driver’s license.
At about 7:25 p.m. Saturday, Jameson F. 
Logan, 18, walked through Gate 14 of Ben Hill 
Grifﬁ  n Stadium with a bulge in the right pocket 
of his cargo pants, accord-
ing to a police report.
An ofﬁ  cer searched Lo-
gan, found vodka in a Zip-
loc bag and took him to the booking room. When asked for identiﬁ  cation, Logan gave the ofﬁ  cer a credit card 
and a Gator 1 Card, which  
displayed different names, 
according to the report.
The ofﬁ  cer then searched Logan’s wallet 
and found about 1 gram of cocaine and a fake South Carolina driver’s license, according to the report.
Police arrested Logan on charges for pos-
session of cocaine and fraud. Authorities took 
him to Alachua County Jail, where he was re-
leased Sunday afternoon on his own recogni-zance.
Logan is one of three people UPD arrested 
during the football game. UPD also ejected 170 people, including 36 UF students.
He could not be reached for comment as of 
press time.
Sixty-ﬁ  ve ejections were the result of dis-
orderly conduct followed by 44 for switching tickets, 19 for alcohol possession, 17 for not having a ticket, 13 for intoxication, ﬁ  ve for sit-ting in the wrong section, ﬁ  ve for standing on a seat, one for smoking and one for trespassing.Three arrested, 
170 ejected at 
football game
Logan
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
It was halftime of the Florida 
soccer team’s NCAA Tournament 
loss to Duke University when Cal-vin was hit by a car.
Lauren Smith, a UF midﬁ  elder 
and political science senior, and her two roommates were playing when Smith’s mother received a phone call.
The 7-month-old Great Dane-
Labrador mix had been hit by a car after he escaped their house through a window and wandered onto the street.
Smith’s twin sister Brooke 
set up a GoFundMe on Nov. 22 to help pay for Calvin’s medical bills, which doctors estimate will cost $10,000. It has since raised $7,746.
If they surpass their goal, the 
sisters said they will set up a fund for UF students who struggle to 
pay for veterinary fees.
“So many people are helping 
us, and we were like, ‘We need 
to help everyone else,’” Brooke, 22, said. 
A former UF defender, Brooke 
was in the stands at Donald R. Dizney Stadium when her mother got the phone call from her daugh-ters’ neighbor.
“She didn’t want to tell me,” 
Brooke said. “I think I’ve cried for two days since I found out.”
The ﬁ  tness and wellness se-
nior and her mother rushed to the scene of the crash, running a red light and breaking the campus speed limit.
When they reached the house, 
Brooke just wanted to know 
where her dog was.
“That was really the only thing 
I could think of,” she said. “No 
one knew how bad it was. No one knew if he was gonna make it. We knew nothing.”
After the loss to Duke, Brooke 
was joined at UF’s Small Animal Hospital by her sister and her 
roommates, including UF defend-
er Christen Westphal and UF mid-ﬁ  elder Meggie Dougherty Howard.
While Calvin has belonged to 
the twins for three months, he has become an unofﬁ  cial mascot for the UF women’s soccer team. About 30 people were in the wait-ing room when they learned Cal-vin fractured his leg in two places and shredded bones in his paws.
Doctors estimated the dog’s 
medical bills would cost $10,000.
For Lauren and Westphal, the 
potential loss of their dog was harder than the loss in their ﬁ  nal game at UF.
“We weren’t internalizing the 
loss or thinking about soccer,” Lauren said. “We were thinking about Calvin — something bigger than all of us.”
Later that night, Brooke cre-
ated the fundraising page for her dog and expected no more than a couple hundred dollars.
“We woke up the next morn-
ing and I think we were at like 2 to 3 grand,” she said. “Ten hours before, I didn’t even know what GoFundMe was.” 
It has since been shared on 
Facebook more than 500 times.
Heather McCabe, a UF alumna 
and dog owner, is one of the 246 people who have donated so far.
“It just pulled at my heart-strings seeing another dog hurt like that,” said McCabe, who do-nated $50 last week.
For now, Calvin remains in the 
hospital, but doctors expect him to go home sometime this week.“We were deﬁ  nitely lucky 
enough to have this overwhelm-ing support,” Lauren said. “I don’t know where Calvin would be right now without it.”
#BringCalHome: GoFundMe for students’ injured dog 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Calvin, a 7-month-old Great Dane-Labrador mix and an unofﬁ  cial mas-
cot for the UF women’s soccer team, was hit by a car on Nov. 22.  
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
In April 2013, a month before he took of-
ﬁ  ce as Gainesville mayor, Ed Braddy left on 
a trip to Daytona Beach with longtime friend 
Jeffery McAdams.
The trip was related to city business, 
Braddy told investigators. But McAdams, 
the former president of the local chapter of 
the Fraternal Order of Police Gator Lodge 
#67 — also known as Gator Lodge — used Gator Lodge funds to pay for their hotel rooms, Starbucks and a visit to Lollipops Gentleman’s Club, among other things.
The trip was only one of many incidents 
in which McAdams, a former Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cer and Lodge president of about 14 years, used chapter funds to pay for trips 
and purchase luxuries for himself and oth-
ers, according to a report released last week by the Florida Department of Law Enforce-ment.
The report, which said McAdams stole at 
least $56,000 from the Lodge between 2011 and April 2014, came after a year-and-a-half long investigation by the agency, which was requested by Gainesville Police. On Nov. 23, 
the same day the report was signed by Fifth 
Judicial Circuit Court of Florida Judge Jona-than D. Ohlman, McAdams turned himself in to the Marion County Jail on a charge of larceny.
He was released later that day on a 
$12,000 bond.
On Friday, Braddy addressed the accusa-
tions against McAdams during a press con-
ference, in which he apologized for what he 
called a lapse in judgement in crossing the line between a friendship and professional relationship.
“I want to acknowledge and apologize for the mistakes in judgment that I made early in my term as mayor,” he said.
Braddy declined to talk about the nature 
of the Daytona Beach trip and additional ho-
tel stays in Gainesville and Ocala, saying he 
wasn’t at liberty to go into detail because, to 
his knowledge, the inves-tigation was still ongoing.
Braddy stayed at a Hol-
iday Inn in Ocala in Sep-
tember 2013 for one night 
and at a Springhill Suites by Marriott in Gainesville in February 2014 for one 
night as well, both per-
sonal in nature, according 
to the FDLE report, which 
consists of paraphrased interviews with Lodge 
members and ﬁ  nancial 
statements.
The largest expendi-
ture by the Lodge from 
Jan. 1, 2011,  to May 30, 2014, was restaurants, ac-
cording to the FDLE. Between those dates, “excluding what was spent at the Swamp,” 
$46,218.52 went toward restaurants or bars, 
according to the report.
The FDLE also found $12,330.83 was 
spent on hotels using Lodge funds between 
Feb. 22, 2011, through May 7, 2014.
As of press time, McAdams could not be 
reached for comment on the report ﬁ  ndings.
Financial records from 2005 to 2013 also 
show McAdams and the Lodge both donat-ed to Braddy during his campaigns for com-
missioner and mayor.
“I have been friends with Jeff McAdams 
for more than a dozen years and I intend to 
continue as his friend,” Braddy said. “Dur-
ing some of my darkest times I am grateful for the friends who didn’t abandon me, and I have no intention of abandoning him.”
Braddy said he intends to make amends 
— even if that means reimbursing the Lodge for the money spent on him. Braddy said he was unaware of McAdams’ actions. If any-
thing, he said he was surprised by the ﬁ  nd-
ings.
“He’s a good guy,” Braddy said. “He has 
a good heart, and he likes to help people and he cares about cops.”
FDLE, however, found that at least sever-
al Lodge members noticed something wrong about McAdams’ spending habits prior to the investigation. Many Lodge members in-
terviewed by the FDLE for the report said 
McAdams used Lodge funds to rent a blue Ford Explorer.
While president of the Lodge, interview-
ees told investigators McAdams maintained 
control of the Lodge’s debit card.
Mike Finesilver became the Lodge’s 
general counsel in 2009 after meeting with 
McAdams. Finesilver told FDLE he began 
to distance himself from McAdams in 2010 
after observing what he believed were im-proper spending habits — including buying drinks for strangers — by McAdams.
Jaron Grifﬁ  n, who served as Lodge trea-
surer, told investigators the Lodge’s execu-tive board met with McAdams on May 17, 2014, to address his spending. The report stated McAdams said “he would curb his 
spending and urged the board members not 
to worry about past spending.”
When questioned about his use of Lodge 
funds to pay for a trip to Rhode Island, Mc-Adams called it an “oops moment,” accord-
ing to the report.
At the meeting, Grifﬁ  n asked McAdams 
to turn over the Lodge’s debit card, and the 
executive board called for McAdams’ resig-
nation as Gator Lodge president. McAdams 
refused to comply to both requests.
The next day, the report states, the debit 
card was turned in, cut in half.Braddy stands by oﬃ   cer accused of larceny
McAdams
Braddy
Report found he stole about $56,000MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
RESEARCH ROUNDUPJohn Hursh / Alligator Staff 
THE HOLIDAYS ARE COMING 
Patrons eat and drink outside Maude’s Classic Cafe at Sun Center in 
downtown Gainesville on Sunday evening. Holiday lights adorned apartments above, and temperatures dropped to a low of 57 degrees.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
UF will add 30 more gender-
neutral restrooms in December.
These restrooms will be sin-
gle-stall, meaning they will only 
be used by one person, and al-
low students who don’t conform 
with traditional gender identi-
ties to feel included, said LB Hannahs, the director of UF’s LGBT Affairs.
There will be seven gender-
neutral bathrooms in Cypress Hall, said Joselin Padron-Ra-sines, the UF Student Body president. There will also be 26 
restrooms around campus, with 
seven in the Reitz Union and 19 in academic buildings.
All of the stalls that will be 
made gender-neutral were uni-sex or family restrooms before, she said. Some of those will be kept as unisex and family rest-rooms.
Student Government will la-
bel the bathrooms with signs, which UF Housing and UF Academic Affairs will pay for, Padron-Rasines said. The signs 
were originally estimated to cost 
between $30 and $40 each, ac-cording to an SG report on the bathrooms. 
This would bring the cost 
for all 30 signs to about $900 to 
$1,200.
A task force comprised of SG 
and LGBT Affairs students was 
created in May to find bath-
rooms with signs that could be 
changed to gender-neutral. Pad-ron-Rasines said she thinks the gender-neutral bathrooms will help make all UF students feel 
included on campus.
“This is a first step,” Padron-
Rasines said.
Hannahs said finding bath-
rooms that could be converted 
took a long time.
“Obviously this (university) 
is such a large place, so it’s hard to find all the (gender-neutral) 
places,” Hannahs said.
The gender-neutral bath-rooms would not only serve transgender and nonconforming 
gender students, Hannahs said, but any student who wants to use a restroom more privately.
“It really serves all students,” 
Hannahs said.
UF adds gender-neutral restrooms
UF research team finds way to 
help those with chronic back pain
A UF research team has found a way to alleviate chronic 
back pain in older adults without using medication.
The team discovered electrical stimulation treatment, 
which decreases pain by activating receptors in the brain 
and spinal cord, can help ease back pain in those 57 to 
79 years old, said Corey Simon, a postdoctoral researcher 
in the Pain Research and Intervention Center of Excellence at the UF Clinical and Translational Science Institute. This could potentially become an alternative to prescription drugs.
The study included 60 adults who were 20 to 79 years 
old and suffered from chronic back pain. Pain is considered chronic when it lasts for at least three months, and it is prevalent among adults considered “older,” which is be-
tween 57 to 79 years old, Simon said.
The stimulation comes from a portable device about the 
size of a smartphone, and it is worth about $600, Simon 
said.  The device delivers low-voltage electrical nerve stim-ulation therapy through four adhesive pads placed on the participants’ lower backs.  
In the course of two years, the ﬁ  ve-person team learned 
all participants’ backs felt better at the end of the electrical stimulation treatments. The researchers found it interest-
ing that older adults needed a higher amplitude of electric 
stimulation to feel better, and while the stimulation isn’t intolerable, some participants found it to be tingly, prickly or ticklish, Simon said. 
The next step of the research will look at the stimulation 
therapy as an alternative to medication, which is why the study emphasized older adults using the treatment in their homes.
“It works when you use it,” Simon said. “You have to 
keep using it effectively.”
- Ashley MartinUF research team finds water 
mold can kill Florida plants
The UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences 
found new information about a water mold respon-
sible for plant damage that costs Florida growers mil-
lions of dollars annually.
The study found that phytophthora, which is Greek 
for “plant destroyer,” infected about 40 of the orna-
mental plants the researchers studied, including aza-
leas. 
The mold was also responsible for the Great Irish 
Famine of the 1840s.
“Phytophthora are very dangerous, aggressive and 
carry lots of disease-causing proteins, which they in-ject into plant cells, killing them for their own ben-
efit,” said Gul Shad Ali, a UF plant pathology assistant professor and the study’s principal investigator.
He said the goal of the study was to find out how 
genetically diverse phytophthora species are in Flor-ida. 
The group also wanted to find out if any strands of 
the species are resistant to fungicides.
“Research like this enables us to use less pesticides 
and less chemicals in protecting our crops,” Ali said.  “Understanding the genetic diversity of these para-sites helps growers prevent plant diseases naturally, which means a lower cost of production and a cheaper 
product for consumers, as well as a healthier environ-
ment overall.”
- Ryan HarkeUF professor teaches students 
how to make peppers tastier
A UF professor is teaching students how to improve 
the ﬂ  avor of peppers.
In a plant-breeding research project, horticulture 
science professor Bala Rathinasabapathi is working 
with students studying the genetic traits related to the quality of peppers’ ﬂ  avor and appearance. This will help students ﬁ  nd ways to improve the peppers’ nutri-
ents and taste by modifying the vegetables’ character-
istics, such as their acid and sugar content.
“We all know vegetables are good for you,” Rathina-
sabapathi said. “But how do you make the consumers choose more vegetables in their diet?”
By making peppers taste and look more appealing, 
more people will want to buy and eat them, he said.
“We are increasing the variety of choices for the 
consumer,” Rathinasabapathi said.
The program, which is open to all UF students, 
was created in 2010. After more than ﬁ  ve years, about 30 students have participated in it, and they work by themselves or in groups at a greenhouse on Hull Road.
“Students can come in at any time and work on one 
aspect of research,” Rathinasabapathi said.
He said he likes how the project works with all stu-
dents, not just those knowledgeable about plant genet-ics.
People need to think about their health when choos-
ing what foods to eat.
“I think we should eat a lot more vegetables and 
fruits and berries,” Rathinasabapathi said.
- Ashley MartinWhere students can ﬁ  nd 
gender-neutral restrooms:
 Cypress Hall
 Reitz Union
 Peabody Hall
 Ustler Hall
 Little Hall
 Pugh Hall
 Rolf Hall
 Entomology-
 Nematology
 Engineering Building
 Inﬁ  rmary
 Library West30 signs were addedThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
American 
politics are no 
escapist fantasy
If you had the good fortune (or misfortune, take your 
pick) of tuning into CNN this past weekend, there are strong odds you were treated to its advert for the upcom-ing Republican debate on Dec. 15. For those who haven’t seen it, allow us to set the mood: A smoky, black back-
ground is quickly juxtaposed by the loud, bright iconography of the CNN logo. A silver, WordArt-esque rendering of the word “TRUMP” appears, followed by a tasteful portrait of the orange man himself. Light runs across his smug and static face, exposing the mounds of concealer makeup meant to cover the wrinkles and blemishes accrued over a lifetime of opulence and unearned self-satisfaction. Other high-proﬁ  le Republican Party nominees (Ben Carson and Jeb Bush) are given the same treatment until the ad gets to the nominees 
no one really cares about, such as Rand Paul, Mike Hucka-
bee and Chris Christie. All the while intense, dramatic music plays, underlying how “serious” it all is.
The commercial elicited two immediate reactions from us: 
One was a spirited debate over whether Christie binge-ate from sadness after discovering he wasn’t afforded the Word-
Art treatment. The other was disbelief at the ongoing trans-
formation of politics into a spectator sport.
 Perhaps “sport” isn’t the right descriptor, since — likely 
owing in large part to our democratic system of governance — American politics have always ﬁ  t nicely into the tropes surrounding sports narratives. There are winners and los-ers, comeback kids and villains, with the additional fall from grace for equal measure. It would be disingenuous to deny the connection between sports and politics.
The better word may be “game,” which if Donald Trump’s 
ascension is any indication, is exactly what the 2016 presi-dential election is being treated as. The aforementioned CNN commercial is only a symptom, rather than a cause, of this mentality. The GOP nominees are not action heroes scaling the Nakatomi Plaza building in an attempt to foil Hans Gru-ber and his minions’ sinister plot to steal millions in bearer bonds was advertising the debate with music, which may as well have come from the John Williams songbook only un-
dermines the actual seriousness of the matter.
Unlike the machinations of games or sporting events, the 
ongoing process of politicking has a measurable, discernible 
impact on our lives. As amusing as it may be to place bets and treat election seasons as races, we seem all too quick to forget those loathed, loud characters on our TV screens directly inﬂ  uence our quality of life.
Life is too short to be treated with the utmost seriousness, 
and politics is no exception. With that said, when our culture 
actively seeks to make our political narratives appear more 
akin to those of blockbuster ﬁ  lms and escapist fantasies, it can get a little hard to keep laughing.The increasing danger of anti-liberal liberalism  
Say what you will of the political right, but at least they are politically consistent. From the decrepit-moderate branch to the slow-people bible study group that controls the most powerful country in the 
world, Republicans just want to hurt people. Jeb Bush is ﬁ  ne with “stuff” happening to the poor and disadvantaged, and Ted Cruz needs women to suffer for their chromosomal sins. Our left doesn’t know what it wants, especially in our generation, and it only wants to point out the ideological sins of its compatriots.
I’m a Democrat. I’m voting for Hillary Clinton. I look for-
ward to her winning. She is not terribly exciting, but she’s 
better than young idiot-on-the-move Marco Rubio. Sanders’ 
personality is appealing and his accent more so, but these qualities can’t make up for the mustiness of his politics and policies, which he time-traveled here with from 1969. I re-spect Ben Carson for daring to mount a campaign while still coming off of some very strong tranquilizers, but most can agree he has no place in the White House.
However, my progressive coevals do not value Hillary’s 
many accomplishments, like negotiating the Gaza ceaseﬁ  re, 
the Iran nuclear deal and the Copenhagen Protocol; they sim-
ply call her a racist fascist. The fun, energizing parts of poli-tics — indignation, polemic, chants — are more popular than ever, but the realities and exigencies of what politics can and need to do have been ignored.
This is larger than the presidential race, with another 
example being cultural appropriation. The only time I hear mention of Native Americans is when millennials, nearly college-educated, bitch about people wearing headdresses. 
It’s never about their astronomical and increasing rates of 
HIV/hepatitis/syphilis, or that eight of the 10 lowest-income American counties are majority Native American or Alaskan Native. It is clear no one genuinely cares about Native Ameri-cans, other than being culturally offended on their behalf.
These people do not know very much, except what they 
can glean from a bleary-eyed scroll through their news feeds. This news feeds’ algorithm shows users’ points of view they agree with. “Sharing” is thus entirely solipsistic and politically stillborn. Such young activists turn against all they know: progressive liberal values.
They advocate suspension of free speech and 
press: University of Missouri protesters chanted, 
“Hey hey, ho ho, reporters have got to go!” and a 
professor yelled for “some muscle” to help get an Asian American student reporter out. They advo-cate political violence: My Facebook friends laud Martin Luther King Jr. as a supposedly violent activist (he was not one) and cheer at each Jew 
stabbed in Jerusalem. 
In this worldview, those who mourn for those killed in 
Paris are only “white people” shedding crocodile tears to dis-
tract the media from the events at Yale University. These 
activists are cultural relativists but support violent theocracy. They go on SlutWalks but totemize the burqa. They like “We Fucking Love Atheism” on Facebook, but approve of mur-dering journalists who publish cartoons of the Prophet.
A comment on a photo from the Facebook page Humans 
of Tehran is the “The Diary of Anne Frank” quote, “I still believe people are really good at heart.” I am not sure the Holocaust-denying Ayatollah gives a shit. I am not sure ISIS 
cares that Joyce Carol Oates is curious to ﬁ  nd something 
“joyous” about them.
In a complex world, it is comforting to think of it divided 
into racists and anti-racists, and you are always in the right. Americans have always been a religious people. The new and insipid religion of political correctness is sinister for its mercurial embrace of self-contradiction. I once encountered “activists” who accused the “Zionist” state of “pink-wash-ing” its “apartheid crimes” by not making homosexuality a 
capital crime, as do Saudi Arabia and Iran.
When politicking is a courtship ritual, we have already 
lost. The new politics of identity and the fetishization of 
grievance will end with a left without an identity and a griev-ing nation.
Alas, no one ever got laid for supporting Hillary.Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish senior. 
Her column appears on Mondays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.org“W e seem all too quick to forget those 
loathed, loud characters on our TV 
screens directly inluence our quality 
of life.”MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Last week, a White Student 
Union page was created on Facebook under UF's 
name. Most of the posts 
allege UF doesn’t have 
enough safe spaces for Euro-pean American students whose 
culture is not celebrated enough. 
While it’s not patently clear if the page is a hoax or if it was actually created by UF students who be-lieve such ﬁ  ction, it is very apparent the 
page has become a hub for racist messag-
ing and posts that stoke fear about whites as the minority. The page aims to create a “positive and worthwhile dialogue,” but it 
actually ends up creating an unsafe space 
for anyone who doesn’t identify as a white European American by mocking the idea of institutional power. It also conﬂ  ates whiteness with being European American 
when in reality, the two are not the same 
because many Hispanic and Middle East-ern people can also be considered white but not European American. It’s clear 
those who run the page are completely un-
aware of both their privilege and their own culture. In their mocking of safe spaces, the necessity for safe spaces is only further reinforced, and we are reminded why they 
are needed in the ﬁ  rst place.
Safe spaces are often criticized for cod-
dling college students. However, they ac-
tually allow these same students a space to 
talk. It’s not about excluding people who 
have privilege, but rather, giving a voice to those who do not experience as much.
Talking about white culture isn’t taboo. In fact, it’s the default. Learning about how white people have contributed to society is what 
happens on a daily basis in ev-
ery American history class. For white people, their safe space is the entirety of UF’s campus. 
Sometimes the accomplishments 
of people of color are only cov-ered in ethnic studies classes. 
They are not considered part of Americana as a whole.
Cultures that aren’t normally celebrat-
ed and concerns that aren’t addressed need safe spaces the most. Some may be-lieve having a White Student Union is jus-
tiﬁ  able because of the existence of Asian 
American, black, Hispanic — among other cultures — student unions. People forget these speciﬁ  c unions exist to create safe spaces for students a part of other cul-
tures.  When one group has been histori-
cally rejected by the majority, it’s unfair to accuse it of being discriminatory for creat-ing its own space.
College is a place to be confronted 
with thoughts you might disagree with and challenge your knowledge about the world. Sometimes, that means sitting back and listening in order to be consid-
erate of others, but it also means speak-
ing up when you think you don’t have a safe space, just as University of Missouri students have done recently. However, 
institutional power must be taken into 
account. Celebrating white culture exclu-sively is troubling given how often white culture is celebrated every day at UF — whether it’s in a literature class that fea-
tures only white authors or a history class 
that spends 90 percent of its time on the accomplishments of white people. Instead of questioning why there is a Black Stu-
dent Union and not a white one, ask your-
self what each group’s concerns are and how you can help.
Creating a White Student Union isn’t 
about balance or equality. It’s childish and 
talks over the voices of others.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mon-
days.The pressing need for safe spaces Column
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgIn keeping with Florida’s 
tradition as a gun-friendly state, the Legislature is now preparing a bill that would allow concealed weapons 
on college campuses. Legislation like House Bill 4001 has been batted around every so often in the Florida House and Senate. For some reason or another, it always fails to become law. Now, signs in-dicate it might pass the chambers and actu-ally make it to Gov. Rick Scott’s desk.
Although some faculty and students are 
weary about possibly having concealed weapons on campus, in my estimation, this bill is not a bad idea.
Before I go into the reasons why it is 
sensible to support this new bill, I will ﬁ  rst establish that the bill’s critics will actually get what they ultimately want.
Critics say they don’t want to see weap-
ons on campus. Luckily for them, under 
House Bill 4001, they will get exactly what 
they are asking for. Concealed weapons are typically, well, for lack of a better word, concealed. Obscured. Hidden from 
view. You can’t see them. So, when Carry-
ing Carl brings his weapon on Turlington 
Plaza, you won’t know it.  
Next, critics have declared they don’t 
want just anyone to bring a gun on campus. 
Again, fortune smiles in the critics’ favor. 
Only Floridians with conceal-and-carry 
permits will be allowed to have a weapon on campus. Joe Schmo cannot willy-nilly carry on campus unless he is approved by the proper authorities. And don’t worry about the mentally ill: Per Florida law, the mentally ill cannot be issued a permit.  
Critics also claim they don’t want to 
hamper the debate of ideas in classrooms with weapons present. This will not hap-pen for two reasons: First, the weapon will be concealed, so you may not know if a gun is actually present. Second, you have probably never thought to yourself, “Thank goodness the campus is a gun-free 
environment. If it wasn’t, we would never 
be able to debate ideas.” That is a ridicu-
lous train of thought and is clearly untrue.    
Finally, critics will say they don’t want 
Florida campuses to become the new Wild West. Remarkably, that won’t happen either! 
Florida is a very gun-happy 
state. Legal guns owned by law-abiding, good people are every-where — in churches, in Wal-Mart, on I-75, everywhere — and are legal for that matter. If you are a true believer in having a gun-free society, you shouldn’t 
ever step outside. But that would also be ridiculous. There are weapons all around us in the state, and most of us never even 
notice. And that’s a good thing. I have 
lived in Florida since 2002, and I have nev-er seen a Wild West-like shootout. Allow-ing law-abiding Floridians an additional 
space to legally carry a concealed weapon 
is perfectly reasonable.  
Furthermore, Boise State University, the 
University of Idaho, Colorado State Univer-
sity and a host of other schools allow guns 
on their campuses. There has not been a 
single student shot by a student with a 
conceal-and-carry weapon.
But here’s why the bill is completely 
sensible: All of us are concerned with cam-
pus safety. Campuses are becoming more 
and more unsafe. Sexual assault occur-
rences continue to rise. According to the Miami Herald, “Police forces at Florida’s 12 state universities report being under-
staffed,” and “only ﬁ  ve campuses have po-
lice or armed security.” Also, bad people 
frequently target gun-free environments. Just a year ago, Myron May attempted to kill students in Strozier Library at Flori-da State University, which is a gun-free campus. If a law-abiding student — not a law-breaking vigilante — feels carrying a weapon on campus will make him or her feel safer, that is perfectly sensible and rea-sonable.
Additionally, carrying a weapon in a le-
gally permitted manner is constitutionally protected, just as constitutionally protect-ed as voicing opposition to the House bill.     
Regardless of whether you support or 
oppose this sensible piece of legislation, 
under House Bill 4001, you will get exactly 
what you want.   
Michael Beato is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Mondays.Don't fear concealed carry billsColumn
“It's not about 
excluding people who 
have privilege, but 
rather, giving a voice 
to those who do not 
experience as much.”
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015
ASSOCIATED PRESS
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (AP) — Rob-
ert Lewis Dear told authorities “no more baby 
parts” after being arrested for the shooting of 
a Colorado Planned Parenthood clinic, accord-
ing to a law enforcement official. This is part of a rambling statement investigators are pars-ing to understand the reasoning behind an as-
sault that left three dead.
Colorado Springs police said on Sunday 
they would not disclose any information on 
the motive for the attack, a move that guaran-tees further speculation over the intention of 
Dear, who acquaintances described as an odd, 
reclusive loner, as he prepares for his initial appearance in state court Monday.
Planned Parenthood cited witnesses as say-
ing the gunman was motivated by his opposi-tion to abortion. He killed a police officer and two civilians who were accompanying sepa-rate friends to the clinic: Jennifer Markovsky, 36, a mother of two, and Ke’Arre Stewart, 29, an Iraq War veteran and father of two.
The law enforcement official who recount-
ed Dear’s statement spoke on condition of an-onymity because the official was not allowed to publicly discuss the ongoing investigation.
Vicki Cowart, the regional head of Planned 
Parenthood, said Sunday on ABC’s “This Week” the organization has faced hateful speech.
“I can’t believe that this isn’t contributing 
to some folks, mentally unwell or not, think-
ing that it’s OK to — to target Planned Par-
enthood or to target abortion providers,” she said.
Nine other people were hospitalized, in-
cluding five officers.  Planned Parenthood shooting
THEY REMAIN IN JAIL.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested two local 
men Saturday afternoon after police said they attacked a man outside his home and 
tried to escape.
At about 11:45 a.m. Saturday, William 
B. Hernandez, 18, and Cody M. Hill, 22, 
drove to confront the father of Hernan-
dez’s girlfriend, according to a police re-
port.
After finding the man outside his home 
in the 6500 block of Northwest 25th Ter-race, Hill jumped through the air and 
kicked the man in his chest, according to 
the report.The man overpowered Hill for a mo-
ment, but Hill and Hernandez then pushed him around and paused only to pick up 
weapons, according to the report.
Hernandez, armed with a concrete 
brick, and Hill, armed with a metal pry 
bar, walked toward the man and threat-
ened to hurt him. Hernandez’s girlfriend 
then stepped in front of her father and stopped the fight, according to the report.
Police arrested the men about three 
hours later after a witness reported the li-
cense plate number on their getaway car, 
according to the report.
Police arrested Hernandez and Hill on 
charges for aggravated assault, and Hill 
received an additional charge for battery. 
Authorities took the men to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, they both remain in lieu of $20,000 bonds.Men arrested for assault, 
armed with brick and pry barBy Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
On opening night Friday, 
Charlie Mitchell said he was 
pleased.
The UF associate theater 
and dance professor had just 
watched the premiere of “The 
Snow Queen” at the Hippo-drome State Theatre, a play he was commissioned to write by Hippodrome directors. The play, which he also directed, runs un-til Dec. 20.
“The audience seemed really 
responsive,” he said. “I got a 
lot of positive comments after-
wards.”
The play, based on the fairy 
tale by Hans Christian Andersen, follows the story of a writer who moves in next to a single mother and her daughter. The writer then writes a fairy tale with the daughter as the hero, he said.
He said the play features 
eight actors, including four UF 
students and two UF alumni.
Mitchell said he went to 
great pains to 
make sure the story relates to children and adults. The 
themes revolve around friend-
ship, journeys 
and finding love again.
“Everyone can relate to love,” 
Mitchell said.
He said he has written about 
a dozen plays, but this is the first he’s written for the Hippodrome.
Lauren Warhol Caldwell, the 
artistic director at the Hippo-drome, approached Mitchell to commission the play, said Sarah Darden, the marketing and com-munications director at the Hip-podrome.
“We definitely like having 
that connection and that tie with UF,” she said.
Tickets cost $18 to $35 de-
pending on seating, and students can receive a $10 discount, she 
said.  
“I hope everyone comes out,” 
said Mitchell. “I think the UF 
community and the Gainesville community is really going to en-joy it.”
Eddie Datz, a UF theatre per-
formance freshman, said he has been looking forward to see-
ing “The Snow Queen” since 
the beginning of the semester. He makes a point to see many shows and also heard about the play in Mitchell’s theatre appre-ciation class.  
Datz said he thinks theater 
can be therapeutic for students and helps to relax their brain.
“All you care about for two 
hours is the Snow Queen or whatever’s going on,” he said.UF professor writes ‘Snow Queen’
Mitchell
CAMPUS
By August Plamann
Alligator Contributing Writer
Mike Gil hated science as a kid. 
Now, the UF doctoral graduate makes 
marine biology videos and hopes to en-
courage a love for discovery.
 This Fall, he finished his Ph.D. in biol-
ogy at UF and began an online video series 
called “Confessions of a Marine Biologist,” 
which can be found on sciall.org and the 
sicall.org YouTube channel.
The videos, which have a few hundred 
to tens of thousands of views, show Gil diving through the Pacific Ocean while 
hand-drawn animations jump across the 
screen. 
He said the videos serve to teach people who aren’t immersed in the science field what his research is really like, he said.
“I’m trying to show people the behind-
the-scenes side of my life as a marine biol-ogist to make them more comfortable with how intuitive of a process science is and how accessible scientific work can be,” he 
said.
Although the 30-year-old intended to 
study journalism when he pursued his 
undergraduate degree at the University of 
Texas, he said he found his calling when 
he studied coral reefs around Lizard Is-land, Australia. 
People in Gil’s hometown of Humble, 
Texas, didn’t understand his research. He 
said he created the videos to share marine 
biology with people who hadn’t seen it be-fore.
“Science is meant to be accessible, ex-
citing and beneficial for all,” he said.
Anya Brown, a community ecology doc-
toral student at the University of Georgia, worked alongside Gil at UF.  
She wrote in an email that she thinks 
Gil’s website and YouTube channel show another side of science.
“It’s not all lab coats and pipettes,” 
Brown, 28, said. “Sometimes it’s driving boats and attaching corals or algae to cin-derblocks to understand how a community works.”
Gil said he’s looking forward to the fu-
ture. 
In Spring, he will spread his love for 
marine ecology to students in Akumal, Mexico, as part of the UF Biology Depart-ment’s Immersion Semester.  
As one of six hands-on courses offered 
by the program throughout the Spring, Gil said his class will let students experience what it’s like to conduct real-life marine 
experiments in the field.
He’ll continue to post videos while 
abroad, he said.
“Science is not just a collection of bor-
ing facts,” he said. “It truly is an acces-sible, intuitive process that anyone can 
engage in.”Science for all: UF grad makes marine biology videos
AP Photo
ART BASEL 
An artist paints a piece in the Wynwood area for Miami Art Week on 
Sunday. There are more than a dozen distinct pop-up art festivals dur-ing Miami Art Week and Art Basel in the first week of December.Play is about finding love“Science is not just a collection of 
boring facts.”
Mike Gil
UF doctoral graduate
“I can’t believe that this isn’t 
contributing to some folks, mentally 
unwell or not, thinking that it’s OK to 
— to target Planned Parenthood or to 
target abortion providers.”
Vicki Cowart
regional head of Planned ParenthoodBy Spencer Harvey
Alligator Contributing Writer
Christmas came early in 
Gainesville as Santa lit the Christ-
mas tree in Tioga Town Center.
Children cheered as the tree lit 
up with silver lights during the third 
annual Tioga Holiday Festival and 
Tree Lighting, which took place 
Sunday from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m.
This is the first year the tree 
lighting ceremony has been a fes-
tival instead of a parade, said Jen-
nifer Reaves, an associate account executive of Frankel Media Group, the company that coordinated the event. Activities also included train 
rides, pony rides, a bounce house, 
carnival games and food vendors.
Santa Claus arrived at 6 p.m. to 
light the Christmas tree.
“The lighting of the Christmas 
tree is my favorite part,” Reaves said. “I feel like it starts off the Christmas season and gets everyone in the Christmas spirit.”
She said Tioga Town Center of-
fers these activities as a community service. They are part of the ongoing schedule of family-centered events.     
Sheryl Russell, an artist for Cre-ative Room Solutions and a vendor at the festival, said it was the perfect opportunity to reach out to families and potential clients.
“I love socializing and seeing 
all of the kids’ faces.” Russell said. “It’s that time of year when people are excited about Christmas coming 
and it’s wonderful to see all of the 
kids happy.”
The UF a capella group Tone Def 
also performed Christmas songs, mashup songs and medleys for the 
crowd.
“I have been listening to Christ-
mas music since Halloween, so I’m 
excited to spread the holiday spirit,” 
said Katherine Graham, an 18-year-
old music freshman who performed with the group. “I love seeing peo-ple’s faces when I sing Christmas music to them.”
LEFT:
Amanda McGinnes, a 27-year-
old insurance sales agent, holds her 7-month-old son Valor as her 7-year-old daughter Allison Chamberlin tries to feed him food from Fork & Pasta. “We came last year during the sum-mer, so this is our first time at-tending the Christmas festival, ” she said.
Photos by Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
An early Christmas
Kelly Anderson, a 30-year-old clinical lab scientist and Olivia Hamner, 14 months old, look at their reflections on Christmas decorations after the tree lighting ceremony on Sunday.Tree was lit in Tioga
Families gather around the front stage to watch the Cameron Dancenter performance of “Cinderella” at the Tioga T own Center on Sunday.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
$325 one large room with patio in two-one with mature female student. Split electric, high speed internet free, washer/dryer/dish -
washer in unit. Bus route 34, 35, 36, 38 (352) 631-0737     11-30-15-10-1
NW townhome to share. Large master suite, attached full bath and adjoining, sep. living/office. Maid service, cable, and ALL utilities included. Pool/tennis. $595/mo plus security. 352-281-3227.    11-30-15-5-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For 
August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-
2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
11-25-15-10-2
3300 SW 23rd St. Apt #1, 2BR/1BA w/ small separate study/office, large screened porch & W/D hk-ups, floors: tile & wood, new kitch-en. $800/mo. $950 sec dep. Pets ok w/add'l fees. Call 352-371-3473 pls leave mssg.    12-9-15-8-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
One bedroom/one bath in 4br/4bath condo $350/mo. Countryside condominiums, 4000 SW 23rd St. Includes Internet, cable TV lami-nate flooring, washer & dryer. Furnished or unfurnished. 1st floor location. Students only. Call Bill (407) 620-0401    12-9-15-8-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-12-7
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-9-15-73 -10 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished 4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 10 For SaleMONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-1293 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-30-15-28-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    12-9-15-17-14
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
COORDINATOR, friendly solo healthcare prac-tice. 10-14 hrs/wk. $11-14/hr. Pt. contact, records, accounts, HIPAA, ICD10 billing, scheduling, orga-nization/filing, phones, referrals. Non-smo.w/car. Spanish a+. FAX resume: 352-377-3193.    12-4-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
CPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYBecause Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Beatle Paul’s first
wife
6 Second-string
squad
11 Tummy muscles
14 Lunchbox
cookies
15 Hardship
16 “Nope”
17 Started to sneeze
and cough, say
19 Org. promoting
hunter safety
20 Basil or
rosemary
21 IV monitors22 Honor __ thieves24 Musical Apple26 Exposed28 Really worked
hard
34 Critter that sleeps
floating on its
back
35 National Anthem
starter
36 Kitten cry37 Gen-__: post-
baby boomers
38 Camera setting40 Wait41 Small S.A.
country
42 Red Sox star 
Big __
43 Panama divider44 Paid for
everyone’s
dinner
48 Exhausted
49 Fit for sainthood50 Catcher’s
position
52 Holiday tree
53 Rock’s Mötley __57 Continent north
of Afr.
58 Taken away in
handcuffs ... and
a hint to thestarts of 17-, 28-and 44-Across
62 Aragon aunt
63 Argue the
opposingviewpoint
64 Hit half of a
record
65 Home of the
Cardinals: Abbr.
66 Small and
glittering, like
eyes
67 Terminate the
missionDOWN
1 Scot’s swimming
spot
2 “Dies __”: hymn
3 Nerve: Pref.
4 Wounds from an
aggressive pooch
5 Silvery gray
6 Godfather
portrayer
7 Muscle twitches8 Self-image9 “You’ve got mail”
company
10 Elizabeth
Bennet’s suitor in
“Pride and
Prejudice”
11 In the year of the
Lord, in dates
12 Farm building13 Layered haircut18 Walked23 “Not so great”25 According to26 Kiss from Carlos27 “Do it yesterday!”
on memos
28 Pack in cartons
29 Wombs
30 Like earthquake
damage
31 Inept waiter’s
comeuppance
32 Foot-operated
lever33 “Peachy!”
38 Gradually vanish39 Tater40 Nursery furniture
with bars
42 Bother43 Animation frame45 Seoul-based
Soul maker
46 Minimum age for
a U.S. senator
47 Jewish wedding
dance
50 Tennis divisions51 Give notice52 Animosity
spanningdecades
54 Change the
decor of
55 __-friendly56 State, in France59 Wedding page
word
60 Corp. alias
letters
61 Pretoria’s land:
Abbr.
By Don Rosenthal©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/30/1511/30/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, November 30, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Stop the launch
6 Perfume
compound
11 Sailor14 Off-the-cushion
shot
15 Usually
multilayereddessert
16 Load off one’s
mine?
17 Yorkshire pudding
or bangers andmash
19 Sundial topper20 Classic Belafonte
song opening
21 Not tricked by22 Homeric classic24 Where heros are
made
26 __ button
28 Sufferer healed
by Jesus
31 Game-ending
declaration
35 Bledel of “Gilmore
Girls”
37 Creative output
38 Where billions
live
39 Watch someone’s
kids
40 Lightweight shirts
43 Television
44 Ellington’s “Take
__ Train”
46 “Et alia” lang.47 Letter-erasing key49 Genre of the ’60s
hits “Pipeline” and“Wipe Out”
52 Wyoming’s __
Range
53 Benjamin of “Law
& Order”
54 Ibuprofen target56 Trapdoor location58 Capital south of
Lillehammer
60 Ottawa-based law
gp.
64 Not in the clergy65 Wholeheartedly,
or words that canprecede the firstand second parts,respectively, of17-, 31- and 49-Across
68 __ well69 Actress Téa70 “Inferno” poet71 Opposite of post-72 Diving ocean
birds
73 Prince
Charming’s
mount
DOWN
1 More than just
passed
2 See 25-Down3 Frenzied revelry4 Low-tech card file5 “No more details,
please”
6 Sharing a
common culture
7 Low on the Mohs
scale
8 Highway officers9 WWII area
10 Symbol of losses
11 Dead weight in a
portfolio
12 Opera number
13 Senator Harry18 Sun, in Sonora
23 Peru’s largest city
25 With 2-Down,
“Hulk” star
27 Did something28 Endures29 Philanthropist
Yale
30 “Everybody Loves
Raymond” actor32 French-speaking
island country
33 Connect with34 Consumed
36 Pierre’s toast
41 Elephant ancestor42 Son of Adam45 __-American48 Ogles obliquely
50 Sculptor’s
medium
51 French port on
the Strait of Dover55 Sell a bridge to,
say?
56 Producer’s
nightmare
57 Hideaway
59 Word sung after
the ball drops
61 Construction area
marker
62 Remote button63 Begged
66 Not ’neath
67 Canine doc’s deg.?
By Victor Barocas©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/25/1511/25/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, November 25, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted
 19 Connections 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Amanda Butler and the 
Florida women's basketball team captured the OMNI Hotels Classic over the weekend. Read the story online 
at www.alligator.org/sports. By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Prior to No. 12 Florida’s second possession 
of its 27-2 loss to No. 13 Florida State on Sat-
urday, a former UF great, running back Fred Taylor, took the ﬁ  eld to be honored as UF’s 2015 Southeastern Conference Living Legend.
He received a raucous ovation from the re-
cord 90,916 who packed into The Swamp for Florida’s regular-season ﬁ  nale.
And while the Gators suffered their fourth-
most lopsided loss to the Seminoles in the ri-valry’s 60-year history, Fred’s son — tailback Kelvin Taylor — gave Gator fans reason for optimism in the game.
Kelvin rushed for a season-high 136 yards 
against FSU, with three of his 24 runs going for at least 20 yards.
It was his fourth game with at least 100 
yards on the ground in the last ﬁ  ve outings.
The junior now has 977 yards on the sea-
son, putting him on the brink of being Flor-ida’s ﬁ  rst 1,000-yard rusher since Mike Gil-lislee in 2012.
“This guy plays with energy, practices 
with energy, plays hard,” UF coach Jim McEl-wain said. “He loves to play the game. He loves his teammates. It’s great to see.”
Despite playing behind an inexperienced 
and makeshift offensive line and with a life-less passing game, Kelvin has found success late this season.
In the ﬁ  rst seven games of the season, 
Kelvin rushed for 463 yards and eight touch-
downs on 129 carries (3.6 yards per carry).
But in the last ﬁ  ve games, he has tallied 
514 yards and ﬁ  ve touchdowns on 112 runs 
(4.6 yards per carry).
He had seven runs of at least 20 yards in 
the last ﬁ  ve games, highlighted by a 53-yard scamper against South Carolina three weeks ago that set up Florida’s game-sealing touch-down.
He had just one such run through the ﬁ  rst 
seven games.
Kelvin’s 13 touchdowns this year are tied 
with his dad and Emmitt Smith’s 1987 cam-paign for ﬁ  fth most in a single season in UF history.
“I was really impressed, really all season, 
(with) the way he’s fought,” tight end Jake McGee said. “There haven’t been any big 
holes for him but he’s been running his tail 
off and really giving everything he has to this football team and this program.”
But with the Gators struggling to sustain 
drives against FSU, Kelvin’s efforts on Satur-day went mostly without beneﬁ  t.
Of Florida’s 13 full drives, nine ended in 
punts, two ended in a turnover on downs and two resulted in missed Austin Hardin ﬁ  eld 
goals.
“They made some plays and we didn’t,” 
McElwain said. “It’s plain and simple. We 
had opportunities. Didn’t feel like we took ad-vantage of them. That’s something we’ve got 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
UF volleyball hosting opening rounds of NCAA tourney
The UF volleyball team earned the No. 11 seed in the NCAA T ournament 
and will  face New Hampshire on Thursday. Florida State and Arizona State is the other first-round matchup. The winners of both matches play on Friday. Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sports. Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF running back Kelvin T aylor rushes during Florida's 27-2 loss to Florida State 
on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
One day after being trounced by 
Florida State 27-2, Florida was back 
to its winning ways, albeit off the 
ﬁ  eld and on the recruiting trail.
The Gators picked up three ver-bal commitments for the 2016 class, 
including arguably their biggest commitment in the class in four-star 
quarterback Feleipe Franks. 
Franks tweeted out his commit-
ment to Jim McElwain and his staff 
on Sunday night: “It’s great to be a Florida Gator! #Committed,” fol-
lowed by a Gator emoji.  The Craw-
fordville, Florida, 
native was previ-
ously commit-ted to LSU, but he decommitted from the Tigers on Nov. 23, and 
according to 
247Sports he’s unofﬁ  cially visited 
UF during the Gators’ past three home games.Franks is now the highest rated 
commitment in the class for the Gators. 
He joined offensive lineman 
Jawaan Taylor and junior college wide receiver Dre Massey as players who committed to Florida on Sun-day.
Taylor, who ﬂ  ipped his com-
mitment from Miami to Florida, is a three-star offensive lineman who projects to play guard in college. Massey is a three-star receiver who is currently enrolled at Holmes Com-munity College in Mississippi and 
will be a junior when he enrolls at 
Florida.  
Florida’s recruiting class currently 
has 26 verbal commits and is ranked in the top 10 in the 2016 recruiting 
class according to 247Sports. 
All verbal commitments are non-
binding until recruits sign their letter 
of intent.Four-star quarterback highlights trio of 2016 verbal commitsTORRES TELLS IT
It was only a matter of time before the 
Gators’ weaknesses caught up to them.
Florida was living on the edge the 
past four games, counting on its offense 
to make just enough plays and leaving 
the rest up to the defense to make it a grind-it-out type of win. 
It’s been that same formula for the Gators 
in the past three games leading up to their rivalry game against Florida State.
Against the Seminoles — a team that had 
more overall talent on its roster — the Gators couldn’t follow the same formula that got them those ugly wins against Vanderbilt, South Carolina and Florida Atlantic.
I kept wondering to myself how Florida 
was able to pull off each win while over-coming deﬁ  ciencies at multiple positions and still having hope for a College Football 
Playoff spot.
The potential of those deﬁ  ciencies com-
ing back and costing the Gators has existed 
for most of the season, but it started to get bad back in their 9-7 win against Vanderbilt on Nov. 7 that clinched a spot in the South-eastern Conference Championship Game.
The game against the Commodores was 
a sign of things to come for Florida’s of-
fense and special teams: a lack of consistent 
quarterback play from Treon Harris and an inconsistent kicking game that ironically UF's deﬁ  ciencies 
ﬁ  nally caught up 
with it against FSUTaylor a bright spot for Florida's oﬀ  ense
SEE KELVIN,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIII
All are non-binding
Franks
but not as much for Alabama.
McElwain is now in Gainesville 
working to build the program he 
helped bury, and he’s set to face the coach who helped propel him up 
the coaching ranks. He remembers 
working at Fresno State in 2007 and getting that initial call from Saban.
“I think when he first called, I 
actually might have hung up think-ing it was one of my buddies busting my chops, not knowing he had a job opening,” McElwain said of when Saban first offered him the job. “I 
owe a ton to coach Saban and what 
he gave me an opportunity to do.”
Saban hadn’t heard of McElwain 
until Pat Hill, who was in the midst of a 15-year head coaching tenure with Fresno State with McElwain as his offensive coordinator, recom-mended his oft-sockless colleague to Saban.
“Pat Hill … told me that Jim was 
a really good coach and did a good job and when we had an opening, I sort of always did a pretty thorough job of trying to look around to see who’s available and who we might be able to get to come here to be our offensive coordinator,” Saban recalled. 
“Jim was one of those guys, but 
because Pat Hill thought so much of him, I trusted him. That went a long way, and then when I met Jim and talked to him, worked with him, I was certainly happy with the deci-
sion to have him on our staff.”McElwain joked and said Ala-
bama’s offense has gotten better un-
der offensive coordinator Lane Kif-fin, but he took a serious approach when it came to discussing how to stop Alabama’s star running back Derrick Henry.
Arguably the front-runner for the  
Heisman Trophy, Henry has rushed 
for 1,797 yards and 22 touchdowns 
while claiming the Crimson Tide all-time single-season rushing record.
After LSU’s Leonard Fournette 
torched the Gators for 180 yards and two touchdowns and FSU’s Dalvin Cook gashed them for 183 yards and a pair of scores as well, UF knows it must make a statement when they 
meet Henry on the field in the Geor-
gia Dome.
“All I can say is wow,” McElwain 
said when asked about his thoughts on Henry. “In a long line of great run-ning backs that were there, I think it’s a testament to Coach Saban and what they’re committing to doing year in and year out. ... We’ve got 
our work cut out for trying to jump 
on his back and slow him down.”
UF may be heading into Atlanta 
lacking momentum and without consistent quarterback play, but McElwain’s familiarity with Saban gives the Gators an intangible to prepare with: leadership that is well-versed in the inner workings of the 
Crimson Tide’s program. 
It’s something Florida will pre-
pare to capitalize on with the hopes 
of re-establishing an identity that is unsatisfied with being successful solely in the regular season. 14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015
FOOTBALL,  from pg1UF has won 8 SEC titles
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF linebacker Jarrad Davis (40), tackles FSU running back Dalvin Cook. The Gators contained Cook for three quarters before the sophomore scored two fourth-quarter touchdowns.
LEFT: Florida football coach 
Jim McElwain walks off the 
field following Florida’s loss to Florida State. It was McElwain’s first loss in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium this season.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
BELOW:  Florida fans watch in dis-
belief during the loss on Satur-day. A record 90,916 people at-
tended the game
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
capped off that very game with 
game-winning field goal from Austin Hardin.
But since then, Hardin has 
gone back to his regular form of 
either missing field goals or hav-
ing them blocked because he can’t kick them high enough to get them over the linemen, some-thing he’s been called out on by 
coach Jim McElwain on numer-
ous occasions.
Hardin has fallen out of favor 
with McElwain, who seems to have already moved on from the redshirt junior kicker.
“We’ll get a kicker. That’s our responsibility, and we’ll get one,” McElwain said after the FSU game. “And we’ll get a good one.” 
While UF’s kicking game is the 
worst I’ve seen at the collegiate level, the passing offense is al-most just as bad.
Harris showed flashes against 
LSU and against Georgia, but even then he missed open receiv-er after open receiver. 
Against FAU, McElwain said 
Harris looked spooked, and 
against the Seminoles, Harris was 
worse, constantly getting hap-py feet and taking unnecessary sacks.
Fans have called on McElwain 
to bench Harris, but here’s the reality of the situation: Harris is the best option the Gators have at quarterback because Josh Grady 
is a wide receiver trying to be a 
signal caller.
Harris’ confidence has to be 
low because of how poorly he played against Florida State, but the players on the team and his coach are behind him.
“He’s our guy. We got com-
plete confidence in him,” tight 
end Jake McGee said. 
Added McElwain: “He’s our 
quarterback and he’s going to get 
a little bit better this week as we go on to the SEC Championship Game, playing a pretty darn salty defense. But you know what, we’ve got to get a little bit better this week.”
Now, the Gators have to get 
ready to face the Alabama Crim-son Tide, a team that’s No. 2 in the country and has a coach — Nick Saban — who will make Har-ris throw the ball to beat them. 
In addition, Hardin is essen-
tially out of the question.  
It’s only going to get uglier 
for Florida and Co., and the fi-nal score might be determined by how much mercy Saban has on his former offensive coordinator.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Treon Harris looks to pass during Florida's 27-2 loss to Florida State on Saturday 
at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
By Madison Belfour
Alligator Writer
@madisonbel4
When asked if he had any pre-match rituals, 
Florida men's tennis player Chase Perez-Blanco 
had a simple answer.
“I don’t shower for the season.” he said 
with a slight pause. “Just kidding,” Perez-Blan-
co said and then laughed. 
The sophomore has seen his share of ups 
and downs when it comes to playing for the Gators. With the Fall season having ended, Per-
ez-Blanco is looking to improve while pushing himself to tackle new challenges.
When Perez-Blanco first stepped foot on 
UF's campus last Fall, he was by no means im-mune to the struggles that most freshmen face. 
The Miami native admits that he was a lazy 
student with a bad work ethic when he started college. 
A lack of focus made it difficult for him to 
excel in the classroom.
Coach Bryan Shelton knew Perez-Blanco 
had talent, but being a student athlete at UF re-quires a heightened level of focus. 
So when the young tennis player was strug-
gling with classes, Shelton took it upon himself to push Perez-Blanco harder than most of the other players.
Shelton has stressed to Perez-Blanco that it 
is a privilege not just to play tennis at UF, but to attend the school in the first place.
Perez-Blanco said he thought going to class-
es and seeing his tutors would be enough to get by. 
It wasn’t.Now, while studying applied physiology 
and kinesiology, the student-athlete has found his balance. 
Perez-Blanco credits the improvement in his 
grades to better time management and taking a more proactive approach to his education. 
"It’s a lot," Perez-Blanco said, "but you 
have to decide how to manage your time really well.”
While Perez-Blanco improved his grades, 
his tennis game still had room for improve-
ment. 
The transition from the high school level 
to the collegiate level was difficult for Perez-
Blanco, a five-star right-hander and the No. 29 overall recruit in the 2014 class (No. 3 in the 
state of Florida). 
He lacked direction, and he was worried 
about living up to the expectations everyone 
had for him.
But soon enough, he found a mentor and 
friend in now-senior and captain Diego Hidal-go. When confused about what to do, Perez-Blanco said he would look to Hidalgo for help and guidance. He credits his outstanding fresh-
man season to Hidalgo always motivating him.
“He pushed me and made me want to be a 
better tennis player," Perez-Blanco said. "Don’t 
tell him I said any of that though.”
Perez-Blanco also faces some disadvantages 
when it comes to his physical limitations.
The 5-foot-8 sophomore is one of the two 
shortest players on the team with junior Elliott Orkin. 
Being on the shorter end of the height spec-
trum is a disadvantage for many tennis players.
It makes it harder to hit big serves and play 
a strategy known as serve and volley, where the player serves the ball and automatically runs to the net to hit a returning volley.
Since Perez-Blanco is usually shorter than 
his opponents, he often has to compensate by outrunning them.
Perez-Blanco and Shelton both acknowl-
edged the fact that he was not in the best of shape when he first came to UF, which hin-
dered his play. 
He would pace himself, according to Shel-
ton, because he would run out of energy too 
quickly if he would spend a few minutes on every play.
As a way for Perez-Blan-
co to improve his endur-ance, Shelton and assistant coach Mark Merklein make 
Perez-Blanco put in extra time running and building up his endurance.
The improvement to his 
game is not lost on Perez-Blanco. 
He didn’t grow up in a household of tennis 
players. Neither his parents nor siblings played the sport.
Around the age of 7, however, his parents 
enrolled him in an All-Sport camp where Perez-Blanco was first introduced to the game of ten-nis. Instantly he fell in love.
"I just picked up tennis from there," he said, 
"and I loved it and have been playing ever since.”
Not only did his parents kickstart his tennis 
career, but to this day they continue to be a 
source of support and encouragement for him. 
Perez-Blanco recalls the times that his par-
ents would have to sacrifice their personal lives 
and their jobs to allow him to travel and play as his career advanced.
Even though his family lives about five 
hours away from Gainesville, they still manage to show up at matches from time to time. 
Several times last season, Perez-Blanco 
would look up into the stands and see familiar faces cheering him on. He recalled how nice it was to see his parents’ faces in the crowd for his first match as a Gator.
“They enjoyed it, which brought a smile to 
my face,” he said.
Although the bond within the Perez-Blanco 
family is very strong, Chase knew that when Signing Day came around he was ready to go out on his own and be away from his family.
Perez-Blanco captured impressive titles 
while at Gulliver Preparatory School . In 2011, 2013 and 2014 he brought home state champi-onship titles along with other awards and ac-colades. 
In 2013 he was named a USTA Florida Play-
er of the Year and took home the singles state championship title. 
Gulliver Preparatory School coach Kelly 
Mulligan described Perez-Blanco as an all-around quality player who always knew how to get the job done.
“Chase always made it important to play. 
He was always committed,” Mulligan said.
It was during his junior year that Perez-
Blanco caught Shelton's eye.
Shelton said he can still recall the exact mo-
ment when he knew that Perez-Blanco was a special player. 
Perez-Blanco was up against a higher ranked 
player, Henrik Wiersholm who currently plays for the University of Virginia, and defeated him in three sets.
“Right then I put this guy on my radar and 
made sure to continue to follow this guy and recruit him, especially since he is from the state of Florida,” Shelton said. “We don’t want this guy to get away,”
In his junior year of high school Perez-
Blanco came and toured the UF campus and instantly felt a sense of belonging. 
So when signing day came around and he 
was between the University of Miami and UF, 
there really was no choice for him.
“It was a good choice,” he said. “The right 
one.” It's all about the Chase
COLUMN,  from pg 13
to learn from.”
Saturday’s loss was more than 
likely Kelvin’s final game in The 
Swamp.
With him wrapping up a career 
year, a senior season could provide more harm than good.
But while a decision is looming as 
to whether to declare for the draft, Kelvin said he isn’t worrying about that yet.
The Gators have a date with No. 
2 Alabama in the SEC Championship on Saturday and a bowl game to fol-
low.
With those two games still to be 
played, Kelvin’s focus is making sure 
Florida finishes its season on a high note.
“We got a really big game ahead 
of us,” Kelvin said. “I’m ready to just get back in the film room and see what I could’ve done better and 
what my teammates could’ve done 
better for us to be successful on of-fense.”KELVIN,  from pg 13Taylor 
is unsure 
about his 
future at UFSophomore shining for UF tennis
Perez-Blanco
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2015
