VOLUME 109 ISSUE 94 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Turlington gets weird
Catch a glimpse of the bizarre costumes on pg 8.  
Local organizations work to reduce waste of GNV businesses 
They’re working with Gainesville Compost, pg 3. University Gallery celebrates 50th 
birthday, wants new visitors
An exhibition was dedicated to the founder, pg. 9.Lauren Haeger 
will assume a larger 
role in the pitcher’s 
circle for the UF 
softball team this 
season. Read the 
story on page 14.
64/53
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
A new elections commissioner 
was barely approved after much 
controversy during Tuesday night’s UF Student Senate meeting.
Two weeks ago, three students 
were appointed election commis-sioners. One of them, Christel Har-lacher, resigned due to a conﬂ  ict with one election date.  
The election commission is the 
ﬁ  rst to hear about election com-plaints. From there, the group rules on a resolution.
Normally, an election commis-
sioner is selected by the UF Student Body president, UF Student Senate president and UF Supreme Court chief justice then approved by the Senate. Because Harlacher resigned, a new seat had to be ﬁ  lled before the Spring 2015 elections. The UF Supreme Court unanimously nomi-
nated Austin Sherman for the posi-
tion, to be approved by the Senate.
Sen. Preston Jones objected and brought to light Sherman’s heavy involvement with the Swamp Party as majority leader two years ago, as well as multiple high-level roles in Student Senate as a member of Swamp.
Sherman served as chair of the 
judiciary committee from June 2013 to May 2014 and as budget and ap-
propriations committee vice chair 
for the Spring 2013 semester.
According to the 700 election codes, a student must not have a party afﬁ  liation for an election cycle, which is one semester. Sherman was a student senator in Spring 2014, ac-cording to Alligator archives.  
Sherman, a ﬁ  rst-year law student 
at the UF Levin College of Law, was inactive for Fall 2014, so he qualiﬁ  es. But senators still raised concerns.
Sen. Stephanie Wong said elect-
ing Sherman wouldn’t be fair to stu-
Student Senate selects new elections commissioner
CYANNE DUNN and HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writers cdunn@alligator.org
hwilliamson@alligator.org
“To Kill a Mockingbird” debuted 55 years 
ago, and this summer, its sequel is set to hit shelves.
In the mid-1950s, Harper 
Lee, author of the famed 
novel, wrote “Go Set a 
Watchman” — which fea-tured a female adult charac-ter named Scout.
But her editor responded 
more to Scout’s ﬂ  ashbacks to childhood and persuaded her to change the novel’s point of view, Lee said in a press release.
A “ﬁ  rst-time writer,” Lee took her editor’s 
advice and penned “To Kill a Mockingbird.”
The original manuscript of “Go Set a Watch-
man” was thought to have been lost. But it was discovered in the fall of 2014 by Lee’s lawyer, Tonja Carter.
“After much thought and hesitation I 
shared it with a handful of people I trust and was pleased to hear that they considered it 
worthy of publication,” Lee said in the release.
“Go Set a Watchman” is said to focus on 
Scout’s relationship with her father, Atticus, 
and the struggles of adulthood in the mid-1950s.
According to HarperCollins Publishers, the 
book will be published July 14, and its release is stirring conﬂ  icting opinions.
Stephanie Smith, associate chair, under-
graduate coordinator and professor for the UF English Department, said “To Kill a Mocking-bird” has endured as a classic because of the subjects it tackled, such as Jim Crowism in Harper Lee’s 
sequel excitesUF bookworms 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Francesca Faborule, a 19-year-old UF business sophomore, prepares for slating on the third ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union on 
Tuesday afternoon.
 IT’S ALMOST 200 MORE THAN LAST SPRING.
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  geueroa@alligator.org
The ﬁ  nal day for qualifying and slating 
broke records, with more than 800 students 
slating over the past three days.
Slating, or running with a political 
party, took place in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom. A total of 801 students slated 
and qualiﬁ  ed.According to Alligator archives, 610 to-
tal students qualiﬁ  ed and slated during the Spring 2014 elections. In 2013, 513 students slated, and in 2012, 659 slated, according to Alligator archives.
UF Supervisor of Elections Hans Rojas 
said 489 students slated Tuesday, with 377 for Swamp Party, 108 for Access Party and 
4 either independent or unidentiﬁ  ed.
Andrew Glenn, 20, said he slated for a 
sophomore seat with Access because he 
feels the party is inclusive to all students.
“It takes every student from every back-ground and includes them in this melting pot,” the UF criminology sophomore said.
Sabrina Philipp, a UF political science 
junior, slated for a CLAS seat with Swamp because of the party’s heavy involvement with student organizations such as the Pride Student Union.
“Swamp has been really supportive 
of Pride Student Union, and that is what I care about most above all,” Philipp, 20, said.
Candidates will be notiﬁ  ed today if they 
were chosen.Slating numbers highest in recent yearsHis past SG positions sparked debate
SEE HARPER, PAGE 4SEE SENATE, PAGE 4
Lee
News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 94 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
SUNNY
73/52SUNNY
70/39SUNNY
63/36PARTLY
CLOUDY
64/37SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
RAIN
64/54
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. low the screening. Join us on 
February 12th at 3:00 p.m. at the International Center.
Cinema Verde seeks vendors
The sixth annual Cinema Verde environmental film and arts festival is seeking environmentally conscious vendors for our eco-fair tak-ing place Saturday, Feb. 14., at the Paramount Plaza Hotel. Please contact Trish@cine-maverde.org.  For more infor-
mation about the festival visit 
http://www.cinemaverde.org/. Thank you!
Valentines for Veterans Spirit 
of America, Gainesville Civic Chorus Master ChoraleMusic is the poetry of the air. Its use has made a powerful 
impact during times of war; 
it bolstered those serving on the front lines as well as those waiting at home. Come hear songs that helped those in battle or eulogized those who passed in the name of freedom. Join us in saluting our veterans in song on Feb. 
14 at 7:30 p.m. at the First 
United Methodist Church, 419 First St., Gainesville. For more information, visit www.GCChorus.org.
‘A T. rex Named Sue’ Loves 
You: A Valentine’s Night at the Museum
Spend Valentine’s evening 
at the Florida Museum of Natural History playing triv-ia games with your favorite gal, “A T. rex Named Sue.” The program fee includes ad-mission to “A T. rex Named Sue” and participation in the museum’s Trivia Night. The 
museum is open from to 10 
p.m. for this event; trivia be-gins at 7:30 p.m. Paid upon entry to the Florida Museum, the program fee is $10 per person or $15 per couple and free for museum members and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. “A Valentine’s 
Night at the Museum” is for 
adults only (ages 18 and up). Preregistration is required. For more information, call 352-273-2061.
Artist in the Round at the 
Matheson History Museum
Learn how to become a bet-ter writer and hear musical 
masterpieces unfold around 
you with a lesson and 
presentation by the Dixie Desperados on Feb. 19 from 6 to 8 p.m. A similar event 
will be March 12 at the same 
time, featuring a lesson and 
presentation by Stan Lynch, the former drummer of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers.WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Study Abroad Fair
Discover new cultures, increase 
your global awareness, en-hance your foreign language skills, make friends, establish 
new contacts, strengthen your 
resume and intern abroad. All of these opportunities will be available Wednesday at the Study Abroad Fair on the Plaza of the Americas from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. For additional infor-mation visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or email dmcneil@
ufic.ufl.edu.
Creative Writing Club
Do you love to write? Want to 
improve your writing skills while making new friends? Then come to the Creative Writing Club every Wednesday at 3 p.m. in Matherly Hall, 
Room 014. Meetings involve 
reading and responding to a short story written by a mem-ber of the group and then discussing the story with the whole group with a focus on constructive criticism. There are no requirements to join; just come and have fun with us.
‘The More Things Change, The 
More They Remain the Same: Race In America’Thursday at 5 p.m. in Pugh Hall, the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program presents the Alice Mary Baldwin Professor of History at Duke University, 
William Chafe, who will de-
liver a lecture entitled, “The More Things Change, The More They Remain the Same: Race in America.” Chafe will discuss how the 1890s led to state repression and institu-tionalized Jim Crow; how the movement reversed that pro-
cess; how the Civil Rights Act 
and Voting Rights Act changed some things but not others; and the new fight over trying to re-verse the gains made 50 years ago. The event is free and open to the public. 
¿Qué Pasa? – Objectifying 
Stereotypes in the Latinx CommunityJoin La Casita for our first Cafe Cultural of the Spring semes-ter Tuesday at noon. It’s a new year, and what better way to honor the productivity we will accomplish than by exploring one of our favorite beverages: 
coffee! Come learn more about 
the varieties of the drink and enjoy free samples yourself.
Screening of Girl Rising
From Academy Award-nominated director Richard E. Robbins, Girl Rising journeys around the globe to witness the 
strength of the human spirit 
and the power of education to change the world. Viewers get to know nine unforgettable girls living in the developing world: ordinary girls who confront tre-mendous challenges and over-come nearly impossible odds to pursue their dreams. Prize-
winning authors put the girls’ 
remarkable stories into words, and renowned actors give them voice. A discussion will fol-Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: 
Early Roots of Rock and RollHear history come to life Feb. 26 with a multimedia presenta-tion by the chairman of the Yale University Music Department entitled “Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: Early Roots of Rock and Roll.” This lecture, running from 6 to 8 p.m. at the 
Matheson Museum, examines 
how the hokum blues of the late 1920s were the basis for musical sensations of the 1950s. Admission is free.
Be a Game Changer Video 
ContestSTRIVE at GatorWell, The 
Women’s Student Association 
and Student Government’s Health Affairs Cabinet are ex-cited to unveil our “Be a Game Changer” video contest. Help educate UF on how to inter-vene to end sexual violence. What better way to teach than by doing? So show us your best 
bystander scenarios in public 
service announcement video format and you could win up to $550 in UF Bookstore gift cards. Deadline for submission is March 1. For official rules and eligibility, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith      
   
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
 BUSINESSES ARE WORKING 
WITH GAINESVILLE COMPOST.
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
A career revolving around com-
posting and sustainability came 
naturally for Chris Cano.
Cano, a UF alumnus and the 
founder of Gainesville Compost, re-
alized his love for composting and 
sustainability after making a home garden with roommates, using scraps from his kitchen to create the base for his soil.
According to a study published 
Thursday by environmental groups As You Sow and the Natural Re-
sources Defense Council, most ma-
jor food corporations are not as com-mitted to a sustainable lifestyle.
“For me, it was really kind of a 
ﬁ  rst-hand realization that what was thrown away can actually become something of a resource for my own 
agriculture,” Cano, 27, said.
According to the study, titled 
“Waste and Opportunity 2015,” 
packaging policies at large brands 
are using unnecessary amounts of packaging, leading to increased 
waste and potential ocean pollution.
Companies in the fast food sector 
were judged on four categories of 
packaging sustainability: recyclabil-
ity and materials use, source reduc-tion, recycled content and boosting recycled material.
Of the 16 businesses surveyed, 
only two — McDonald’s and Star-bucks — ranked in the “better prac-tices” category, the second-highest level below “best practices.” 
Liz Storn, a program coordinator 
at Sustainable UF, wrote in an email that even though the main goal is to create less waste, recycling and com-posting are two of the better dispos-al alternatives.
“Composting will produce a 
beneﬁ  cial product in the long run … and recycling often allows new products to be made using fewer re-sources,” she said.
Cano and Gainesville Compost 
are working with more than 20 dif-ferent local restaurants and busi-nesses to limit the amount of waste that ﬁ  nds its way into landﬁ  lls.
“The more we get partners on 
board with the containers outside — either the restaurants or homes — the more people start noticing this kind of movement toward compost-ing,” Cano said.
Sweetwater Organic Coffee, lo-
cated at 1331 S. Main St., is working with Gainesville Compost to reduce packaging waste at the local level.
Cano plans to expand Gainesville 
Compost to assist with on-site com-posting, giving locals the opportu-nity to compost in their own homes.
“Seeing (composting) with your 
own eyes is very powerful,” Cano 
said. “That’s why we’re trying to 
create new ways to help people do that themselves.”
Local organizations work to reduce waste of GNV businessessouthern courtrooms.
“But I think more than that in some respects, it’s 
the voice of Scout,” she said. “It’s her innocent per-
spective on what adults are doing that allows, or al-lowed, for criticism that couldn’t do it in other ways.”
Bailey Ruark, a UF English and zoology junior, 
said the popularity of “To Kill a Mockingbird” in schools has cemented it in American culture.
“It’s one of those things that kind of becomes the 
foundation: the thing that you’re taught is good and then everything else is either good in comparison or pales in comparison to it,” Ruark, 20, said.
While Smith said she will probably read the book, 
she worries how willing Lee is to publish the sequel.
After Lee, 88, had a stroke in 2007, she was moved 
to an assisted care facility. Lee’s sister, Alice, worked as her lawyer.In 2013, Lee sued her literary agent, Samuel 
Pinkus, for taking advantage of her health and trick-ing her into signing a contract that would pass her copyright for “To Kill a Mockingbird” to him. The case was settled out of court.
Alice Lee passed away in November 2014, and the 
announcement of a new book is suspicious to some.
“She always said she only had one book in her; 
she only had one story and that was Atticus’ story,” Smith said.
Smith said this could affect sales and how people 
react to the sequel.
“If this book has the same grace and substance of 
the ﬁ  rst book, then yeah, of course I’m excited,” she said. “But I also think that elder abuse is a big prob-lem, and this is just a very high proﬁ  le case of that 
problem.”
“She gave us a gift, and this is the way we treat 
her? It’s just not right,” she added.dents.
“To place anyone associated 
with a political party violates the 
integrity and the neutrality of the elections,” she said.
Sen. Leah Miller, allocations 
chairwoman, assured senators that because of Sherman’s expe-
rience as a law student and time 
away from the Senate, he was a qualiﬁ  ed candidate.
“If he was not involved in the 
previous semester then he quali-ﬁ  es,” she said. “He was chosen with a group that is trusted.”
Sen. Anthony Sorrentino, chairman of the rules and and eth-ics committee, weighed in as well.
“I can promise everybody in 
these chambers that there’s not a person who cares more about the accuracy of the codes,” said Sor-
rentino. “There’s no bigger stick-
ler for the rules than Austin Sher-man.”
After several rounds of pro 
and con, a divided Senate voted. 
Sherman needed two-thirds 
of votes to be approved. He was three votes short from failing with 55 senators approving and 24 dis-
senting.
“People change,” Sherman 
told Senate. “I promise you I will 
follow the codes.”4, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015
Sherman approved by 
barely two-thirds of vote
SENATE , from page 1Cresonia Hsieh / Alligator
Suit Up
(From left) Second-year UF Hough Graduate School of Business students Gaurav Chordiya, 24; Srinivas 
Pochincharla, 24; Sagar Hs, 25; and Vidhya Padmanabhan, 27, make their way to class Tuesday after visiting the Stephen C. O’Connell Center where the Spring 2015 Career Showcase was held. 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
LONDON — Britain moved 
Tuesday toward allowing sci-
entists to create humans from the DNA of three people.
The technology aims to lib-
erate future generations from inherited diseases, but critics say it crosses a fundamental scientiﬁ  c boundary and could lead to “designer babies.”
The U.K.’s House of Com-
mons voted 382-178 in favor of legislation to license these experiments. If approved in the 
House of Lords, Britain would 
become the world’s ﬁ  rst nation to allow genetic modiﬁ  cations in human embryos. 
While this legislation was 
drafted speciﬁ  cally to grant permission only for certain speciﬁ  ed techniques, critics fear it will encourage scientists to push for other experiments.
The technology alters a hu-
man egg or embryo before transferring it into a mother with defects in her mitochon-
dria. These genetic defects can 
result in diseases including 
muscular dystrophy and heart, 
kidney and liver failure.
Scientists would remove 
the nucleus DNA from the egg of the prospective mother and insert it into a donor egg from which the nucleus DNA has been removed. The resulting embryo would have the nu-
cleus DNA from its biological 
parents but the mitochondrial DNA from the donor.
Scientists say more than 99 
percent of the DNA in the re-sulting child would come from its parents.UK to allow genetically 
modiﬁ  ed embryos
HARPER , from page 1Book buzz also stirred controversyWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
 THE CAMPAIGN IS CALLED “IMAGINE... 
A PLACE CALLED HOME!”
EMILEE BELL
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s campus is about to feel more like home.
Today at noon, the UF Bateman team will 
launch its monthlong “Imagine…a place called Home!” campaign for Home Matters, a company dedicated to raising awareness for home afford-
ability.
The Bateman Case Study Competition is a na-
tional competition sponsored by the Public Rela-
tions Student Society of America, where teams from each participating college are tasked with creating a campaign for that year’s chosen client.
The Bateman team helped set up a home, made 
out of a shipping container, on the North Lawn late Tuesday night, said Valeria Yulee, a 22-year-old UF 
public relations senior and Bateman team member.
People are invited to tour the tiny home on cam-
pus, learn about home affordability and participate 
in games and giveaways in the Imagination Station set up next to the home. The home will be open every weekday until Feb. 11 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.The tiny home will be available to view via live-
stream at homeimagined.com.
The campaign is designed to teach people 
the importance of quality, affordable homes in Gainesville. The Bateman team is challenging peo-ple to re-imagine approaches to the issue, Yulee said.
“Especially as millennials, I don’t think a lot of 
us are thinking about home affordability and how we’re going to ﬁ  nd and maintain a stable, afford-able home when we graduate,” Yulee said. “It’s 
something that I think would be beneﬁ  cial to start 
thinking about now.”
There will be events throughout February to 
teach students about home affordability, said An-drea Cepeda, a 22-year-old UF public relations stu-dent and member of the Bateman team.
Financial workshops will also be held to edu-
cate students on the importance of smart ﬁ  nancing, understanding credit scores and the requirements 
for renting or buying a home after college. They 
will be led by Taylor Spangler, Florida Master Money Mentor state coordinator.
“Our goal is actually also to raise awareness,” 
Cepeda said, “but if they do want to get involved, they’re invited to come to our workshops and they’re invited to come to our panels.”Bateman team launches tiny 
home campaign for affordability
MARSHA JOSEPH
Alligator Contributing Writer
There was no shortage of evi-
dence in Dr. Nancy Hardt’s Power-
Point slides, showing communities must invest in early childhood care and education to avoid paying more in the future.
About 115 students, staff, faculty 
and community members gathered at 6 p.m. Tuesday in the Pugh Hall 
Ocora for “The Price of Poverty’s 
Impact on Women and Children” 
presentation, hosted by the Bob Gra-
ham Center for Public Service.
Hardt, a UF College of Medicine 
professor of pathology and obstet-rics and gynecology, was the key-
note speaker. She invests her time 
in the community working as the di-
rector of the Health Disparities and Service Learning Programs and as 
the associate director of the Family Data Center.
Gainesville is one of the top U.S. 
cities with high income disparities, she said in her presentation, and it’s 
not due to a lack of resources.
“We’re doing something differ-
ent here, and it’s not a good some-
thing,” Hardt said.
Hardt said she believes there is 
a lack of investment in early child-hood care and education, and that’s where the work should start.
Abby Doupnik, a 20-year-old UF 
journalism junior, said Hardt’s re-
search opened her eyes to depths of 
the poverty problem.
“I knew that there were issues,” 
Doupnik said, “but the data from 
her research helped to show how 
much of an issue that there is.”Professor talks about 
poverty’s effect on health Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Alligator available 
for feedback during 
election season
Slating for seats in Student Government ended at 5 p.m. 
Tuesday. Participation was high this semester: 617 stu-dents slated for Swamp Party, while 175 slated for the 
most recent incarnation of its opposition, Access Party. All in all, it was a civil affair — enthusiasm for the political process met the machinery of SG bureaucracy, signing up students to run for seats and affect the future of this university.
Slating’s end, though, means this period of calm and civility 
is over. The game is on: If you’re running, it’s time to do what-ever you can to sharpen yourself up because things are set to get nasty. Not Toronto-after-the-Stanley-cup nasty, but every 
bit as backhandedly passive-aggressive as SG elections can get.
Starting tomorrow — or in all likelihood, today — aggres-
sive campaigning will commence. Certainly engulﬁ  ng every 
corner of campus, it’ll probably rage online, too — SG cam-paigning knows no boundaries. Closer to election day, there’ll be unnaturally eager people stationed every 50 feet. Every-where you walk, each of their grinning faces curling up to ask, “Are you voting?” You’ll feel as if you’re trapped in nightmare from a bad coming-of-age comedy.
And that’s just speaking from experiences from the past 
year and a half, a time in SG history when elections were a rubber stamp on single-party rule. Swamp could’ve won 48 of 50 Senate seats last Fall with no campaigning whatsoever. Now faced with the revival of signiﬁ  cant opposition, Swamp Party will have to put forth increased effort. Access Party, we 
presume, will do its best to ﬁ  ght back.
If you’re an innocent civilian, we wish you the best in any 
efforts to stay out of it. Perhaps try hiding behind a copy of the 
Alligator while you read our outstanding election coverage.
Seriously, aside from major breaking news stories, SG elec-
tions are the biggest thing that happens around here. For many at UF, these biannual political showdowns are more exciting than the Super Bowl. It’s when we at the Alligator stay up extra late and work extra hard to deliver you the ﬁ  nest SG journal-
ism out there.
Since we can already hear some of you scofﬁ  ng, let us take 
a moment to acknowledge something. We’ve been known to 
take a less-than-friendly stance toward SG. But that’s always taken place here, in Opinions, where we — just like every other newspaper on the planet — let out our feelings so we can focus on staying objective in our coverage. Which is the way it should be. Our feelings will always appear on pages six and seven. We strive for everything else to be fact-based and unbiased.
If, for any reason, you have issues with our coverage, want 
to give us story ideas or just need to vent, let us know. We can’t ﬁ  x problems we aren’t aware of, and we can’t publish stories we know nothing about. Our SG beat reporter is Ariana Figueroa, and our editor-in-chief is Kathryn Varn. They can be contacted at aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org and editor@alligator.org, 
respectively. 
We hold ourselves to a high standard, and we hope you’ll 
do the same.
23 TOTAL VOTES17% YES
83% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgTuesday’s question: Are you going to 
career showcase?Today’s question: Are you looking forward to Harper 
Lee’s new book?Don’t count on those dreamcatchers
I ate some salad, double-checked my alarm — set for 
every three hours — closed my eyes and tried to worry about upcoming exams. I wasn’t asking for 
a next-day headache; I wanted to prove dream catchers couldn’t stop bad dreams.
According to “Dreams and Transitions,” a Ph.D. dis-
sertation by Mohkamsing-den Boer and Elizabeth Piet-ernella, “Some of the dreams that are dreamt repeatedly may be understood as urgent ‘calls’ from the world be-yond.” 
Sometimes, these dreams are scary. To native tribes 
of the world, a dreamcatcher — usually a wooden circle with strings to catch bad dreams — was used as a “spir-itual safety blanket,” Philip Jenkins wrote in his book 
“Dream Catchers: How Mainstream America Discov-
ered Native Spirituality.”
To test their myth, I ﬁ  rst needed to improve the odds 
of having a nightmare. Old-timer psychologist Sigmund Freud argued that dreams addressed subconscious de-sires. Another theory suggests dreams bring up emo-tions from earlier that day.
In either case, I knew wanting to pass a math test I 
hadn’t started studying for would give me the willies. 
Apparently, eating food like lettuce with spicy ginger 
dressing might also cause some nightmares. 
Until I came to UF, I slept so much I forgot my 
dreams. Scientists are still searching for why some people are better than others at remembering them. Ac-cording to a study by a French university, people who remember dreams have more brain activity.  
Since there weren’t any solid rules, I ﬁ  gured if I inter-
rupted sleep every three hours, I’d have a better chance 
of remembering.
While I attempted to sleep, messengers in my brain 
told unneeded machinery to shut down. They kept most 
parts purring, partially so I didn’t die young and par-tially so software could get upgraded.
A persistent bell exploded in my eardrums at 4 a.m. I 
couldn’t remember any dreams, so I clicked my phone’s ignore icon and rolled over to my right side.Dreams begin with a Who-
villian-shaped brain secretary. My secretary was busy sipping margaritas on the brain’s long stem.
When it got around to it, the 
secretary submitted a memo to a penguin-shaped mail service, which delivered an idea to the mushy outer layer of my brain. 
The ﬁ  rst nightmare was fun.My comrades and I had been kept prisoner aboard a 
human-looking alien ship for months.
Eventually, the ship crash-landed in a tropical rain-
forest, and I discovered a magic sword.
I started shaking. As 30 aliens circled around me on 
the grass, I realized I couldn’t beat them all.
My second alarm went off at 7 a.m. I almost fell off 
my bed reaching in the dark for a notebook and pencil.
Grogginess after awakening from sleep is normal be-
cause the body switches unused muscles back on. 
My dulled senses couldn’t tell the dream world apart 
from reality.
Exhausted, I gratefully closed my eyes. I worried 
about sleeping through my next alarm, but there was a chance my dream catcher needed to warm up.
In the second bad dream, somebody sued me for 
something I didn’t do. In my notebook, I wrote “paper.”
Luckily, my alarm went off again at 10 a.m. and the 
trial was over.
Perhaps the dreamcatcher works but was too full of 
bad dreams to catch any more. 
Perhaps people think it works because of a placebo 
effect — like in drug studies when participants are giv-en fake pills and still get better.
Until somebody repeats my experiment on a large 
scale, though, students shouldn’t bet their sanity on a dreamcatcher.
Andrew Silver is a UF mathematics junior. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Andrew Silver
opinions@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
As issues concerning feminism become in-
creasingly popular and hotly debated, a faction of its opponents attempt to match 
that growth and diminish feminism’s lasting ef-fect. The men’s rights movement — or meninists, as they so cutely call themselves — represents the loudest or-
ganized voices against feminism, bemoaning a neglect of men 
they believe remains unaddressed. At best, this movement is 
a redundant protest of issues that feminism already seeks 
to address. At worst, meninists are making a misogynistic mockery of true activism and misguidedly placing blame. 
Mother Jones recently published a thorough examination 
of the men’s rights movement from the perspective of its credited creator, Warren Farrell. Farrell manages to stand out from his angry and bitter brethren with a calm rationale that is, admittedly, appealing. He responded to the Mother Jones’ 
piece with a brief list of concerns that the article “completely 
ignored,” according to Farrell. He cites in his list of grievances the need for a “Men’s Studies” department at universities. 
I couldn’t help my bewilderment as I stared at that partic-
ular bullet point. How could he not realize the essence of hu-
man history was “Men’s Studies”? Upon further examination 
of these claims, I found that some were legitimate concerns — concerns that feminism has been seeking to ﬁ  x all along. Is-sues such as unreported sexual assault against men, domestic 
violence against men and the societal expectation of the male 
breadwinner are all perfectly valid complaints. 
What men’s rights activists fail to realize is these woes are 
not the fault of feminism but of the patriarchal society that feminism consistently seeks to dismantle. I ﬁ  nd it endlessly 
amusing that men can take an issue such as a male-only draft 
law and interpret it as men’s lives being disposable, when 
in actuality, laws that exclude women are — shocker! — not 
about men but about fundamental ﬂ  aws women are believed 
to possess, like weakness and fragility. Meninists have the 
unique ability to twist issues of female marginalization into 
some alleged injustice against men. 
This pseudo-movement is teeming with contradiction and 
inconsistency. In claiming to protest gender discrimination against men — whose “discrimination” cannot hold a candle to the historical injustices women have faced — they tend to-ward aggressive and hateful language regarding women on 
forums, perpetuating that which they claim to protest. 
Meninists seek to uplift and improve the lives of men at 
the expense of the feminist equality that attempts to do the 
same for women. Here lies the most problematic aspect of men’s rights ideology: They cannot conceive true equality, only an existing power dynamic that places one gender in charge of the other. In 
the eyes of Farrell and his supporters, feminism 
is not about equality, but rather about power. 
Female progress is a direct threat to male superiority, and as 
more women achieve success and status, they come closer to 
dominating spheres that men have controlled for millennia. 
And meninists will be damned before women have that kind 
of inﬂ  uence. 
Despite this fear of female power, these men are unhappy 
with masculine gender roles and societal expectations that force them to be breadwinners, soldiers and absent fathers. They neglect to mention that these issues fall under the femi-nist umbrella of “toxic masculinity.” 
To meninists, societal expectations are separate from and 
caused by feminism, when in reality they are directly linked. Constricting male gender roles which pressure men to act “like a man” are a direct result of the devaluation of feminin-ity. If it were not so abhorrent to be “like a woman,” then men would be free from the expectations that force them to con-
stantly prove their masculinity through wealth, war, violence 
and stoicism. 
The men’s rights movement wholly appears as an imper-
manent fad and a desperate cry for attention as women’s is-
sues are addressed even passingly; a plea for relevancy. For 
once in our history, everything is not centered on the arche-
typal straight white man, and issues of diversity and discrim-
ination are progressively discussed. 
Meninism is a juvenile and ignorant desire for oppres-
sion, and a fabrication of issues to serve as its justiﬁ  cation. 
Threatened by conversations of female empowerment, me-
ninists interject and interrupt with tired slogans of “not all 
men,” and “men suffer too,” not realizing how petulant and 
entitled they appear. When marginalized groups create con-
versations or spaces of sanctuary, meninists feel obligated to 
include themselves in an attempt to diminish the suffering of women or prove their suffering is somehow more worthy of 
discussion. 
This tendency to assert themselves as the most important 
part of a gender dialogue only further invalidates the legiti-
macy of men’s rights activists. True to form, they do not con-
tribute to progress but wholly derail enlightened conversa-
tions about gender equality. 
Amy Coker is a UF English junior. Her column appears on 
Wednesdays.Meninism: a movement of misogyny and 
contradiction that sets back women’s rightsColumn
Amy Coker
opinions@alligator.orgDo you know what your Student Govern-
ment senators accomplished this past se-mester? Do you know their names or their 
goals? No? Me either. There is one thing I’m sure we all know: They’re most likely members of the 
Swamp Party.
It’s frustrating when 
the only thing you know 
about the people repre-senting you is their party afﬁ  liation. Representa-tives are responsible for being visible and com-municative, and ours 
have not been up to par.
First, let’s look at 
Swamp’s Facebook page. 
Before last week, their most recent post was Oct. 5, 2014. The party that won 49 out of 50 Senate seats in the Fall and the entire ballot in Spring 2014 went 114 days without giving us a single update from the page. 
It wasn’t just a single mishap, however. Scroll 
down further or check their Twitter and You-Tube accounts, and you’ll notice the same pattern: Swamp is only around during election time. 
Fine. Maybe they prefer to update us in between 
elections through the SG label. Take a look at the “News” section on the Student Government web-site: Its most recent update was about their Tap-Shield app — more than a year ago.
Have you heard about their UFStudentGov You-
Tube channel? The Fall Senate agenda is the only video that has been uploaded on that account in the last two years, and it has a total of six subscribers. 
Furthermore, if you wanted to take it upon your-
self and ﬁ  nd out who your SG senators are, you 
could go to the SG website. Instead of pictures and 
biographies of our senators, we are left with a list of names and emails. The way SG presents our sena-tors makes them distant, shady and protected from criticism. How can you hold your representatives accountable if you don’t know who they are?
Apparently our SG isn’t very tech-savvy, but 
they make up for it with face-to-face interaction, right? Not really. Besides seeing a Swamp tank ev-ery now and then, the senators have not been pres-ent in our community. The closest “encounter” I’ve had with my SG representatives since Fall elections 
was when I sat at the solar-powered tables behind 
the Hub, approved by Senate last year. I invite you to try them out sometime. They might look like SG billboards, but, unlike SG, they’re always available.
Anyway, where are the senator-constituent 
meetings or the personal relationships? SG has made somewhat of an effort with their “Lunch on the Lawn” series where you can get free Chick-ﬁ  l-A with some SG representatives. However, the 
January lunch was announced on the SG Facebook 
page about 48 hours prior to the event. If they really wanted to hear every student’s voice, they wouldn’t do it through impromptu lunches.  
It’s clear the way members of Swamp have man-
aged SG has broadened the gap between SG and the student body. It would be understandable if they were working to improve, but they haven’t made much progress. We need representatives who will 
engage their communities the entire semester, not 
just the two weeks they spend campaigning on Tur-lington Plaza. In the coming weeks, let’s familiarize ourselves with our potential representatives and ask them to commit to being concerned, communi-cative and available throughout the entire semester.
Hopefully, the Access Party will prove its phi-
losophy of transparency and Swamp will be pres-sured to do the same. Competition often brings out 
the best in people, so maybe Spring elections will 
produce the best SG the Gator Nation has ever had.
Christopher Wilde is a UF biochemistry freshman. 
His column appears on Wednesdays.SG has room 
for improvementColumn
Christopher 
Wilde
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015
Left: Lizzie Wetzel, a 21-year-old UF zoology senior, poses for a photo while 
wearing a shark suit Tuesday afternoon on Turlington Plaza. Wetzel was 
helping a friend complete a portrait photography assignment. “I decided to spice it up with the shark suit because it shows off my personality,” Wetzel said.Below: Allison Sumilang, a 21-year-old UF accounting senior, and Thomas Sarek, a 22-year-old French exchange student, both members of Vox: Voic-es for Planned Parenthood, hand out free condoms Tuesday on Turlington Plaza. A variety of condoms were available, as well as personal lubricants. 
TURLINGTON GETS WEIRD
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
CAMPUS
 AN EXHIBITION RUNNING 
THROUGH FEB. 27 WAS DEDICATED TO THE GALLERY’S FOUNDER.
MICHELLE NEELEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
The University Gallery announced 
its milestone birthday with a 14-by-14-
foot banner along the side of the build-
ing.
The gallery is turning 50 this year 
and dedicated its anniversary exhibi-
tion — open through Feb. 27 — to Roy 
Craven, the gallery’s founding and lon-
gest standing director of 25 years.
Richard Heipp, the interim direc-
tor and a professor in the UF School of Art + Art History, said the banner was 
necessary because most students aren’t 
aware of the University Gallery, located on campus on Southwest 13th Street. 
“The students in the community 
don’t know about it and don’t know 
what it does or what a rich resource it 
is,” Heipp said.
The exhibition will feature art relo-
cated from the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art, originally displayed in the gal-
lery when Craven was director. 
Heipp said he hopes the anniversary 
will help get the word out for the gal-
lery.
Katy Estes-Smargiassi, graduate as-
sistant for the University Gallery and a 24-year-old UF second-year museum studies graduate student, said she feels that some visitors stumble upon it by 
chance.
“A lot of people come in not really 
realizing what we are,” Estes-Smargi-
assi said, “and they get surprised when 
they walk in and they look around.”University Gallery celebrates 50th birthday, wants new visitors
Alligator File Photo
Three performance artists pose in front of portraits printed on leather on display at Naomi 
Fisher’s reception for “Lay of the Land” at the University Gallery in Oct. 2013.
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College said goodbye to 
Janet Foster on Tuesday, who had 
worked for the college for 14 years.
About 20 Santa Fe faculty members, 
professors and friends gathered in a small classroom to bid their farewells. A white iced cake with the words “Ja-net, we will miss you,” and cards laid 
on a table in the middle of the room. 
Soft music played in the background as people ate, drank sodas and chatted. 
Foster said she wished she could 
keep working at Santa Fe, but for health reasons, she had to retire. She said she also wanted to be able to support her 
parents, who are in their early 90s. Math department chairwoman 
Kathleen Arnold said Foster was very 
helpful when she began working as chairwoman.  
“(Foster) always goes out of the way 
to help the people around her — she’s 
very kind hearted,” Arnold said.
Foster started working as the ad-
ministrative assistant to the mathemat-
ics department in 2005. Prior to that, she served under the former associate vice president for liberal arts and sci-ences.
Foster said her love for the field 
came from knowing the importance of 
math.
“A lot of people think math is not 
going to be any good to them some 
day,” Foster said. But for people like her, she said, math is a necessary tool in everyday life.
Foster said what she enjoyed the 
most during her time working at Santa Fe was helping students and getting in-
volved with their activities on campus.Santa Fe says goodbye to 
professor after 14 years
TYLER MCLENNAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Forget long lines — coffee can soon be de-
livered to your door.
Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz said in 
an earnings call that the coffee chain will start 
delivering its food and drinks toward the end of the year.
Schultz aims to improve “customer loy-
alty and engagement by extending express 
order and pay to include food and beverage 
delivery, yes, food and beverage delivery in select markets,” he said, according to a tran-script of the call.
Starbucks has not announced the first cit-
ies for the delivery service, but if it reaches Gainesville, Maude’s Classic Café employee Chelsea Collison does not see it as a threat.
Collison, a 26-year-old UF alumna, has 
worked as a barista for two years.“I don’t think a delivery service would 
really affect our business so much,” Collison said. “We have a lot of people who have met here and this becomes their meeting place. I think human interaction is pretty important, not just money in exchange for goods.”
Gainesville is no stranger to coffee deliv-
ery. Two former UF students, Marcus Cal-pakis, 21, an economics and information sys-
tems double major, and Spencer Muratides, 
23, a real estate graduate student, founded GoJoe in 2014. Although no longer in busi-ness, GoJoe was a coffee delivery service.
GoJoe’s concept was very similar to the 
Starbucks delivery model — students placed orders via a mobile app, provided their credit card information and their location appeared with a pin, Calpakis said.
“I think it will be a success for them, it’s 
a cult product so people who already order Starbucks will use the delivery too,” he said.Starbucks to incorporate 
delivery option by year’s end
“A lot of people think math is 
not going to be any good to them 
some day.”
Janet Foster
Santa Fe professorWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY, 4, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, 
Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer 
included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony$575 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs$685 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-22BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    
2-25-15-20-2
TIRED OF ROOMMATES?
Move-in ready 1bed/1bath in Windsor Park.  $700/mo.  Contact Debra Oberlin, REALTOR 
352-514-6715 EXIT Realty Producers    
2-10-15-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales andScooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $99995 Toyota Camry $125088 Honda Civic $125095 Pontiac Bonneville $1300352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $175092 Nissan Maxima $99995 Pontiac Bonneville $130092 Ford Crown Vic $1999352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $95000 Dodge Intrepid $130092 Toyota Camry $175091 Chevy Blazer $699352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 2-6-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 11 
12, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY, 4, 2015
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal     2-5-15-14
Uf Beef Unit Needs P/T Farm Help.  
UF/SFe student, or High School sr.  Tractor/
cattle exp. preferred.  Weekends/holidays 
required.  Housing available.  352-538-1401    
2-4-5-14
Operation Catnip has an opening for a full-
time Volunteer Coordinator!Job duties include: recruitment, training, and  supervision, of volunteer workforce. Must be highly organized, comfortable managing un-paid staff and able to work and communicate with diverse stakeholders. Volunteers come from all walks - the local community includes the college of veterinary medicine, university student population of 50k and a county pop-ulation of 250k. Anticipated salary of $26k. Please go to the following link to learn more and to apply for this position:http://sheltermedicine.vetmed.ufl.edu/about-us/employment/position-opening-volunteer-coordinator/     2-6-5-14
Immediate opening for a PT Medical Front Office person. Multi-tasking and accuracy is a MUST! Please email your resume to trc0102@yahoo.com    2-6-15-5-14
Looking for help on the weekends to work with children at an indoor play center for children and families. We want to add to our ener-getic, friendly, trustworthy and hard -working team. Must be able to commit to 2 weekends a month. Please call 352-278-7128    2-6-15-3-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     2-27-14-125-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Attention Viagra Users!VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305     1-30-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCHOHOL? Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-972-6607    1-30-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Designated drivers are the greatestFinders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Gymnasts honored by SEC
Senior Kytra Hunter and freshman Kennedy Baker were respectively 
named the Southeastern Conference Gymnast of the Week and Freshman of the Week on Tuesday for their performances against Georgia.Men’s golf finishes first Spring tournament
The Florida men’s golf team came in second place at the Sea Best Invitational after shooting 40-over-par throughout the two-day tournament.Jim McElwain is looking to finish strong on National Signing Day. For a look at UF’s top targets, see Page 15.GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311 
Facing a Vanderbilt team that 
had lost seven straight Southeast-ern Conference games, Florida had an opportunity to capitalize on the Commodores’ woes and earn its third straight victory.
But nothing went as planned 
for the Gators, as UF fell to Vanderbilt 67-61 on Tuesday night in Nashville, Tennessee.
Vanderbilt  
jumped out to a 15-0 lead, with 
UF (12-10, 5-4 SEC) missing its first nine shots before a pair of Alex Murphy layups sparked 
a 10-0 Florida run. The Gators went into the break down just 31-23 despite shooting 32 percent from the field and attempting four free throws compared to 18 from Vanderbilt (12-10, 2-7 SEC). 
Dorian Finney-Smith, who 
was a focal point in Florida’s pre-vious two SEC victories, fouled out with 8:52 to play in the sec-ond half. The redshirt junior tal-lied a paltry four points and four rebounds while shooting just 2-of-6 from the field.
The loss didn’t come at the 
hands of hot shooting by the Commodores, but rather at the free throw line.
Vanderbilt attempted a stag-
gering 42 free throws, converting 29 of those attempts. Florida had just 16 attempts from the line, a differential that made it surpris-ing that the Gators kept the game close.
Florida cut the Vanderbilt 
lead to five points 13 times and only got closer than that one time when an Eli Carter jumper cut the lead to 54-51.
But the Commodores hit shots 
when they needed to most, and Florida wasn’t able to run in tran-sition as the Gators have done so well in spurts when the offense is free-flowing and the shots are falling.
Michael Frazier II followed up 
his late-game heroics against Ar-kansas on Saturday with a strong performance on the offensive and defensive side of the ball.After struggling from long-
range in the Gators recent SEC contests, Frazier went 4-of-6 from behind the arc. 
The junior sharpshooter tal-
lied 21 points for the Gators, and continued his recent success on the defensive side of the ball by recording a career-high six steals and five rebounds while playing the most minutes (34) of all UF players.
Along with Finney-Smith, Alex 
Murphy also fouled out for the 
Gators, and Chris Walker failed 
to impact the game in any aspect aside from committing three fouls in a meager nine minutes that saw 
the struggling sophomore fail to 
command a presence in the paint.
Florida has just four days to 
regroup before the Gators take on 
No. 1 Kentucky at 9 p.m. in the 
O’Connell Center. 
Florida fouls out, falls to struggling Vanderbilt on the road
IAN COHEN
Alligator Staff Writer @icohenb
Last year, Peter Alonso was a bright spot 
for Florida.
He started 58 games — 30 as the designat-
ed hitter and the rest at first and third base.
This year, Florida will need more from 
him.
“I got big shoes to fill,” Alonso said. “…I 
gotta step up and be the RBI guy. Just put 
runs on the board.”
As part of an effort to incorporate more 
of his strongest hitters in the lineup, coach Kevin O’Sullivan is testing Alonso out in right field. 
And after last year’s numbers, the Gators 
could use him in the order on a consistent basis.In 2014, UF ranked 10th in the Southeast-
ern Conference in both slugging percentage (.350) and on base percentage (.351), and 
11th in batting average (.267).
In limited action last 
season, Alonso finished 
the year batting .264 with 32 RBIs and four home 
runs.
But for Alonso, the 
transition into the outfield is still a work in progress.
“You know, Pete isn’t 
the most quick-with-his-
feet kind of guy,” sophomore outfielder Buddy Reed said.
So far, O’Sullivan is satisfied with Alon-
so’s progress. If the sophomore is able to so-lidify his spot in the outfield, the coach said, the Gators can piece together a more com-plete batting order.
“I know people don’t think that it will 
work, but it’s OK I mean, he does a good 
enough job out there, “ O’Sullivan said. “…. 
If we could work it out to where we get our best hitters in the lineup, that’s a pretty good one through nine. I see us being a threat to potentially score every inning.”
Alonso has been learning the position from Reed, who was also his freshman year roommate. Reed ended last season with a .984 fielding percentage, the second highest 
percentage among freshmen.
“It’s all about that first initial step,” Alon-
so said of what he’s learned from Reed. “If 
you take a bad initial first step you could ei-ther have a really, really good read and you can make an amazing play, or if you make a bad first step then you just look stupid.”
Like last year, Alonso’s biggest contribu-
tion this season will likely come at the plate. 
But teammates see him improving into a sol-
id outfielder on the defensive side.
“He gets the balls. It may not be as quick 
as some other outfielders, but he does the job and that’s the good part about him,” Reed said. “He gets it done.”Alonso moving to outfield, O’Sullivan satisfied with his progressAndres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Michael Frazier II recorded a game-high 21 points in Florida’s 67-61 loss to Vanderbilt on Tuesday. Frazier was 
one of the lone bright spots for the Gators as they struggled on almost all cylinders against the Commodores.
Michael Frazier’s 
Statline
21 points
6-of-10 
shooting from the field
4-of-6 
shooting from three-point 
range
5-of-5 
from the free-throw line
Career-high six stealsDonovan
The Commodores were 1-7 in SEC play
Alonso
“If you take a bad initial first step 
you could either have a really, really 
good read and you can make an 
amazing play”
Peter Alonso
UF baseball player14, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015
PATRICK PINAK
Alligator Writer @pinakk12
Lauren Haeger has been a sta-
ple in the UF softball lineup and 
pitching rotation since she was a freshman. 
Now, as a senior coming off a 
national championship season, she 
isn’t riding off into the sunset just yet – she’s working harder than 
ever.
“This Fall, I’ve felt really good,” 
Haeger said. “I spent a lot more 
time in the cages I think than I ever 
have. Coach (Tim) Walton and I 
have had a lot of conversations about it and I’ve been working a lot harder in my bullpens to try to make every single one of them count.”
As a pitcher, Haeger has been 
successful during her three years 
at UF, posting a 41-10 career record 
with a 2.01 ERA. 
She also finished second in the 
Southeastern Conference last year 
holding opponents to a .190 bat-
ting average.
This year, Haeger said she has 
worked on her endurance in the circle and is focusing on throwing 
seven innings well as opposed to 
throwing a couple innings at full throttle. Haeger will have to step up to 
help make up for the loss of Han-
nah Rogers, who graduated last 
year.“We’re gonna miss Hannah, I 
miss Hannah as a person, as my 
friend, I miss having her around, 
we all do,” she said. “But I took a lot from Hannah and I kind of 
have now become to the mental-
ity where I’m gonna have to throw more than two innings a game like after Hannah.”
At the plate, Haeger has been 
a consistent middle-of-the-lineup power threat during her three-year 
career – slugging 52 home runs 
while knocking in 189 RBIs. Her 20 home runs last year were sixth best in the country.
But last year is in the past and 
Haeger knows teams will be gun-ning for the Gators this year.
“Yeah we won with what we 
did last year but we have to work 
harder this year because everyone 
is, you know every time they play us they’re gonna try to make it this big thing,” Haeger said. “We’re just gonna go out there and do 
what we normally do.”
While Haeger is ready for the 
daily grind the season brings, she 
knows this is her last year, and 
she said she wants to remember to 
have fun.
“I’ve been playing this game for 
16 years now and for me it’s com-ing to an end and a new chapter of 
my life,” she said. “The season’s 
really, really long but it goes by so fast and so quickly and that’s what we try to tell the younger players.”
One of those younger players is 
freshman pitcher Aleshia Ocasio, who said Haeger and sophomore pitcher Delanie Gourley have helped prepare her for the season.
“Coming from high school to 
college, it’s a different game, it’s faster paced,” Ocasio said. “So it’s a little bit different and I’m just 
ready to get started.”Haeger working on pitching endurance entering senior year
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
With Florida looking to replace All-American Hannah Rogers — who finished her collegiate career 
last season — senior Lauren Haeger is expecting to play an active role as a pitcher this season.
She has a career 2.01 ERA, 41 winsFour-star outside linebacker, Jeffery Holland (6-foot-1, 225 
Pounds, Jacksonville, Florida, Trinity Christian Academy)
Jeffery Holland is an intriguing prospect. At Trinity Christian Academy, he played a 
number of positions including running back, wide receiver and he even saw time as a 
wildcat quarterback.
But Holland’s home at the collegiate level will be at outside linebacker.The first thing that jumps out for the 20th ranked outside linebacker is his athleti-
cism. Holland can effortlessly do a front flip, even though he won’t be asked to do so during a game in college. Holland is great off the edge and uses his speed to get into the backfield and possesses the body type to add weight, without losing his quick twitch.  
One of the bigger questions for Holland is his ability to drop back into coverage. Will 
he be able to matchup one-on-one against a tight end that is isolated on him, or a slot receiver?
Working in his favor is his speed and his length and as long as he adds weight, he 
should be good in coverage. Holland will be announcing his signing at Trinity Christian Academy and he will be choosing between Auburn, Florida and Ole Miss.
— LUIS TORRESFour-star quarterback Deondre Francois (6-foot, 191 pounds, 
Bradenton, Florida, IMG Academy)
Deondre Francois is one of the more curious cases for Florida fans as signing day 
has finally arrived. 
On Thursday, Francois tweeted he was decommitting from rival Florida State. Al-
ligatorSports was able to confirm with one of Francois’ assistant coaches that he had in fact decommitted. Then, after speaking to his head coach, former FSU quarterback Chris Wienke, it was confirmed that Francois was staying garnet and gold. 
No one will truly know until the fax comes in to either Tallahassee or Gainesville 
Wednesday afternoon. Francois is by all accounts the most talented of FSU’s quarter -
back class. Kai Locksley flipped to Texas Monday night, an anticipated move, leaving the Seminoles class with two committed QBs and a Francois flip would leave the Seminoles with early enrollee De’Andre Johnson as the lone quarterback in the 2015 class. 
Francois won’t wow with his speed or mobility but what immediately jumps off the 
screen is a solid arm as well as very impressive ball placement with this throw. 
— RICHARD JOHNSON
Four-star wide receiver Ryan Davis (5-foot-10, 161 pounds, St. 
Petersburg, Lakewood High)
Ryan Davis, the No. 8 wide receiver and the No. 64 overall prospect in the coun-
try, spent the majority of his time at St. Petersburg’s Lakewood High as the team’s quarterback.
But as he prepares to transition to the collegiate level, Davis is looking to transition 
to the wide receiver.
Davis possesses great body control — especially when running along the sidelines 
— and the ability to grab the ball at its highest point.
As a quarterback at Lakewood High, Davis showcased immense athleticism, uti-
lizing his speed and a quick sidestep to fake out defenders when he ran out of the pocket.
Davis’ top schools are Auburn and Florida.
— JORDAN MCPHERSONFour-star wide receiver Antonio Callaway (6-foot, 185 pounds, 
Miami, Booker T. Washington)
Antonio Callaway, the No. 36 wide receiver in the 2015 class, would provide Flori-
da a wide receiver with a quick first step.
On film, Callaway showcases great field vision and the capability to line up just 
about anywhere on the offensive side of the ball.
He knows how to break past defenders and utilizes a shifty cutback move to break 
free in one-on-one coverage.
Callaway also has potential to give Florida an extra man in punt return duties, 
which would help relieve the loss of special teams standout Andre Debose.
Callaway is deciding between Florida and Miami
— JORDAN MCPHERSONFive-star strongside defensive end, CeCe Jefferson (6-foot-2, 
245 Pounds, Glen St. Mary, Florida, Baker County)
CeCe Jefferson is an explosive defensive end prospect. He may not be Byron Cow -
art, but Jefferson isn’t far behind in terms of potential as he has his own five-star rank -
ing. The No. 2 ranked strongside defensive end prospect’s game at the high school 
level was simple: Get after the quarterback. Jefferson uses his speed and has a great burst coming off the edge.
He has a quick first step when getting off on the ball and uses his god-given talent 
to make plays in the backfield. Jefferson uses his hands well to go along with his good length and has the body frame to put on the necessary weight once he gets into a college weight room.
Jefferson will need to continue his development as an all-around defensive end 
since he relies on his speed and burst. Adding a consistent go-to move or two, to go along with his speed can make a world of a difference.
Jefferson will be deciding between Alabama, Auburn, Florida and Ole Miss from the 
comfort of his own home.
— LUIS TORRESFive-star offensive tackle Martez Ivey (6-foot-5, 271 pounds, 
Apopka, Florida, Apopka High)
Martez Ivey, the top-ranked offensive tackle in the 2015 recruiting class will be 
deciding between Florida and Auburn. 
He visited both schools last fall — Florida in October and Auburn in November. 
Ivey is a highly touted prospect, holding offers from 18 Division I schools. He earned a roster spot in the 2015 U.S. Army All-American Bowl, as well as being named to the Class 8A All-State team and the 2015 U.S. Army Player of the Year. 
Ivey explodes off the line incredibly well and drives down defenders with ease. He 
has good footwork as a pass blocker and makes it easy for running backs to follow his blocks around the edge as well. He played a little bit of right tackle throughout his high school career, but will likely find a spot at left tackle if he chooses Florida. 
Wherever he ends up, he is talented enough to have a real opportunity to see 
the field early. Ivey’s announcement is scheduled to take place during a ceremony at Apopka High School.
— MORGAN MORIARTYFive-star strongside defensive end Byron Cowart (6-foot-3, 252 
pounds, Seffner, Florida, Armwood High)
The No. 1 recruit in the country, Byron Cowart will announce at 9:10 a.m. today on 
ESPNU in a ceremony broadcast from the Armwood High gym. Cowart visited Florida on Jan. 23 and Auburn on Jan. 16 and has received 23 scholarship offers total.
After initially being scheduled to visit Florida State on Friday, Cowart decided 
against the official visit, and told ESPN.com he had narrowed his decision to UF and Auburn. Cowart’s visit to Florida made waves when he reportedly left the university ear -
ly after his mother, who attended the visit with him to meet with Coach Jim McElwain and defensive coordinator Geoff Collins, was called into work, ESPN reported. Cowart was initially recruited to Florida by former head coach Will Muschamp and former de -
fensive line coach Brad Lawing, now with Auburn and Florida State, respectively. 
Cowart, aside from having tremendous size, possesses a unique blend of speed 
and power to knock blockers off and disrupt the pass as well as excelling as a run-stopper.
— GRAHAM HALLWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
STAFF REPORT
National Signing Day is here and recruits are now able to sign their national letter of intent and formally commit to their college of choice. Here are 10 players to watch out for as Jim 
McElwain attempts to round out his first recruiting class as Florid a’s head coach. All information regarding rankings comes from Rivals.comTen recruits to look out for on National Signing Day
Four-star athlete D’Anfernee McGriff (6-foot-3, 225 pounds, Tal-
lahassee, Leon High)
D’Anfernee McGriff played a little bit of everything in high school: quarterback, run-
ning back and wide receiver. 
He’ll most likely settle at running back should he commit to UF. McGriff recently took 
his official visit to Florida on Jan. 23, a week after officially visiting Auburn. 
He decommitted from Auburn on Monday night with a cryptic message posted to his 
Twitter account @DMcgriff1 “This Recruiting Game Is Dirty. You Have To Remain Humble & Be Able To Block Things Out! Only The Strong Survive.” 
He had been verbally pledged to the Tigers since April 22. McGriff is a stockily built 
player with tree-trunk legs and a low center of gravity but does have decent speed for his size when catching the ball in the slot or out of the backfield. 
—  RICHARD JOHNSON
Three-star offensive tackle Nick Buchanan (6-foot-4, 285 
pounds, Dunwoody, Georgia, Dunwoody High)
Initially a verbal commitment to California in December, Nick Buchanan took an 
official visit to Florida on Jan. 30 and de-committed from the Golden Bears on Feb. 2 through his Twitter page. 
An offensive tackle by position, Buchanan may switch to guard in college to better 
suit his build and skill set. 
After running the triple-option his first three years in high school, Dunwoody High ran 
a more “downhill, power, no-huddle offense” he reportedly told Cal after receiving his offer. Buchanan is reportedly choosing between Florida and Georgia, who he visited on Jan. 23. Florida currently has five offensive linemen verbal commitments in the 2015 class.
— GRAHAM HALL
Three-star offensive lineman Michael Horton (6-foot-4, 320 
pounds, Atlanta, Lakeside High)
Mike Horton is verbally committed to Florida, but after his visit to Auburn last week -
end, he wanted to wait until today to make his final decision.
“I just had a great visit, and I’m going to talk to my mom about it and talk to my 
coaches and just think about it a little bit,” Horton told AL.com Sunday following his visit to Auburn. “I still like Florida a lot. Auburn’s a great school. I’m just going to think about it. I’m still committed to Florida.”
Horton committed to Florida last July when now-Auburn defensive coordinator Will 
Muschamp was still around as Florida’s head coach. He has kept his verbal commit-ment throughout the coaching change to Jim McElwain, but could be wavering a bit following his visit to Auburn.
Horton is pretty versatile as he can play both right and left guard and has also taken 
reps at left tackle as well at Lakeside. He’s a talented run blocker on film and is impres-sively quick off the ball even with his large frame. 
— MORGAN MORIARTY16, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015
CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Staff Writer @CayUnderwood
UF’s men’s tennis team has been nothing 
short of hot and cold thus far this season.
Despite this, the Gators have yet to drop 
back-to-back dual meets this season.
After coming back from a bittersweet week-
end, the then-No. 17 Gators were proud of the 
accomplishments in its loss against defending national champions USC and its 4-3 upset vic-tory against then-No. 4 UCLA.
“We’re respectable of the 
defending national champi-ons but we came out there 
and we were able to put it all 
on the line. I think there was 
a point in the match, towards the middle of the match, where both teams felt like this match could go either 
way,” coach Bryan Shelton said.  
“We put ourselves in a good position, we 
just weren’t able to put the ﬁ  nishing touches on that match.”
If the Gators have proven one thing this 
season, it is their capability of bouncing back from a loss.
Shelton doesn’t underestimate his team’s 
ability to play good tennis. 
“I always say that every player needs to 
have an identity and you’ve got to understand where your strengths are and you’ve got to play to your strengths,” Shelton said.“Some 
players have a hard time doing that. They go 
out there and they’re just hitting the ball.”Oliver Landert proved his identity over the 
weekend against UCLA.
The redshirt freshman clinched Florida’s 
victory against UCLA after defeating Joseph Di Giulio in three sets on the No. 5 court.
“Oliver understands his limitations but 
he also understands the things he does really 
well and he was really able to stick to his game 
plan, to continue to play aggressively and knowing his game is a tough one for players to deal with,” Shelton said.
Shelton will be the ﬁ  rst to admit his team is 
far from what they are capable of and have a long way to grow.
Now last weekend is just a game in the past 
for Florida.
Florida hits the road once again this Friday 
to play a familiar team, Florida State.
UF has yet to lose to the Seminoles since its 
2006-2007 season and the Gators do not plan 
on breaking their winning streak at 5 p.m. on 
Friday.
The third-year coach doesn’t underestimate 
the No.33 team even after seven years of W’s.
“FSU is a quality program. They’ve got a lot 
of talent on their roster and those guys know us extremely well…but we also know them pretty well too,” Shelton said. 
“We can’t just think that we beat UCLA and 
show up and we’ll get the job done. We’re go-ing to have to ﬁ  ght and claw and really that’s our team in a nutshell. 
“We’re not going to ‘ooh’ or ‘aah’ you when 
you see us but hopefully we’re going to out 
compete you.”UF men’s tennis aiming for consistency as season progresses
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Oliver Landert hits an underhand volley during Florida’s 9-3 win against Wil-
liam & Mary on Jan. 10 at the Ring Tennis Complex.
Shelton
Landert playing to his identity