VOLUME 109 ISSUE 115 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
84/64
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 7CLASSIFIEDS 11CROSSWORD  13SPORTS 15Q&A with singer Andrew Shepard of Roadkill Ghost Choir
They performed at frank conference, pg. 7. District 1 candidates: Weaver and Henry
Read proﬁ  les for the upcoming City Commission election, pg 3.  
Dragster enginer rebuilt as teaser to Gator Nationals
Watch the video on alligator.org. Dalton Guthrie 
and the UF baseball 
team ﬁ  nished its 
two-game series 
against Fairﬁ  eld 
with a sweep. Read 
the story on page 15.
 IT HAS PASSED ITS FIRST SUBCOMMITTEE.
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Florida craft beer lovers may soon be able to purchase 64-ounce 
growlers.
Breweries can currently sell 
28-ounce and 128-ounce beer jugs, more commonly known as growl-ers, but nothing in between. The 64-ounce growler is illegal in Florida but legal in every other state.“We’re kind of looked at like, 
‘Really, Florida? Really?’” said Bran-don Nappy, tactical marketing man-ager at Swamp Head Brewery.
House Bill 301, which unani-
mously passed its ﬁ  rst subcommit-tee Feb. 18, is clean and simple: It authorizes the sale of 28-, 64- and 128-ounce growlers as long as they are properly sealed and labeled.
The push for 64-ounce growl-
ers — among other issues — has become a public debate between the state’s craft breweries and beer distributors. Florida runs on a three-tiered alcohol system, which separates manufacturer, distributor and retailer to preserve competition within each tier.
But the bill has little opposition.Mitch Rubin, executive director 
of the Florida Beer Wholesalers As-sociation, which represents various 
Growler bills hold promising changes for craft beer industry
AARON ZEILER, ALEX HARRIS and 
KATHRYN VARN
Alligator Writers
Usually when Ohio-based anti-abortion 
group Created Equal makes its regular stop at 
UF, students do their best to ignore the graphic images of aborted fetuses set up on the Plaza of the Americas and Turlington Plaza.
But Wednesday, students traded their apathy 
for posters and chants in response to this year’s addition of a Jumbotron-sized screen showing video clips of actual abortion procedures.
About 50 UF and Santa Fe College students 
gathered Wednesday morning on the Plaza of the Americas, chanting and holding signs with phrases such as “My cat has more rights than my pussy” and “This was not on my campus 
tour.”  
The group, made up of mostly pro-abortion-
rights supporters, said they were concerned the 
photos and video would trigger an emotional response in students, said Kimmy Kemler, the UF student who organized the protest.
While walking to her modern British poetry 
class Tuesday, Kemler said the images caused her to panic and miss two of her classes as well 
as an attendance quiz.
“I’m a senior, so I’ve seen them every year,” 
Kemler said. “But this year they were just, sort 
of, more aggressive about it.”
This prompted Kemler to make a Facebook 
event Tuesday night, hoping for a few sup-porters to shelter students and lead them safely through the graphic images. Instead, more than 500 people RSVP’d to the event, which quickly 
became a forum for pro-abortion rights messag-
es and counter-protest organization.
“It just blew up and went out of my hands,” 
Kemler said.
Kemler, along with other protest leaders, es-
corted students and provided blankets for peo-ple to relax and talk if they were triggered. The university provided counselors as well. And some students brought their pets, including 
Kho the cat and Daisy the black-lab-pitbull mix.
“It makes sense to have this option available 
— to take a break and come pet a dog,” said Mi-
chelle Espinoza, a 20-year-old UF political sci-ence senior and Daisy’s owner.
Created Equal organizers were not aware the 
protest was going to happen, but they weren’t surprised, said Seth Drayer, the group’s director of training.
“We believe in free speech,” Drayer said. Students take to plaza to protest anti-abortion video
SEE ABORTION, PAGE 4
SEE BEER, PAGE 4Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
A student holds a sign reading, “Jesus isn’t a dick so keep him out of 
my vagina,” at the protest. Dozens of people gathered on the plaza to protest the graphic abortion imagery shown by Created Equal.Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Michael Prizament, 22, holds a sign during the protest that fo-cused on his belief that students shouldn’t have to worry about a panic attack just by going to class.Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Hannah Gutman, a 22-year-old Santa Fe College theater senior, holds a sign reading, “This was not on my campus tour,” at a protest  against anti-abortion group Created Equal held on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday afternoon. News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 115 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
RAIN
81/50THUNDER-
STORMS
84/59PARTLY 
CLOUDY
86/63CLOUDY
84/64THUNDER-
STORMS
84/64
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. 
CORRECTIONS
A story published 
Wednesday under the head-line “Hayes-Santos looking to foster innovation through efficient gov’t” spelled City 
Commissioner Lauren Poe’s WHAT’S HAPPENING?
The Musical Highway
Hear Gainesville’s music 
history come alive at the Matheson History Museum on Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Stan Lynch, who is the found-
ing drummer of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, will make a presentation high-lighting his experiences in the music industry. Tickets are $10. For more information, call 352-378-2280 or email info@mathesonmuseum.org.
Pi Day 2015 at UF
Come out and celebrate Pi Day a day early on Friday from 11:45 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Marston Science Library and CSE Building overhang. Dean of University Libraries Judith Russell and Provost Dr. 
Joseph Glover will kick off the 
event, followed by pie fund-raising, contests and refresh-ments. An awards ceremony and closing remarks will be held at 2:45 p.m. Free and open to the public.name wrong.
A photo caption published 
Tuesday incorrectly identified Xuan Ooi, Yvonne Yeung and Jia-Uei Chen as English majors. They are engineering majors. Also, the caption incorrectly re-ferred to the dance as a dragon dance. It is a lion dance.
A photo caption published Feb. 
20 spelled Jia-Uei Chen’s name wrong.2, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Chris Weaver wants voters to know that 
even though he hasn’t lived in Gainesville 
long, he is still qualiﬁ  ed to represent them.
For two years, he worked in Tallahassee 
budgeting and ﬁ  nancing in the mayor’s of-
ﬁ  ce while working on his master’s degree at 
Florida Agricultural & Mechanical Univer-sity.
More recently, he has spent the past eight 
months working for Alachua County in bud-get and ﬁ  nance.
At the top of his agenda is reducing 
Gainesville Regional Utilities rates. He wants to help control water and electricity prices, 
especially because students don’t have much 
control or say when it comes to increased rates.
Out of the ﬁ  ve candidates, Weaver said 
he has reached out the most to students. He knocked on every sorority house’s door in his district and requested feedback on his plat-form. The 28-year-old attended student orga-nization meetings and sorority and fraternity 
meetings to engage with students and inform 
them about his campaign. 
“I have to ﬁ  nd that middle ground of what 
students want to hear,” he said. “It’s more so ﬁ  nding something that uniﬁ  es the students.”
He said the city’s expenses, such as park-
ing fees and towing ﬁ  nes, add costs on top of a student’s tuition.
He said it was disheartening when he 
tried to interact with students but often found they weren’t involved in City Com-mission elections.
“I’ve had a hard time explaining to the 
students why what happens in District 1 is important to them,” he said.
He was also a UF student senator for 
graduate students until he left in Fall 2014. 
One UF student senator who helped 
Weaver campaign for a couple of months was Nacuya Lewis. She met him through Senate.
“He was self motivated,” the 20-year-old 
UF public relations and political science ju-nior said. “Not only for the Gainesville com-munity but for the UF community.”
Weaver is ﬁ  nishing his Ph.D. in public ad-
ministration and public property at UF.
Weaver served in the U.S. Army as an Air-
borne Infantryman with the 82nd Airborne Division — 1st Battalion 325th Airborne In-fantry Regiment until he was honorably dis-charged in 2010.
He said even if he doesn’t win, at least his 
name will be known to voters who see him on the ballot.
“In the future I might think about running 
in another district or an At-Large,” he said.THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Andres Leiva/ Alligator StaffWeaver aims to reduce GRU 
rates, engage students in city
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
Scherwin Henry is a family man.
A lifelong resident of Gainesville, Hen-
ry grew up in a tight-knit family in East Gainesville.
“My life was very happy,” the District 1 city 
commissioner candidate said. “We enjoyed the simple things. My folks worked hard. They taught us to believe in who we are as a per-son.”
The UF alumnus, who graduated in 1983 
with a bachelor’s degree in food science, be-lieves in fostering stronger families through economic development.
“We need to bring forth the different com-ponents economically that will allow families the opportunity to have better jobs to earn bet-ter pay,” the 62-year-old said.
He listed the Alachua County Fairgrounds, 
the Gainesville Regional Airport and the Gainesville Technology Enterprise Center as assets to better the economy in East Gainesville.
Part of the economic issues facing 
Gainesville, Henry said, come from the city us-
ing UF as an “economic crutch.”
He said the city has always relied on the 
university and “got lazy and not creative” 
when it came to diversifying the economy 
without being reliant on government service jobs.
Part of Henry’s platform is bringing job 
diversity to Gainesville by making it more at-tractive to technical skilled workers, such as plumbers and electricians, and not just an in-formation and biotechnology economy.
“We need to give our citizens choices,” he 
said.
Henry also believes in government trans-
parency and being more involved in the com-
munity. The best way to be held accountable 
and accessible, Henry said, is by talking to the people.
Henry served as City Commissioner twice 
before, ﬁ  rst in 2006 and again in 2009. He also ran for mayor in 2013, but lost to Ed Braddy.
Armando Grundy, who has known Henry 
for eight years, said he ﬁ  rst met Henry when he was a commissioner. Grundy approached 
him about issues he had with public transit.
Henry expanded the bus hours in East 
Gainesville until 11 p.m., which Grundy said 
was a huge blessing to him and others.
“He was accessible,” Grundy said. “That 
meant a lot to me.”
Henry’s platform this time, he said, is dif-
ferent in some ways but also a continuation of things he started during his previous terms as commissioner.
“For change to come about, it doesn’t al-
ways have to be different,” he said. “What you do is build upon the foundation that is there.”Henry aims to bring job diversity, 
better economy to Gainesville
Andres Leiva/ Alligator StaffCandidates for City Commission District 1
Be sure to check back tomorrow for the rest of the District 1 candidates.“We want … both sides to be 
heard because what we want is an informed public discus-sion.”
Mark Harrington, Created 
Equal’s national director, said his organization accomplished that goal. He said his anti-abortion advocates convinced several students to change their views on abortion.
“We call it putting a pebble 
in their shoe,” he said, “giving them something to think about 
long after we’re gone.”
The video was particularly 
effective, he said
“A still is worth 1,000 words, 
but a video is worth a million,” 
Harrington said.
The protesters were noth-
ing unusual, he said. Created Equal faces similar opposition at almost every event, and UF’s activists elicited no complaints from him. However, in a Face-book post published Wednes-day, the Created Equal page called the UF protesters “vile, 
mean and rude” in a comment.
The protest stayed tame ex-
cept for one incident that drew 
University Police to Turlington Plaza. Just after 1 p.m., a man walking through the plaza got upset and knocked visual aids off a Created Equal table, said UPD spokesman Maj. Brad 
Barber. Officers responded to 
the area, but members did not press charges, and the student apologized.
To some students, the con-
flict at stake was one between right to free speech and right to an education. Megan Smith, 
a UF costume design senior, 
held a sign with a quote from UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes from an Alligator story pre-viewing Created Equal’s pres-ence on campus.
“If you don’t want to see it, 
don’t walk over there,” it read.
“I feel like it’s telling us that 
the school cares more about these people being here than our right to an education,” 
Smith, 21, said. “Telling us 
to avoid two main centers of campus for two days doesn’t work.”
Clay Calvert, a UF journal-
ism professor and expert on First Amendment Rights, said that, like all Americans, Cre-ated Equal is allowed to engage 
in “offensive speech” in a pub-
lic forum as long as it does not 
fall under the category of un-
protected speech, like obscenity 
or fighting words.
“Because it’s hard to draw 
clear lines, as a public univer-sity we have to tolerate speech that we might find offensive. The proper response is, yes, to stage a counter-protest,” Cal-vert said. “We add more play, 
more speech, to the market-
place of ideas rather than re-moving some.”
Back on the plaza, Created 
Equal group members packed up the signs and turned off the screen at about 3:30 p.m.
The students, some at the 
plaza since the protest’s 9 a.m. 
start, took the last opportunity 
to make their message clear: “Hey-hey, ho-ho this propa-ganda has got to go.”beer distributors, said he’s optimistic about it becoming law.
Its companion bill, Senate Bill 186, legalizes the 
64-ounce growlers but also tackles a brewery’s ability to have tasting rooms. Current law states that a brewery can only serve its beer to customers if the taproom promotes Florida tourism.
Nappy said this is a loophole. The distributors say it 
allows breweries to act as manufacturers and retailers while cutting out distributors, disrupting the system.
SB 186 would clarify the law to make it easier for 
breweries to have tasting rooms, said Josh Aubuchon, executive director of the Florida Brewers Guild.
“I am cautiously optimistic,” Aubuchon said. “There 
is still some opposition.”
Opponents want to limit the number of locations 
where a brewery can have a vendor’s license.
“They’re supposed to be in the brewery business,” 
Rubin said. “They’re the producer.”
SB 186 unanimously passed through its first com-
mittee and will be heard in the Commerce and Tourism Committee on Monday.
If the growler debate was settled, Nappy said it 
wouldn’t change the way Swamp Head operates. It would, however, demonstrate awareness for the state’s craft beer industry — something that brewers have been relentlessly working toward for years. 4, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Turban Day
Jessie Wang, a 19-year-old UF psychology sophomore, takes a selfie with Stephanie Wong, a 20-year-old 
UF political science junior, on Turlington Plaza on Wednesday. They wore turbans put on by members of the Sikh Students Association to educate students about Sikhism.Free speech a concern
ABORTION , from 
page 1HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
After weeks of searching, the 
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 
revealed its new dean Tuesday.
David Richardson was appoint-
ed dean of UF’s largest college, and 
Michael McKee was named its vice 
president and chief financial officer.Richardson and McKee will 
officially take office Friday after holding their positions as interims since June. They will each be paid 
$300,000 annually.
There were three finalists for the 
dean position, and students had the 
opportunity to interact with them and ask questions during forums the week of Feb. 10.Richardson  
wrote in an email that he is hon-
ored to work at 
UF, one of the na-
tion’s top institu-tions. He said he hopes to test and improve learning 
methods in the classroom and fur-ther academic success and engage-ment.
“I hope to partner with our stu-
dents to involve them in our mis-
sion,” he said, “and make sure every 
CLAS student finds a place to learn life-long lessons through engage-ment with the community, nation, or world.”
McKee will be responsible for identifying and allocating funds for the college’s goals and ideas.
His appointment follows a search 
launched last summer.
McKee said using all of UF’s re-
sources to improve the college will be an important part of his new po-sition.
“I’m absolutely thrilled (to be ap-
pointed),” McKee said.UF’s CLAS confirms new dean, vice president after long search
BEER , from page 1One bill discusses brewery taproomsRichardson
THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
CAMPUS
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
The UF Levin College of Law has reclaimed 
its position as top law school in the state.
Levin was placed as the No. 1 law school in 
Florida in U.S. News and World Report’s annual 
ranking of graduate schools released Tuesday.
Last year, Levin placed second behind Flori-
da State University, the first time the college had not been named first in the state since the rank-ings began, according to the college.
Levin placed 24th among public schools in 
the nation and 47th out of more than 150 schools.
George Dawson, interim dean of the college, 
said the ranking is based on several factors, in-cluding GPA and LSAT scores of newly admit-
ted students, student-to-faculty ratio, bar results, 
resources the school allocates to students and job 
placement statistics for students nine months af-
ter graduation, among other things.
“It’s a fairly detailed formula,” he said.
Dawson credited the rise in UF’s ranking to 
the college’s Center for Career Development, which works with students to find jobs after graduation.According to the college, nearly 73 percent 
of its graduates are employed nine months after graduation in full-time jobs that require passing the bar exam.
The rise in ranking comes the same week as 
the college’s search for a new dean, and Dawson 
said he thinks it will have a positive effect. 
Elizabeth White, a second-year law student, 
said she’s noticed Levin doesn’t have the cut-
throat competitive nature other law schools have.
“Our community here is so strong and so 
helpful,” the 23-year-old said. 
White said the ranking is important because 
potential employers take it into consideration.
However, rankings shouldn’t be a definitive 
judgment on any law school because they don’t measure everything, Dawson said.
Dawson said while he is glad Levin moved 
up in the ranking, some of its unique aspects weren’t noted.
“What (the rankings) do is they provide peo-
ple with a way of trying to figure out whether there is a higher-ranked law school that they get 
into or not,” he said, “but I don’t think they do 
much more than that.”Levin ranks as FL’s top law school
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College senators passed 
several bills and held a debate for Stu-dent Government election candidates Wednesday night.
Santa Fe President Jackson Sasser 
briefly visited the meeting to talk to students about second lady Jill Biden and Undersecretary of Education Ted Mitchell’s visit Monday. 
He also urged senators to ensure 
they’re representing their constituents effectively.
“We are free here,” Sasser said. 
“This body is free to do what you 
want. That’s government. I’m just en-
couraging you as you move forward to represent students and not just per-sonal interests.” 
Student Body presidential candi-
date Conor Flynn, vice presidential candidate Hannah Gwynn and trea-surer candidate Justin Deese partici-
pated in a debate.
Flynn and Gwynn expressed a 
strong desire to better represent stu-
dents, not push their own agendas and to get rid of the “drama” within Student Government that has oc-curred over the past few months.
“I feel that for Student Government 
to work efficiently, we have to hear of 
issues of the students,” Flynn said.
Flynn and Gynn are running un-
opposed. Deese’s rival, Timothy Berg-
man, did not show up to the debate.SFC Senate holds debate 
for student candidates  THE CITY IS ACQUIRING THE LAND 
FROM THE STATE SOON.
EMILY CARDINALI
Alligator Staff Writer ecardinali@alligator.org
Gainesville’s Empowerment Center Over-
sight Advisory Board discussed Wednesday 
how to govern the tent city around Grace Marketplace, called Dignity Village, after the city acquires the land from the state in the 
next few weeks.
The board focused on issues including law 
enforcement jurisdiction; water, trash recep-
tacles and bathroom availability; and whether Dignity Village should remain separate from Grace Marketplace, a local homeless shelter.Currently, Dignity Village forms a “U” 
around the outer perimeter of the shelter’s fenced-in area. The residents have organized it into eight blocks, represented by small plas-tic placards labeled A through H.
Because it is off the grounds of the shel-
ter, residents do not have a strict set of rules to follow and have formed a self-governance 
system. Once the city acquires the land, the 
questions will start flowing.
Should the advisory board appoint a paid 
position to manage the area? Should a charity organization run Dignity Village as a separate entity from Grace? Should Grace undertake monitoring of the area and provide additional services to the encampment? Or should it re-main as it is, with a few respected people who live in the village keeping tabs on everyone?
Current resident Nicholas Shaffer, 32, said 
he thinks the best option for Dignity Village is self-governance with organizational support from the board. The residents already have formed a community, modeled like a city within a city. He said the best way to keep ev-erything under control is to create a ballot of 
people who live there and have residents vote 
to elect leaders.
That way if there is a problem, residents 
will have a designated person to ask for help, he said. That person, in turn, would interact with the board and law enforcement to com-municate the needs of the encampment.
“It’s very much like old school America 
here,” Shaffer said. “You know your neigh-bor, you know their schedules. We look out for each other and take care of the commu-nity.”
County Commissioner Mike Byerly said 
that working on safety and security with law enforcement, alleviating water and sanitation issues, and determining a leader are the most pressing issues for the board. He said resi-
dents expressed their needs to the board.
“Now we need to move pretty quickly to 
help,” he said.
Shaffer lived in the village in August and 
September. He returned in December and still 
lives there now. 
“When you talk about camping rules, it 
scares the crap out of me,” he told the board. “We’re not camping. This is home.”
Advisory board discusses issues in tent city surrounding shelterReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
Right on, students 
who exercised First 
Amendment rights
Wednesday was the second day the so-called “Justice 
Riders” brought their message to campus. This time, they brought a Jumbotron to the Plaza of the Americas, 
from which they broadcasted footage of abortion procedures.
The posters and signs were already overkill. Created Equal’s 
use of the Jumbotron was an unbelievable display of its extrem-ist attitudes and ineffective tactics.
Traditionally, UF students had only singular responses to 
such inﬂ  ammatory rhetoric and outrageous displays. Tell the activists to shove it where the sun don’t shine. Wear headphones and ignore it all. Kick the signs over. Stay home and miss class. Varied as they are, these responses have one core theme in com-mon: They’re the responses of individuals reacting to this thing on their own.
But Wednesday, Created Equal and its Jumbotron weren’t 
alone.
A protest organized on Facebook signaled the end of the 
Student Body’s patience with Created Equal. By 9 a.m., dozens of protesters were already present on the plaza, holding signs, shouting slogans and sheltering students from group members.
By 2 p.m., there were enough protesters to line both sides of 
the sidewalk. Some engaged Created Equal activists in debate; some escorted students to and from class.
Eventually, Created Equal and the protesters stood clearly 
divided. The tension was electric — sensing heresy, Tom the preacher seemed to materialize out of wherever it is he comes from. At about 3:30 p.m., Created Equal packed up its propa-ganda pieces and left.
Today, Created Equal will perform its stunt of a demonstra-
tion at the University of South Florida. The Justice Rides, the self-proclaimed successor to the legacy of the Freedom Rides, will continue all week despite the absurdity of that comparison. Created Equal’s tiresome invocations of the Freedom Rides and Martin Luther King Jr. seem pretty presumptuous to us. As for us, the only similarity between King’s campaign and Created Equal’s is that they both involve transportation by bus.
We’re lucky to have an academic climate that values open 
debate and free expression — nearly to a fault. Folks like Cre-
ated Equal, preacher Tom, the Turlington preacher and what-
have-you take advantage of these liberal ideals, using our public forums to spew their noxious views. They use the First Amend-ment as an excuse to do their nasty business, and they’re totally within their rights to do so. They can’t be stopped by force or law.
But they can be challenged under the same blanket of pro-
tection that allows them to ﬂ  ourish. Too often, we as a Student Body allow them to impose their views on the rest of us. On 
Wednesday, students raised their voices in resistance to Created 
Equal and its tasteless shock campaign. Anti-abortion or pro-
abortion rights, the Student Body overcame apathy and seized 
the power and privileges that are its right. It’s an encouraging 
sign of a more empowered future for everyone on this campus.
51 TOTAL VOTES71% YES
29% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgWednesday’s question: Did you see the 
abortion signs?Today’s question: Did you participate in the protest 
against Created Equal?Well-rounded classes better for students 
Change is all around us. While change is a constant 
force, industries in this country are struggling to adapt. The changing industries that get the most press 
attention are print journalism, cable television and book pub-lishing.
While the changes in these industries are often overplayed 
and exaggerated for dramatic effect in the mainstream me-dia, one industry in particular has truly been struggling to adapt to a changing environment for quite some time. I am talking about our higher-education system, which has not necessarily changed for the better.    
Dan Berrett, writing in the Chronicle of Higher Educa-
tion, gives us the date when the university system changed forever: Feb. 28, 1967. Before this date, students sought a col-
lege degree in order to pursue their passions before tracking 
down a job. Degrees in the classics, the arts and philosophy were popular. Many students would enter into a profession irrespective of their path after graduation. Seeking these de-grees broadened a student’s intellectual curiosity and cre-ative capacity.   
In a recent Washington Post story, the president of Wes-
leyan University remarked how his father was content with becoming a cab driver after graduating college.
Oddly enough, working as a cab driver back in the day 
could probably pay for a substantial portion of tuition bills. The article notes that “an entire tuition bill could be paid by working odd jobs during the summer.”
This all changed after that day in February when Ronald 
Reagan, then governor of California, declared the taxpayers of the state shouldn’t be “subsidizing intellectual curiosity.”
From then on, Berrett notes the shift in the intent of stu-
dents. Students now seek a degree that gets them a job in-
stead of a degree that intellectually inspires them.
The statistics highlight this shift: the Cooperative Institu-
tional Research Program conducted a survey that revealed 
86.1 percent of college freshmen go to college in order “to be able to get a better job.” Compare this to the 46.6 percent that seek a degree in order “to make (them) a more cultured person.”
Such a radical shift in the intent of an education has left the system looking for answers. The system is struggling, and blame is abundant.
Many critics blame colleges for 
increased tuition. Some job-seek-
ing students complain that the 
university offers too many classes that are not practical.
Others blame colleges for in-
graining a belief of entitlement in 
their students. Students are led to believe they deserve top-paying jobs. A recent graduate would balk at the idea of be-coming a cab driver. The simple fact of the matter is that it’s incredibly difﬁ  cult for colleges today. It’s incredibly easy to 
blame universities because many of them are in a no-win sit-
uation. Colleges either completely forgo their traditional role or simply take money from students, in the process handing them a worthless degree in a bad economy.   
But some colleges are getting things right.I think UF gets things right in higher education for a few 
reasons. First, the university forces — yes, forces — students to take classes that spread their intellectual horizons. Stu-dents must take classes that expand their interest in the clas-
sics, behavioral studies and biological sciences. In this way, 
UF is staying true to the original intent of a university educa-tion. Taking What is the Good Life — please send all angry letters to the opinions editor — is a good idea. If the class is conducted correctly, it is a fantastic introduction to more thoughtful classes at school.
The Gordon Rule, a minimum writing requirement to 
graduate, focuses students on more practical subjects. Every employer needs an employee that writes well. 
And ﬁ  nally, the Career Resource Center is invaluable to 
the job-pursuing student.   
If more schools start to embrace change while preserving 
the original intent of higher education as UF does, perhaps we can start talking more about this development and less about newspapers, cable and Amazon publishing.
Michael Beato is a UF political science junior. His column 
appears on Thursdays.THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgtheAvenue    Gash, an S&M punk band, performs tonight: 
We spoke to lead vocalist Tibbie X, pg. 8. The Avenue interviews actor Nick Frost: 
He spoke to us about “Unfinished Business” and acting, pg. 10.Keep up with the Avenue 
by following us on Twitter @TheAlligator.MICHELA BEEDA
Avenue Writer
If you missed Roadkill Ghost 
Choir when the band performed at frank right before Spring Break, you might want to give it a listen the next time you’re looking for new music.
This indie-alternative rock 
band from Deland, Florida, has been reviewed by Rolling Stone as a mix between “latter-day Tom Petty” and “My Morning Jacket’s Jim James.”
Since the release of their de-
but extended play “Quiet Light” in 2013, the band has toured and opened for Band of Horses and performed in musical festivals like Bonnaroo.
Singer and songwriter Andrew 
Shepard of Roadkill Ghost Choir spoke with the Avenue about per-forming in Gainesville, changing things up and the personality to which he compares the band.
What is your favorite part 
about performing in towns like Gainesville where the music scene is a huge factor in the cul-ture?
When you play in a town that 
doesn’t subscribe to one type of music, they are more willing to grasp things that maybe normally people wouldn’t, like if it’s not in their genre or something like that, or it’s not their type of sound.
I know your second album, 
“In Tongues,” is a completely different style from your first al-bum, “Quiet Light.” I’ve read in some of your past interviews that you wanted to change it up and move forward as a band with this second album. What was the hardest part about stepping out of the comfort zone of your first album?
Just changing in itself was 
probably the most difficult thing to do just because with our first EP it was more kind of folky. Moving forward knowing we might alienate people who started listening to our band, changing up the sound, that was difficult.
I’ve read that a lot of your sec-
ond album deals with fact that you guys have been on the road so much lately and the transition that you underwent during your tour. Which song or set of lyrics do you think really portrays this feeling the most?“Lazarus, You’ve Been Dream-
ing.” That was the first song that I ever wrote on the road and that was kind of like the moment where I hit the wall.
What advice would you give 
to other bands that want to change their style for a new al-bum?
Just do it. Don’t bother with 
genres or anything like that; just make music that you like to listen to. At the end of the day, that’s what I’ve been trying to do now: just make music that I enjoy lis-tening to. Forget about everyone else’s expectations of your band, because it’s your band.
I know you said in past inter-
views that you’re a fan of mu-sicians like Bob Dylan, Thom Yorke and Jeff Tweedy. Besides musical inspirations, who is the person or people who inspire your songwriting daily?
Cormac McCarthy. His books 
are great. It’s very bleak, I like that. I like that about him. There’s films, too. I think “Gone Girl” was great.
What is the one thing as a 
band that you hope to learn in the future in regards to both mu-sical and personal growth?
This album, I think we are just 
going to do what we want to do like completely and not compro-mise at all. I’m definitely going into it making the conscious effort not to hold back anything. Wheth-er that means having a 12-minute song of just, like, me screaming over an accordion — you know we would never do that — but you know, just not holding our-selves to any particular standard, just trying everything.
If your band could have per-
sonality, what type of person do you think it would embody?
Larry David, because he’s hi-
larious to me. (He’s) just really uncomfortable and awkward and that sums up our band pretty well.
THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/AVENUE
Courtesy to the Alligator
Roadkill Ghost Choir, a band from Deland, Florida, poses for a photo. The band recently performed in Gainesville at frank 2015.
Q&A with singer Andrew Shepard of Roadkill Ghost Choirmusic
LAURA GOMEZ
Avenue Writer
Arrow’s Aim Records wel-
comes music lovers to its third 
and largest record fair taking place Sunday.
The fair will be hosted at The 
Wooly, located at 20 N. Main St., directly next door to Arrow’s Aim Records.
The event will run from 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m., and admission is free, except for the first hour — which is $5 for buyers who want first dibs.
More than 25 tables of new 
and used vinyls, CDs, cassettes, posters and music memorabilia will be sold by vendors hailing from Florida and Georgia.
“The fair is fun for any fan of 
music, record collector or not,” Daniel Halal, owner of Arrow’s Aim Records, wrote in an email.
Guests can expect all types 
of vinyl from a variety of genres being sold. The selection spans from 50-cent budget bins to rare and collectible records.Classic rock vinyls 
from bands such as Pink Floyd, Led Zeppelin and The Beatles have been best sellers at the past two fairs, Halal said.
In the past, about 300 
people have attended the event. This year, more than 500 people have RSVP’d on Face-book.
According to a Billboard ar-
ticle from last December, young consumers are the strongest vi-nyl demographic. The record re-surgence has taken off as a result of Record Store Day, which was kicked off by Metallica in 2008 and takes place every April.
“More people are buy-
ing records now than ten 
years ago, but it’s still a tiny frac-tion of what it used to be, could be and hopefully will be,” Halal said. “People are excited about having something physical in an increasingly digital world.”
Zach Marino, a 23-year-old UF classics senior, enjoys listening to  records.
“My dad has a ton of records 
and I’ve always listened to mu-sic,” Marino wrote in an email. 
“Plus the album covers them-
selves make good wall decora-tions.”
Marino said his collection of 
about 50 records started off with a few given to him by his dad and friends. When he moved out, his dad gave him his old record player and his collection grew 
from there.
He said he hopes to find “Pee-
Wee Get My Gun” by T-Model 
Ford at the fair.
Arrow’s Aim Records hosts record fair Sunday at The Wooly
The first hour is $5; admission after that is free THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015
MIKAYLA MOTT
Avenue Writer
A Philadelphia-based band named after fe-
male genitalia is bringing BDSM to Gainesville 
tonight.
Gash, an S&M rock band, will perform at 8 
p.m. at Loosey’s Downtown, 120 SW First Ave., 
as part of its first tour, Astral Liberation. Entry 
to the concert is $5.
Lead singer and submissive, Tibbie X, spoke 
with the Avenue about the band’s performanc-es and goals.
How did you get involved in Gash?I was looking for a band that I could write 
music for and have more of a voice and a say. I put an ad on Craigslist and the lead guitarist 
got in touch with me. Domme Stephxecutioner 
was performing at a burlesque show and it was perfect.
How did you get the idea to be an S&M 
band?
We didn’t plan that, it just came out in the 
music. Once we started writing the music, I started getting really visual ideas. The music will direct me visually. I feel sometimes more 
like a punk storyteller. I’m singing more with 
emotions and trying to connect with people.Can you explain how a usual show would 
go?
We kind of go with the energy of whatever 
happens naturally. There are mosh pits, but they’re different than a regular mosh pit be-cause we’re open sexually and are very much involved in the LGBT community. It’s not a tra-
ditional testosterone, beat-each-other-up mosh 
pit. It’s a party pit. It’s beautiful. Sometimes I look out at what’s going on and the show ex-tends into the audience.
Do all of your lyrics relate to S&M?Our lyrics vary with each song. We sing 
about anti-oppression in all forms. I write about my life, and sometimes we’ll pick something to write about. We’re anti-religion but we do voo-
doo stuff and relate to some spiritual stuff.
What is the main message you want to get 
across to audience members?
There’s not much separation between us, 
and that’s what we want. Right now, our main 
purpose is to liberate rock ’n’ roll. We’re cre-ating this movement with anyone. We don’t want people to hide who they are to come see a punk band. We’re leading people into this 
revolution of liberation and acceptance of ev-
eryone’s identities. We welcome everybody to our shows.S&M band Gash to play tonight music
NICOLETTE HOFFMAN
Avenue Writer
Santa Fe College’s Fine 
Arts Department will soon dive into New York City’s Upper West Side rivalry be-tween two street gangs in the 
1950s.
Broadway musical “West 
Side Story” is playing at 
Santa Fe from March 18 through 21 at 7:30 p.m., with a matinee at 2 p.m.  March 21. Admission is $9 for seniors, children and UF students; $12 for balcony seats; and $15 for orchestra and mezzanine seats. It’s 
free for Santa Fe faculty, staff and 
students.
Alora Haynes, chairwoman of 
the Fine Arts Department, said Sar-ah Harkness-Sebastian, the play’s choreographer, is honoring Jerome Robbins’ original choreography by doing her own version but using a 
style similar to Robbins’.
“Everything about this 
play is moving toward the success for the students and the college,” Haynes said.
The roles of Tony and 
Bernardo will be played by Jimmy Boorum and Charles South, actors from New 
York City. Officer Krupke will be played by Doug Diekow, a local ac-tor and professor at Santa Fe.
In an email, South said he chose 
Bernardo because of the similari-
ties in passion and understanding of 
family interdependence.
“I’m looking forward to re-ex-
ploring this role in a new light,” South said. “I’ll be surrounded by a group of new and thirsty young ac-tors.”‘West Side Story’ musical 
at SFC to start WednesdayCARLA VIANNA
Avenue Writer
With new CrossFit gyms spring-
ing up in Gainesville, I wanted to 
find out firsthand why it’s so popu-lar.
From what I’ve seen on TV, 
CrossFit is an insane, high-intensity workout. The girls and guys com-peting look like beasts and they throw around giant tires for fun.
I doubted that a fairly small, 
115-pound, nonathletic girl would make it at a CrossFit gym, but I told Sherman Merricks, owner of Dynasty CrossFit, to sign me up 
anyway.  
An upbeat rap song was blast-
ing when I walked into the gym. 
Animal-like grunts escaped from people of all shapes and sizes exer-cising in the back of the gym.
As one girl struggled to lift a 
weighted bar over her head, others cheered her on.
When she did it, everyone 
clapped.
“Here we go. Two more! Stay 
tight,” Merricks said to another girl, who then dropped the bar and fell to the ground.
“That’s all right,” he 
said.
Merricks came over to 
greet me.
“Are you nervous?” he 
said.
In my head, the answer was yes, 
but I said no. He told me I could warm up, but I had no idea how to. I just sat there in my high school swim T-shirt, which I wore to ap-pear more athletic.
When my class began, Merricks 
played a YouTube video showing various adults of different profes-
sions turning to CrossFit to stay fit.
He then wrote our warm-up on 
a whiteboard: 50 jumping jacks and 
three sets of five pushups, 10 situps and 15 air squats.
“Do you work out regularly?” 
Merricks asked.
I looked down and shamefully 
shook my head.
Every movement in CrossFit 
has a proper form. We began with the air squat.
Feet about hip-width apart. 
Hands up to make sure your chest stays open. Squat down. Butt out. Get low enough so that a marble placed on your knee would roll back onto your thigh.
I couldn’t get it quite 
right, and every time he said the word butt, I 
laughed. When Merricks said it takes three years to get the perfect squat, I lost all hope.
The 60-minute class was fol-
lowed by practice. We practiced the air squat, holding up a weight-less bar, holding up a weighted bar, then putting all that together in the extremely complicated air-squat-
jump-with-bar exercise.
Although my lack of coordina-
tion severely disrupted my ability 
to follow along, I liked that each exercise was taught in steps. 
If I were thrown into a regu-
lar class, I would squat the wrong way and bend my knees when I shouldn’t or stick my elbows out 
too much. That’s how you hurt 
yourself, Merricks said. It wasn’t awful, but it sure wasn’t easy.
“We’ll only make fun of you af-
ter you leave,” he said, joking.
And I don’t doubt they did.A rookie’s experience with CrossFit
KERI AND KELSI MATWICK
Avenue Writers
When you walk into a newly con-
structed house, you will likely find the kitchen to be a main focus. Often described as the “heart,” the kitchen is designed to be the center of the 
home. This wasn’t always the case.
Before World War I, the domes-
tic kitchen space was an exclusive 
domain of working-class women employed as cooks and maids. The kitchen was located to the rear of the house beyond public view and they were often small and inefficient. 
In the 1940s, the kitchen design 
improved, mainly due to the efforts of women architects and designers and the demands of middle-class women. Fewer homes had servants, and it was in middle-class women’s interests to create a space that was less isolated, more accessible and more efficient.
Enter the “kitchen triangle,” a de-
sign created by the University of Illi-nois School of Architecture that con-nects the three major work centers: the stove, the sink and the refrigera-tor. Aside from its design change, the kitchen’s location moved, too, and is integrated with other shared domes-tic spaces. This “open design” allows for simultaneous cooking, eating and entertaining.
Rosemary Sadez Friedmann, an 
interior designer and author of “Mys-tery of Color,” said that in the 1950s, color was introduced to the tradition-ally white appliances. The 1960s saw coppertone, which has remained on the top of the list of favorite colors. The ‘70s brought naturals, the ‘80s and ‘90s returned whites, and with 
the new century came stainless steel. 
Today, white remains the most popu-lar choice for kitchen appliances with stainless and black finishes.
A well-planned kitchen does not 
necessarily mean a triangle design, nor one that is large. As the kitchen design continues to evolve, the best one is one that inspires your cooking.Kitchen: heart of home 10, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Actor Nick Frost, known for his roles in “Shaun of the Dead” and 
other British comedies, stars in “Unfinished Business” with Vince Vaughn and Dave Franco. 
MELISSA MIHM
Avenue Writer 
You may know him as Ed from the 2004 film 
“Shaun of the Dead” or the voice of Flynn from 
“Ice Age: Continental Drift.” But even though he’s mainly known for his roles in British comedies and being Simon Pegg’s closest pal, Nick Frost has 
teamed up with Vince Vaughn and Dave Franco 
in “Unfinished Business,” which was released in theaters March 6. Keep reading if you want to hear all about Nick’s latest American film, how he prepared for his role, how he balances out being an actor and a family man and his plans for the future. 
You’ve starred in various British comedies. 
However, “Unfinished Business” is more Ameri-can. To you, how do the comedic styles differ, and if they do, how does that influence how you approach a role?
I think, generally, even though obviously a 
script is always going to be important for a film, for a movie, I think over with you guys, you’re always keen to improvise a little more and find things in the script that perhaps weren’t there be-
fore. I think, as an actor … you have to come on set 
A) knowing your lines but B) knowing that at one point, that script’s going to go away, and you get to freewheel it slightly. It’s good doing improvisa-tions with actors who can do improvisations. A lot of improv always ends up with people having an argument, and it’s kind of ego-driven in terms of sometimes one actor doesn’t want to let the other actor get the last word in a scene. It can become 
very confusing, but everyone on this picture was 
very generous in terms of improvising.
What got you into acting? Is it something that 
you knew you wanted to do from a young age or did your interest in it develop over time?
I never, ever wanted to act. I never wanted to 
be a performer in any way, shape or form. I think a younger me probably wanted to be a novelist, 
if I’m honest, or a painter. You know, an artist. I 
never wanted to do what I do now. But I had an opportunity about 12 years ago to be in a sitcom that Simon (Pegg) had written and Edgar (Wright) was going to direct and I kind of came away from that process really, really loving it and seeing it as an opportunity. And from that point on, I never really looked back. I guess acting for me was just essentially playing a big game of dress up and re-membering words.
Is it difficult to balance out being a father with 
your career?
Oh, not at all. There’s no balance at all. It’s all 
about my son. He has to be No. 1 at this point. But I think I’m in a very fortunate position that I can bring my son to work. Not a lot of people do jobs where children are actively encouraged on set. He loves it. I don’t think I’m in a position where I have to choose, fortunately. I combine the two very eas-ily and my wife is a fantastic mother, and I’m very happy that I kind of get the best of both worlds.
Can you tell us a little about your character 
Bill Whilmsley?
Yeah, big Bill Whilmsley, he’s just a bloody 
good egg. I think he works for a man who he sees as really horrible and that man is James Marsden, a man who in real life isn’t really horrible. He’s ac-tually really beautiful. And I think he just decides that he’s had enough and he wants to make sure 
that the good guy comes out on top for once and 
he makes a stand. I like that about him and about the character. He’s jovial and a little bit sad and single and a bit lonely. But he picks himself up, and I love that, you know?
Can you relate to him in any way?Yeah, I think Bill’s just the kind of everyman re-
ally, apart from the fact that he is kind of a leather-
clad bear. And I think I can relate to his bear-ness 
and the fact that he just decides that he wants to do the right thing, you know. That’s not always nec-essarily the easiest choice to make. And I’m glad he makes it in the film.
What are your plans for the future?Take time to develop things for myself and for 
other people, and to direct, and to potentially write 
a memoir, and just, you know, that kind of thing. I 
think I was really aware of the last four years. I’ve done quite a lot of films, and I just wouldn’t want anyone to kind of get sick of my angelic face. You know change up, take a couple of years out and re-emerge as something else, and I’m happy to do that you know.  Q&A with British actor Nick FrostfilmBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    3-24-15-15-1
Housing for Homeless Veterans!
Volunteers of America offers housing for 
homeless veterans or those at risk of becom-ing homeless in a warm and supportive envi-ronment. If you or anyone you know may ben-efit from our program, please contact Woody at 352-642-8313 for more information. 
Two bedrooms with all utilities included!    
3-17-15-7-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294   3-13-15-12-21 BR / 1 BR - $650/month incl. utilitiesOaks Condos - behind mall / Starbucks6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable 1st floor unit. Lots of parking.Easy walk to mall, dining, RTS bus stop.On-site gym, pool, laundry facility.Contact (352) 219-5351 for info.    3-17-12-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-
3901    3-26-15-15-2
HOUSE - 4BR/2BA
Available 8/1. Lawncare, W/D, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. Drive by, see flier. 
$1400/mo. Call 352-256-8370 or 373-1558     
3-12-15-5-2
5 BEDROOM,3 BATH HOME.
WALK TO CLASS!
ASKING $2,850 TOTAL.
CALL JOHN @ 561.866.8234
FOR FURTHER DETAILS.
3-13-15-5-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 
2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    3-17-15-5-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    3-17-15-5-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    3-17-15-5-2
CUSTOM 2BDRM 1BA AVAIL NOW Within 1 1/2 mi UF&Shands Tiled liv rm & kit area Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans Upgraded Bath Like new stainless kit appl W/D Cent H/A Internet/cable avail Owner pays water pest cntrl lawn main security lights Near bus rte Sorry no pets $685/mo. Call 727-423-9463     3-13-15-2-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.UNIVERSITY HOUSE 2BR/2BA APT(for re-let) 5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent in-cludes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $325/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-27-15-20-3
$455/mo. 1BR/1BA currently available (ASAP). Great location Center Point Apts. 1220 NW 12th St. Lease ends on July 31st. Text or call 904-662-9065    3-13-15-4-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SCHOLAR’S HAVEN.Grad, post-doc, prof. Contemp. furn. house in woods 1 mi. north of UF. W/D, piano, wifi, prkg. $425+util.262-3957. or mardavis03@yahoo.com    3-13-15-5-4
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
ROOMMATE NEEDED Close to campus in 2BR/2.5BA duplex. Near bus stop. $400/mo + utils & deposit. Available now. Share with male student. Call 904-608-7609    3-18-15-5-4
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
12, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales andScooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALALL VEHICLES 20143630 N MAIN STwww.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers                352-771-61913-31-15-14-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 3-20-14-73-13 
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with
a love for children to staff its
summer camp program.
Positions in the camp are available in our
elementary school age day camps and
some half-day specialty camp programs.
Summer Dates are June 8-July 24 and
day camp employees
must be available for all dates.
For a complete listing of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interested applicants should submit a
resume to Buffy McTureous via e-mail at
bmctuerous@oakhall.org by March 13th.
Interview information regarding
group interview on March 14th
will be sent out upon receipt.
3-13-15-10-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Psychological assistant psychometrician
wanted for private practice.
Will require
1-2 months unpaid training to qualify
for 36-40 hour position at 10.50 per hour
minimum 1 year commitment. perfect for
someone wanting experience b4 grad 
school. Send vita to info@cpancf.com
3-16-15-7-14
ACCOUNTING ASSISTANTS
We are looking for accounting graduates or 4th or 5th year accounting students who have or are taking tax/audit. Earn while you learn while working with CPA learning mate-rials. Assist with customer support, research, critical reading, technical advising for video learning, special projects, editing and more.
Our employees have a great success rate 
of passing the CPA on the first try. Flexible schedules. Please apply online at www.gleim.com/employment or contact HR @352-375-0772 ext 122.     3-20-15-11-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors
Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Clean/Maint., Drivers. Apply today at 
suncountrysports.com/jobs.html!
3-17-15-7-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – August. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com3-13-5-14
 THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 13
looking for a reliable office/home/apartment 
cleaner with own transportation and valid license/insurance w/ a good background record and drugfree... background checks and drug tests will be ran.... paying $8/hr if interested please call 352-214-0868    3-13-15-5-14
PT Job with UIFT Web Service. Quick learnerWeb Design experience (HTML, CSS)15-20 hrs/week, $15/hr.Assisting Web Developers migrate content into new system.email resume to Kim Standifer, standik@ufl.edu   3-18-7-14
1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing/fit gals/guys for part time driver position.  Strong student or recent graduate pre-ferred. +21 age req'd for insurance. $10 - $15/hr. Email cover letter and resume to gainesvillecentral@1800gotjunk.com    3-17-15-5-14DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part time wanted
Please apply in person
5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary experience ideal      3-31-15-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
Zhang's Car Repair 352-665-0119Brakes/Drivetrain /Power steering &suspension /Engine/electrical/Fuel Excellent experience & lower pricewww.zhangscar.com               3-13-15-2-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Shop Local. Shop SmallSmall Business Craft ShowMarch 14, 2015; 10 am to 3 pmCymply Fresh/Cymple Room5408 NW 8th Avenue        3-13-13-20
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
"Guinea Keets and chicks for sale! Keets 
starting at $3.70, as low as $1.70, chicks as low as $1.10. 717-340-1034 or www.ChickensDirect.NET"    3-13-10-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015
THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Poll question
How far will the UF men’s basketball team go in the 
NCAA Tournament? Vote online at alligatorSports.org.Diving results
UF divers Zach Hernandez and Khalia Warner both qualified to compete on the platform dive at the NCAA Championships. Hernandez finished eighth at the NCAA regional Wednesday to qualify. Warner finished third.Billy Donovan and UF men’s basketball begin SEC Tournament play today. For updates, stay tuned to alligatorSports.JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Amanda Butler isn’t leaving 
Gainesville anytime soon.
The UF women’s basketball head 
coach signed a two-year contract exten-
sion on Wednesday, securing her job through the 2019 season.
The Gators finished 
the 2014-15 season with a 13-17 record — the program’s worst 
season-ending mark since Butler took over the program in 2007.
It also marked the 
first time UF did not reach either the NCAA 
Tournament or the Women’s National Invitation Tournament since the 2006-07 season — the year before Butler was hired.
“Clearly, the results of last season 
were not what anyone, including Coach Butler, had hoped,” UF athletics director Jeremy Foley said in a release. “That said, I continue to strongly feel that Amanda is the right person to get Florida women’s basketball to be a contender in this league 
and nationally. She’s a Gator and will 
keep working tirelessly to elevate this program.”
In eight years with Butler at the helm, 
the UF women’s basketball program has a 153-112 record and has not advanced fur-ther than the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
Florida has also never won a South-
eastern Conference title under Butler, who played her four-year collegiate ca-reer at UF from 1990-1994.
“Last season was disappointing for 
me and Gator Nation,” Butler said in a re-lease. “Gator Nation deserves excellence - the very best coaching, student-athletes and results. We will do whatever is neces-sary to make Florida Women’s Basketball 
a cornerstone of pride for our University 
of Florida. I am very excited about what the future holds for our program.”IAN COHEN
Alligator Staff Writer @icohenb
With strong play from its reliev-
ers and help from several early inning runs, Florida earned its second win against Fairfield Wednesday night.
The No. 2 Gators (16-2) extended 
their winning streak to a season-high six games in its 6-1 win over the Stags (0-5).
Florida opened scoring in the third 
inning, when Dalton Guthrie doubled down the left-field line, sending Logan Browning home from third base. 
Richie Martin followed Guthrie’s 
lead with an RBI double to right-cen-
ter field, scoring Guthrie, who led the 
team with three hits and an RBI.
“I think we had a good approach 
today,” Guthrie said. “We got some knocks and stringed some good in-nings together.”
The Gators increased their lead to 
3-0 in the fourth when Mike Rivera sent JJ Schwarz home from first after a 
double to deep left-center field. 
Soon after, Rivera was caught in a 
rundown between third and home but 
eventually scored after a throwing er-ror from Fairfield’s second baseman.The Stags put up their lone run in 
the seventh inning on a RBI single to center field.  But with no outs and a runner at third, right-hander Danny Young retired the side.
Ryan Larson increased Florida’s 
lead to five with a two-run RBI single in the eighth.
In his first career start, right-hander 
Alex Faedo gave up two hits, no runs and struck out five batters in three in-nings. The freshman was limited to 52 pitches.
“(Faedo) was really crisp and 
sharp, and that’s what we’ve been kind of used to seeing,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. 
“...He’s got a chance to be a Friday 
night guy in this league, and those guys don’t come around very often.”
Right-hander Mike Vinson relieved 
Faedo to start the fourth, and gave up just one hit in three innings.
Danny Young, Brett Morales and 
Bobby Poyner also made appearances on the mound for the Gators, allowing a combined three hits and one run.
Florida will open Southeastern Con-
ference play with a three game series against Tennessee beginning on Friday. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Dalton Guthrie swings at a pitch during Florida’s 8-7 win against Fairfield on Tuesday at McK -
ethan Stadium. On Wednesday, Guthrie opened scoring in the Gators’ 6-1 win over the Stags.
Florida baseball defeats Fairfield, shifts focus to SEC play
 THREE OF THE 16 ATHLETES IN 
THE 400-METER DASH ARE FROM UF.
KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator Writer @KBrut13
 Heading into this weekend’s NCAA 
Indoor Championships, the No. 1/2 Flor-
ida men’s and women’s 
track and field teams will feature 22 athletes at the meet, including a wide 
array of jumpers, throwers and distance runners.
While senior jumper Marquis Dendy 
has been the center of attention all season — winning the Southeastern Conference title in the triple jump and long jump en route to the Cliff Harper High Point Tro-phy — the trio of Najee Glass, Arman Hall  and Nick Uruburu will look to make its presence known at the national meet.
Led by Glass, who holds the NCAA’s 
top time in the men’s 400-meter sprint, the three will all be part of the 16-athlete field at the NCAA Championships.
With the addition of Hugh Graham Jr., the trio also teamed up during the regular season to mark the third-best time in the 4x400 relay in the country.
Senior Dedric Dukes will replace Gra-
ham in the relay this weekend at the Ran-dal Tyson Track Center.
Last season’s national indoor 400-meter 
sprint included each of Florida’s qualifiers from this season aside from Uruburu.
However, the addition of Uruburu, 
a sophomore from Jacksonville,  to this year’s field makes all the difference for UF. 
He shed eight-tenths of a second off his 
freshman personal-best with a 46.31 at the SEC Indoor Championships, clinching a tie for the 14th-best time in the country.
“He’s just been continuing to make me 
proud. … He’s staying with me, (Arman) and Hugh at practice, he’s not slacking off,” Glass said. “His time is progressive-ly coming down, nothing’s going to stop him. ... He shows out and does his job.”
Coach Mike Holloway looks at having 
three athletes in the 16-athlete 400 event as a mental plus for his squad. 
“It’s an advantage because you have 
people there in the event to support you,” Holloway said.Gators sprinters readying 
for NCAA Championships
Name
Butler receives contract extension through 2019WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
UF TrackThe Gators swept the series16, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2015
