By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
“We had a date — or what I 
thought was a date,” Diamond 
Delancy said.
Instead, she wound up being 
raped in a stairwell.
She was one of three students 
to share a personal story of sex-ual assault during Student Gov-ernment’s ﬁ  rst Survivors Speak Out Panel on Thursday night. As part of Sexual Assault Aware-ness Week, the students spoke of their experiences to educate others on the prominence of sex-ual assault.
Delancy said people asked 
her why she didn’t run.
“In the point, you really don’t 
know what you’re going to do,” 
the UF public relations and 
women’s studies senior said.
She is now applying to the 
Peace Corps, where she would be abroad for 27 months, the 20-year-old said.
“It’s really hard to say that 
you can’t do something because someone took that away from you,” she said.
UF public relations senior Hi-
ram Martinez-Cabrera also knew his assaulter. From the time he was 6 to 14, his stepfather abused him.
His stepfather provided the 
family with ﬁ  nancial security, the 21-year-old said.
“I really saw this person as 
someone who provided some-thing I never had,” he said.
Over the years, it went from 
kissing to sex, he said.
“I woke up, I went to school, We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 34 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015
Florida soccer looks to alleviate 
road woes against Tennessee
Read the full story online at
 www.alligator.org/sports
Panera to sell pink ribbon bagels
It’s to raise money for cancer research, pg. 5
A marriage of art and science
3-D printed jewelry was showcased, pg. 9Left Shark Potential
Why is there a shark here? See the photo, pg. 3
CAMPUS
By Sara Perlman and Ansley Pentz
Alligator Writers
UF will soon make it easier for incoming freshmen 
to apply to college.
Starting in January 2016, UF will launch a digital 
platform for high school freshmen, sophomores and 
juniors to store their transcripts, volunteer hours and test scores.
This change in the application process is a result of 
UF recently joining the Coalition for Access, Affordabil-ity and Success, UF spokesman Steve Orlando said.
This will help ease the stressful and rushed appli-
cation process, especially for underprivileged students, Orlando said.
First-generation students don’t always know how 
to ﬁ  nance college, and the coalition will work to help solve this, too, said Zina Evans, UF’s vice president for enrollment management.
UF will show low-income students how much col-
lege costs and what ﬁ  nancial aid is available to them, Orlando said.
“I think the goal is to empower students from un-
derprivileged backgrounds to apply to schools that are 
likely to give considerable ﬁ  nancial support and invest 
in their academic success,” he said.
UF biology sophomore Shiela Chancoco said she 
thought her application went smoothly, but she applied with UF’s self-reported transcript system.
When the 20-year-old applied, she said she had to 
type her subjects and grades from cryptic transcripts.
Chancoco said she hopes UF’s new system is easier 
to navigate. UF is working on admission process Sexual assault survivors speak upBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Carol Greenlee’s father wasn’t there 
when she was born.
The only sign of his presence in her 
life for the next 10 birthdays were gifts wrapped in brown paper bags and cards 
signed from prison.
Most years, it was a dress purchased 
from a catalog. But one year, it was a 
jewelry box painstakingly pieced together from matchsticks he found on the prison ground.“He never did miss a 
birthday,” Carol, now 65, 
said.
Months after her 11th 
birthday, she visited her father in Tennessee, where he was on parole.
But despite the numer-
ous birthdays they would celebrate after his re-
lease, nothing would bring back his years spent in prison.
Sixty-ﬁ  ve years later, his name is still 
one of four that has yet to be cleared.UF senior Joshua Venkataraman wants 
to make sure the years Greenlee lost were not in vain.      
“There’s no use in ignoring the past,” 
the 21-year-old said. “The past deﬁ  nes the way that we address the future.”
      
Charles Greenlee was 16 when he 
learned his girlfriend was expecting Carol.
At 17, he left Alachua to travel with his 
friend, Ernest Thomas, to ﬁ  nd a job picking 
citrus to provide for his unborn daughter.
Once the pair arrived in Thomas’ home-
town in Groveland, Thomas went to his 
mother’s house. Greenlee asked Thomas 
for a clean shirt. He waited nearby for Thomas to return, left with Thomas’s old 
pistol for protection from crocodiles.
The two would never meet again.A night watchman saw Greenlee walk-
ing and approached him. When Greenlee turned to walk away, the pistol stuck out of his back pocket.
He was arrested and taken to jail, prom-
ised a release in the morning.
He fell asleep in a cell but would wake 
up on his way to court, one of three black boys charged with the rape of a white girl, Norma Padgett.
Greenlee, Walter Irvin, Samuel Shepard 
and Thomas — the latter of whom would UF student ﬁ  ghts for justice for accused rapists
 Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Speaking Out 
Andres Estellar (center), a 20-year-old UF industrial systems engineer-
ing sophomore, protests with his sign reading, “Consent is hot / assault is not, ” during the “Dress Does Not Mean Yes” walk on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday. For a story and more photos, see page 8. 
Venkataraman
SEE GROVELAND,  PAGE 4
SEE ASSULT,  PAGE 4
“I think the goal is to empower students from 
underprivileged backgrounds to apply to 
schools that are likely to give considerable 
inancial support and invest in their academic 
success.” 
Steve Orlando
UF spokesmanHe created a petition for the causeSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub -
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al -
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As -
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.  WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Defy the Norm’ with Pride
Pride Awareness Month at UF is 
the largest student-led celebration 
of the LGBTQ+ community. This 
year, the theme is defiance. Join 
the celebration as the organization 
will “Defy the Norm” and make its 
stories count. Visit facebook.com/
prideawarenessmonth and apply 
today. Applications close Monday 
at 11:59 p.m.
The Mask You Live In
Is American masculinity harm -
ing our boys, men and society 
at large? As part of October’s 
So Many Ways events, STRIVE 
(Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal 
Violence Education) at GatorWell 
is screening and discussing the 
Representation Project’s docu -
mentary “The Mask You Live 
In.”  The screening and discussion 
will be in Leigh Hall, Room 207, 
on Wednesday from 7:30 p.m. to 
10:30 p.m. For more information, 
please call Rita Lawrence at 352-
273-4452 or go to the Strive UF 
Facebook page.
GLAM Craft Show accepting appli -
cations
Do you make stuff? GLAM is look -
ing for makers who want to be a part of the GLAM Craft Show on 
Dec. 6. This year, the show is 
moving to downtown Gainesville. 
Prospective vendors should apply 
online by Oct.  23 at glamcrafts -
how.com/apply.
She’s the First
She’s the First is hosting its first 
#DayOfTheGirlUF summit on 
Sunday from 9 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. 
in celebration of International Day 
of the Girl Child. This event will be 
a half-day conference of speakers, 
panels and workshops. The goal is 
to bring awareness to the commu -
nity about current issues regarding 
women, health, careers, education 
and more. For more details, visit 
dayofthegirluf.splashthat.com.
Mid-Autumn Festival show
UF’s Chinese American Student 
Association and Chinese Student 
Association are hosting a Mid-
Autumn Festival show on 
Saturday in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom. There will be free food 
and a variety of performances 
featuring individuals from UF 
and the Gainesville community. 
The show will also feature cul -
tural activities and free raffles. The 
show, “Coming Home: A Journey 
Through China,” will incorporate 
these themes through a compel -ling narrative woven between per -
formances. The show is free and 
for all ages. Doors open at 6 p.m., 
and the show starts at 6:30 p.m. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send 
an email with “What’s Happening” 
in the subject line to afigueroa@
alligator.org. To ensure publica -
tion in the next day’s newspaper, 
please submit the event before 5 
p.m. Please model your submis -
sions after above events, and 
keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not 
appear in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
In the story “Hooked on Hookah” 
the UF linguistics and East Asian 
languages and literatures ju -
nior’s name is Jacob Rieker, and 
the 23-year-old’s name is Taylor 
Ratcliff. The Alligator reported 
otherwise. 2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 34
HIGH  84° LOW  68°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor  Alyssa Fisher, afisher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print  Ariana Figueroa, afigueroa@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online  Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org    
 Metro Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor  Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor   Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor   Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org    
 Editorial Board  Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor  Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson @alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs  Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors  T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Kristine  
  Janata , Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, Michael  
  Smith Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives  T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks  Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
ABOUT 50 STUDENTS AND 
20 CAMPUS DIPLOMATS 
ATTENDED.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF international students ex-
changed numbers and munched on 
chocolate chip cookies and Oreos in the Hub on Thursday night.
The Campus Diplomats hosted 
the ﬁ  rst Gatornational Language and Culture Fair, inviting students from all over the world to The Gator Na-tion, said Campus Diplomat Mokia Laisin, who planned the event. 
The UF international studies and 
business senior said he wanted the Campus Diplomats program to offer more chances for international stu-
dents to meet the greater UF com-
munity.
“We tried to reach out to all the 
students, and international students needed it the most,” the 21-year-old said. 
About 50 students and 20 Cam-
pus Diplomats attended, Laisin said. Student representatives from the UF French and German clubs also came.
Tim Klopries, a 24-year-old ex-
change student from Germany, 
went with his mentor from UF Navi-
Gators, which gives international students classmate partners to help them transition. 
Klopries, a UF international busi-
ness master’s student, said students have to get out of their comfort zones.
“If you’re a foreigner that comes 
here, the natural thing that happens is that you tend to hang out with other foreigners,” he said.
Nkanyezi Gumpo, an interna-
tional freshman from Zimbabwe, at-tended the event and said she was also looking to meet American stu-dents. “It’s hard to make friends with 
American students because they al-ready have their own community,” the 20-year-old food and resource economics student said. 
Campus Diplomats encouraged students to play a game where they walked around asking for selﬁ  es and learning phrases in other languages. 
Campus Diplomat Ronnie So-
cash, 20, said the event focused on social interaction.
“We want them to be as comfort-
able as possible,” the UF public rela-tions junior said. 
Socash helped Laisin organize 
the event. He said he interviewed Laisin while Laisin was applying for Campus Diplomats. That’s when Laisin ﬁ  rst pitched the idea.
“Here we are eight months later, 
and we’re doing it,” Socash said.
The event will hopefully be in 
a larger space in the Spring, Laisin 
said.  
UF botany freshman Kristina Za-
karkaite, 18, said she liked the event 
because it was inviting. She grew up in St. Petersburg, Florida, but her parents immigrated from Lithuania. 
“I wanted to come meet other 
Lithuanians,” she said.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
STATE
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TALLAHASSEE — Respond-
ing to the outcry against Confed-erate symbols, the Florida Senate is moving ahead with plans to re-move the Confederate battle ﬂ  ag 
from the chamber’s ofﬁ  cial seal.
A Senate panel voted unani-
mously Thursday to revise the 
seal that now contains the battle ﬂ  ag along with four other ﬂ  ags that have ﬂ  own in Florida. The entire Senate is expected to vote on the change during the annual session that starts in January.
Arthenia Joyner, a black state 
senator from Tampa, asked the chamber to consider the change shortly after Dylann Roof was ac-cused of killing nine black people in a church in Charleston, South Carolina. Roof appeared in pho-tos with the Confederate ﬂ  ag.
“The Confederate ﬂ  ag repre-
sents a painful period in our his-tory,” Joyner said. “I thought in light of the blood that was shed in South Carolina and the fact this is reminiscent of a time that still invokes a lot of pain in a lot 
of people, especially black peo-
ple, it was time for us to take the initial step of removing the Con-federate ﬂ  ag from the seal.”
It will take a two-thirds vote 
to approve the change, which calls for replacing the Confeder-ate battle ﬂ  ag with the current Florida state ﬂ  ag. The other ﬂ  ags 
in the seal include the United 
States ﬂ  ag, as well as historical ﬂ  ags of France, Spain and Great Britain.FL Senate likely to 
remove ﬂ  ag from seal
John Hursh / Alligator Staff
Ocean Outreach
Lizzie Wetzel, a 21-year-old UF zoology senior, follows people on the Plaza of the Americas dressed as 
a shark on Thursday during the UF Marine Biology Club’s Shark Week event. Wetzel, the club’s secre-tary, tried to engage the students in a giant game of sharks and minnows to promote the club.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Maria A. B. Gama (left), a 22-year-old biochemistry senior, and Nurul Azma Ahmad T armizi, a 21-year-old food science and human nutrition junior, share a laugh at the Gatornational Language and Culture Fair at the Hub on Thursday. 
Campus Diplomats host event for students share to cultures Sexual assault survivors 
want a support group at UF4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
A bell rang out over Liberty Pond.
As the note died away Thursday, 
the voices of a crowd of 50 or so San-ta Fe College students, faculty and staff fell silent. The silence, broken 
only by the hum of buses and cam-
era shutters, lasted for two minutes in memory of those killed in a shoot-ing at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon, last week.
After two minutes, the bell rang 
again. Heads rose, and some looked to Santa Fe President Jackson Sasser.
He shook his head, saying noth-
ing, and walked away. The crowd did the same.
Shortly after, Sasser fought back 
tears, choking up as he told report-ers why he decided to hold the cer-emony.
“Santa Fe College is about stand-
ing, certainly, with the families of these students, the students at Umpqua, the faculty and the staff,” Sasser said. “There’s really nothing that we can do other than just stand with them in spirit during this time.”
Santa Fe also sent a 6-foot indig-
enous tree to the college as a sym-bol of Santa Fe’s commitment to 
Umpqua and its journey of healing, 
Sasser said.In the aftermath of the shooting, 
Santa Fe Sen. Benjamin Myers pro-posed a resolution during Wednes-
day’s Senate meeting which called 
for Santa Fe to support bills in the state legislature that would allow concealed carry on Florida college campuses.
Myers said he plans to talk with 
Sasser and Santa Fe’s police chief about concealed carry, both of whom oppose such legislation.
“I am opposed to guns on cam-
pus with all the college and universi-ty presidents in the state of Florida,” Sasser said. “That remains my posi-tion regarding guns on campus.”
Joel Miller, who said he decided 
to attend the ceremony to show his support of Umpqua Community Col-lege, also opposes concealed carry on campus.
Instead, the 29-year-old network 
administration sophomore suggested a “special certificate” for those who want to carry a weapon on campus.
“Not everybody needs a gun,” he 
said.
Santa Fe holds ceremony for Umpqua shooting victims
It sent a tree to the college
CAMPUS
By John Avery Guyton
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students are taking a stand for their 
health — by walking.
About 500 people will fill the Stephen 
C. O’Connell Center at 8 a.m. Saturday, 
participating in “Walk to Eliminate Health Disparities: Walking to Promote a Healthy Weight,” said Ada Ukonu, the program’s 
community education, research and out-
reach coordinator.
The UF Health Disparities Research 
and Intervention Program hasn’t hosted the walk since 2011 because there wasn’t 
adequate funding or available staff, the 
27-year-old said. But this year, it was able to gather more financial sponsors and vol-unteers.
As people walk the 5K around the 
O’Connell Center, they will learn to be physically active, a key component of maintaining a healthy weight, Ukonu said.
“I think there is increasing awareness of 
health issues, such as obesity, that affects 
individuals in Florida,” she said.
UF health science junior Anthony Black 
said he hopes to go to the walk.
“This is an issue that affects a majority 
of Americans,” the 20-year-old said.
He said the walk will bring people to-
gether for a healthy cause.
But he said he also thinks UF could do 
more to promote healthy lifestyles, like 
keeping the dining halls open longer. The 
only places open late at night are usually 
unhealthy options, he said.
“There has been a decline in our na-
tion’s health,” Black said.UF students walk to be healthy
“This is an issue that affects a 
majority of Americans.”
Anthony Black 
UF health science juniorI was one type of Hiram,” he said.
At night, he was someone else, he said.
“One time, he would record it; other 
times, he would have friends there,” he said.
In eighth grade, he decided to tell 
someone, he said.
“My friend gave me three days to call 
the cops,” he said.
When he showed up to school on March 
26, 2008, he realized all of his teachers knew. When his mom came to pick him up, his stepfather was with her.
“He was handcuffed on the spot,” he 
said.
That day, he told his mom what had 
been going on the past eight years, he said. Afterward, it was a year of court cases.Because of his experiences, he said he 
isn’t confident in his queer identity.
Delancy said UF makes it the survivor’s 
job to find resources.
“UF also has a stance kind of that, ‘we 
can help you with this if it happens here,’” she said. “I still break down. I still have 
panic attacks.”
Martinez-Cabrera said UF should have 
a sexual-assault support group.
Annie Carper, a victim advocate for 
University Police, said it’s important for 
students to be supportive of survivors.
“UF is not perfect — it’s not,” she said. 
“Unfortunately, it’s real and it happens.”
Paul Andrews Jr., a former UF Health-
Street employee, said listening to the stu-dents speak was powerful.
“It was very heavy,” the 24-year-old 
said. “A lot of times I ended up having to focus on the floor.”ASSAULT,  from pg 1
be shot by a sheriff’s posse be-fore trial — became the Grove-land Four, three of whom were convicted of rape by an all-white jury.
Irvin and Shepard faced the 
electric chair but were shot by the local sheriff who claimed they tried to escape.
Greenlee, just 17, faced life in 
prison, a sentence overturned af-ter the publication of  “Devil in the Grove: Thurgood Marshall, the Groveland Boys, and the 
Dawn of a New America,” a book 
that dissected the climate of rac-ism in Groveland, the boys’ lack of defense, and the manufactur-ing and lack of evidence in the case.
This was a story Greenlee told 
Carol on New Year’s Day when she was in her early 30’s, a story 
she now re-tells in the hopes of 
clearing her father’s name.
“I felt free,” she said after he 
told her. “It felt like nothing sepa-rated us.”
•   •   •
Last Fall, Venkataraman, a tele-
communication student, learned about the Groveland Four in an American history class.A few months later, he and a 
friend were traveling from Orlan-
do to Gainesville when Venkatara-
man noticed a road sign.
Sitting in the passenger seat, he 
could make something out from the green-tinged metal: “Grove-land.”
“It just made me think,” Ven-
kataraman said.
At first, the then-junior con-
templated creating a documenta-ry. But, he said, he felt a petition would have a bigger impact.
Before he did anything with the 
petition, he reached out to Carol, the oldest of the Greenlee children. While she has three younger half-brothers, she said she’s the only one really affected by the story.
“They always had him,” she 
said. “And I didn’t.”
When Venkataraman contacted 
Greenlee with the idea of creat-ing the petition, she was initially hesitant. Her own efforts at clear-ing her father’s record had proven unsuccessful despite decades of work.
“I just tried to explain where I 
was coming from, why I wanted to help and how it would help,” Venkataraman said.
“She said... ‘We need all the 
help we can get.’”
•   •   •Working with Carol, Venkata-
raman organized a petition in March to exonerate the Groveland Four.
The petition, directed toward 
Florida Gov. Rick Scott, has amassed more than 3,100 online signatures from across the coun-try.
Jennifer Zedalis, a criminal 
defense attorney and UF law pro-fessor, said the racism of the Jim Crow South spread into the Grove-land case, resulting in a heavily bi-ased, unjust trial. The rights of the men involved were violated, she 
added, and a government exonera-
tion would acknowledge that fact.
“It would be a symbolic ges-
ture,” Zedalis said. “What hap-pened to these young men is out-rageous.”For Carol, there’s nothing more 
important than trying to clear the cloud over her life.
“And I will go to my grave try-
ing to exonerate my father,” she 
said.
He was unjustly convicted, she 
said, but Florida’s government 
doesn’t seem to care that much.
“Why have a system at all if it 
doesn’t matter?” she said. “Why advocate innocence when you don’t respect the innocent — and you respect the guilty?”
•   •   •
Carol’s father won’t know of 
any exoneration, if and when it happens.
In 2012, Charles Greenlee — 
the last remaining survivor of the 
group — died.
Venkataraman said he has a 
meeting planned next week with 
Florida Sen. Geraldine Thompson, who this year proposed a failed bill aiming to exonerate the Grove-land Four and issue a formal apol-
ogy to their families.
She is planning to introduce a 
similar bill again next year.
As for Greenlee, an exonera-
tion would ease the pain of a story 
never easy to tell.
“And one day,” she said, “the 
scars will be healed.”GROVELAND,  from pg 1Petition directed toward Gov. Scott has more than 3,000 signatures
Courtesy to Alligator
(From left) Walter Irvin, Charles Greenlee and Samuel Shepherd stand 
in a jail after being accused of rape in Lake County, Florida, in 1949. 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local man early Thurs-
day morning after he reportedly tried to enter several 
apartments armed with a gun.
At about 2:55 a.m. Thursday, Robert L. Robinson, 
29, knocked on the door of a College Park apartment, 
according to a police report.
The resident, a UF history junior, said he stopped 
washing dishes and looked through the door’s peep-
hole. He said the door was unlocked, but he was afraid to touch it and make a noise.
The resident wished to remain anonymous because 
he feared retaliation.
At first, he said he thought Robinson was drunk 
and needed help, but he then suspected the worst and 
searched for his only weapon: a broken microphone 
stand.
Robinson eventually left and, looking back, the resi-
dent said the situation sunk in.
“I had 4 inches of wood between some dude with a 
gun,” he said.
At about 3 a.m., police responded to a call about 
someone checking windows and twisting door handles, GPD spokesman Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
An officer walked outside with the resident and they noticed Robinson approaching them from behind.
“We both whirled around and it was the guy,” the 
resident said.
They were a car’s length away until another officer 
soon arrived and took hold of Robinson, he said.
An officer felt a gun handle while searching for 
weapons, and Robinson struggled until officers brought 
him to the ground.
“There’s seven cops and you’re 
in between four cop cars, why re-sist?’” the resident said.
Police later found a .22-caliber 
revolver, along with a driver’s li-cense and social security card be-longing to a 41-year-old man, ac-cording to the report.
Robinson said he might need 
the gun to “take care of business” with his wife’s new lover, according to the report.
In 2011, Robinson was released after almost four 
years in jail, which he served for three charges of bur-glary and three charges of grand theft, according to the Florida Department of Corrections’ Offenders Network.
Police arrested Robinson on charges of attempted 
armed burglary, possession of a weapon by a convicted 
felon, fraud, loitering and resisting an officer.
Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail 
where, as of press time, he remains without bond.Man arrested, attempted burglary
Robinson
IT’S TO RAISE MONEY FOR 
CANCER RESEARCH.
By Jessica Morales
Alligator Contributing Writer
Laura Winefordner doesn’t like bagels, but she 
will purchase one from Panera Bread today.
Winefordner will be buying a pink-ribbon bagel, 
a cherry vanilla-flavored bagel in the shape of a rib-
bon, as part of Panera Goes Pink Friday. All proceeds from the bagels, which will cost $1.34, will go to the 
UF Health Cancer Center to support women’s cancer 
research. 
“I think it’s very intriguing, and I’m glad they 
went through the trouble,” Winefordner said. 
Rachel Edwards, the general manager of Panera 
on Archer Road, said the store ordered 2,000 of the bagels, which aren’t normally sold, for about $1,200.
The store, which sold the most Pink Ribbon Bagels in the Gainesville and Tampa area last year, has been taking pre-orders for a couple of weeks. This is the fifth year Panera has hosted the event. 
“(The proceeds go) directly to UF, so a lot of peo-
ple like that idea because they work there,” Edwards said.
Jon Graham, the deputy director of operations at 
the UF Health Cancer Center, wrote in an email that the center is grateful for the proceeds Panera is col-lecting.
“We hope everyone will enjoy a Panera bagel on 
Friday knowing that women’s cancer research will continue with their support,” he said. 
Aretha Boakye-Donkor, a 20-year-old UF health 
science major, said she thinks the event is going to-
ward a great cause, particularly breast cancer. 
“Breast cancer affects a lot of women, and it af-
fects women indiscriminately regardless of race, 
class, gender, all of that stuff,” she said. “I think that because a lot of people do go to Panera, it’s a great way to get the news out there about breast cancer.”Panera to sell pink ribbon bagelsNatalia Piferrer / Alligator
SHRED IT, DUDE
Jonathan Tiongco, a 20-year-old UF biology junior, balances on an 
Indo board on Turlington Plaza on Thursday. Tiongco, the vice presi-dent of UF’s wakeboarding team, promoted “WakeFest: the Sequel, ” which will take place at Lake Wauburg’s south shore on Saturday.
CAMPUS
By Casey Coffey
Alligator Contributing Writer
“The X Factor” is coming to 
UF’s campus.
Hispanic Heritage Month will 
host the first-ever X-factor talent 
show at 7:30 p.m. on Friday in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Natalie Pedota, the director of HHM’s X-Factor, said the orga-
nization is partnering with Ga-
torNights to attract a wider and more diverse audience. The event is free and open to the public.
While HHM will celebrate 
Hispanic heritage, the UF hospi-tality management senior said it will also “shine the light on other communities.”
“One thing that I’ve tried to 
strive for this year that is differ-ent from other years is to truly make it a multicultural event,“ 
the 22-year-old said.
There will be performances 
spanning from group step dances 
to solo songs, including shows 
from Sabor Latino, Anomaly 
Dance Crew, Explosive Steppers and Tone Def, Pedota said.
All of the acts are competing 
for cash prizes and trophies, said Shania Stephens, the event’s as-sistant director.
“People will definitely be sur-
prised at who you see at the tal-
ent show and the amount of tal-
ent at UF,” the UF biology and psychology sophomore said.
Stephens, 19, said HHM found 
contestants who deeply cared about the performing arts.
“Now I think it’s time for UF 
to make them famous,” she said.
The term “X-factor” is diverse 
and applies to everyone, from steppers to singers, Stephens said.
“There is not one X-factor, and 
we wanted to showcase that,” she said.Hispanic Heritage 
Month brings ‘X Factor’By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
During a Regional Utilities Com-
mittee meeting Thursday, city of-
ficials finalized a city ordinance to create a Gainesville Regional Utili-ties advisory board.
City commissioners will vote to 
approve the ordinance at 6 p.m. Monday at a General Policy Com-mittee meeting. 
If approved by city commission-
ers, the board would advise GRU and consist of two city commission-ers, one county commissioner “and a number of different people that 
would be advisers that have exper-
tise,” City Commissioner Harvey Budd said.The ordinance offers an alterna-
tive to Florida State Rep. Keith Per-ry’s bill proposing the formation of an oversight board with control of and responsibility over GRU.
The oversight board would con-
sist of five members appointed by a majority vote by the City Com-mission and who meet several cri-teria, including “recognized ability 
of good business judgment” and 
the ability to “perform their official duties to the best interest of the citi-zens,” according to Perry’s bill.
The bill states the board’s pow-
ers and duties would not be less than those currently of the city com-mission over GRU. All the city com-missioners at the meeting criticized 
the bill, expressing concern over 
control and leadership of GRU fall-ing out of the commission’s hands.
“(The board) would take over 
(GRU),” Budd said
“Keith Perry’s bill would turn 
over the autonomy of GRU to the legislature in Tallahassee, which means that once they get it, once they do what they want to do with it legislatively, we’ll never get it back,” City Commissioner Charles Goston said. “We’ll be at the behest 
of them… There’s too many disad-
vantages to the bill.”
With faith in GRU’s new general 
manager, Ed Bielarski, Goston said the city doesn’t “need anything oth-er than an advisory board.”
Goston said he will invite Flor-
ida State Rep. Clovis Watson, Jr. to Monday’s meeting “so he can 
explain explicitly and articulate the 
disadvantages of letting the legisla-ture even get involved in city busi-ness. This should be home rule no matter what.”City officials finalize GRU ordinance
“People will definitely be 
surprised at who you see 
at the talent show and the 
amount of talent at UF.”
Shania Stephens
assistant directorIt’s an advisory boardThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Well-known ‘subversive’ artist really isn’t
I’ve got a bone to pick.
To be speciﬁ  c, I’m tired of having to 
pretend Banksy is anything other than the 
poster child of the infuriatingly lazy self-indulgence that passes for art, social criti-
cism and political activism in today’s scene.
Banksy is an elusive street artist who start-
ed in London but whose work can be found stenciled onto walls of cities around the globe from Brooklyn to the Gaza Strip. Since the ex-plosive response to his documentary, “Exit Through the Gift Shop,” Banksy has become world famous. His work usually serves as commentary on social and political is-sues of the day, ranging from rampant consumerism to 
National Security Agency surveillance.
All of this hinges on the “mystery” of his identity. 
“Banksy,” after all, is merely a nom de plume, which he 
and his fans claim exists to shield him from imprison-ment — grafﬁ  ti is, after all, illegal — but is quite clearly a marketing ploy meant to enhance the #brand of the world’s most insufferable pop artist.
See, the thing is, Banksy is actually bullshit. Techni-
cally speaking, his work looks good, which would be ﬁ  ne 
if the bar for good art were set at “realistic-looking.” But 
realism fell out of vogue around the 1880s. Art has to do more than look pretty; it should say something.
Unfortunately, Banksy’s statements are the art equiv-
alent of two-, maybe three-word sentences. “Consumer-ism is bad.” Not that I disagree with Banksy’s messages; it’s just that his works are so lazy and obvious that they are artistically and politically pointless. They’re only vaguely anti-consumerist and anti-authoritarian, com-
pletely lacking any amount of substance that would chal-
lenge the viewer to, I don’t know, actually think about these things. They’re anti-war and anti-corporate in the same way the Democratic Party is: not really.
Every Banksy piece functions in essentially the same 
way. He takes a child or a cultural icon (for example, Dorothy from “The Wizard of Oz”) and subjects that ﬁ  g-ure to harassment or exploitation by either the police or by Ronald McDonald and Mickey Mouse at the same time. From this ham-ﬁ  sted juxtaposition, Banksy produces commentary. His technique is just as subtle as dressing Colonel Sanders in an SS uniform, and I’m genuinely shocked he hasn’t done this by now.
His most famous work to date has been 
“Dismaland,” a seaside parody of theme parks complete with a Disney castle (but spooky!) and ridable dolphins situated over BP oil drums.
Interested? You can purchase your very own collec-
tion of his low-hanging fruits at your local Urban Outﬁ  t-ters for a reasonable $22.95.
I don’t know what’s more infuriating about Banksy — 
the fact that he thinks of himself as a genius/great guy, or the ﬂ  ocks of rubes who trample over each other for a chance to slop up this garbage.
An example of Banksy’s real-world activism: He’s dis-
mantling “Dismaland” and shipping the used timber to Calais for refugees to build shelters. He’s sending them his trash. It’s like he’s saying, “Here, build yourselves some lean-tos with this stuff I no longer need.”
But for all that, I really wouldn’t mind him all that 
much if it weren’t for the massive number of liberal mil-lennials who hold him up as the ﬁ  nest expression of their beliefs. If Banksy is an icon of anti-establishment poli-tics, then I’m Rosa goddamn Luxemburg.
That’s what really irks me about him, I guess; the 
warm reception his brand of pre-chewed art has in our generation epitomizes the shallowness of our politics. For us, the political process is an opportunity for anoth-er participation trophy. We get to look at an art piece 
and feel good about ourselves for thinking McDonald’s 
is problematic, even though we’ll consume it later this week. In the meantime, the Trans-Paciﬁ  c Partnership gets ﬁ  nalized right over our heads with nary a peep of discontent from anybody.
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His column ap-
pears on Fridays.In 1998, DMX asked the nation, “Where my dogs at?” In 
2015, we can’t help but make a similar inquiry: “Where our Gators at?” Before you answer that question, it’s time for this week’s edition of… 
Darts & Laurels
Whenever we read a story that involves a drunken college 
student embarking on a mission for good eats, we generally hope for the best: After all, is there no quest so righteous or so just as trying to acquire the dankest of dank foods long af-ter most restaurants have closed? We wanted to believe Luke 
Gatti, a former student at the University of Connecticut, was 
the hero these troubled times called for — we couldn’t have been more wrong.
On Sunday, Gatti swaggered into a UConn cafeteria with 
a beer in hand, drunkenly demanding he be served, and we quote, “f-----g bacon jalapeño mac and cheese.” While no one in the Alligator ofﬁ  ce has ever had the pleasure of enjoying this dish, we won’t deny it sounds amazing. 
However, the lengths Gatti went to get it, including, but 
not limited to calling cafeteria workers “f-----g idiots,” go be-yond the pale. Gatti was arrested that night and has appar-ently been expelled from the university. For besmirching the good name of drunk eaters, Gatti gets a larger-than-usual 
Dart.
Oh Congress, is there anything you WON’T do to un-
dermine whatever remaining dignity there is in the Capitol building? Around noon Thursday, Kevin McCarthy, the cur-rent House majority leader who had been the frontrunner to 
replace John Boehner as House speaker, withdrew his candi-
dacy. McCarthy cited the ideological divide currently dogging the Republican Party as his reason for removing himself from the race, saying the party needs to “unite behind one leader.”
If one had been paying attention, it was evident McCarthy 
had dropped because he would have most likely suffered a humiliating defeat; like Boehner before him, McCarthy was not “conservative” enough for the party’s pocket of Tea Party hard-liners. 
For doing a better job of destroying themselves than social 
progress and educated voters could ever do, the Republican 
Party gets an elephant-shaped Laurel.
If you’ve been on social media since late Wednesday eve-
ning, there is a solid chance you saw — or at least heard about — a sexually explicit video that came from the ranks of national fraternity Alpha Tau Omega’s chapter at Indiana University. If you know anything about the video, which we would prefer not to discuss in detail, you know why that 
chapter is getting a Dart.
On Thursday, several music news outlets (looking at you, 
“Consequence of Sound”) reported LCD Soundsystem, the post-punk/dance-punk/everything-happening-at-once band that deﬁ  ned much of the sound of the last decade, would be reuniting for festival dates next year. The band dissolved in 2011 after frontman James Murphy broke up the band in what was — if we’re being completely honest — a pretty ob-vious attempt to manufacture the band’s legacy, rather than 
letting it take its natural course.
Although we regret the band’s demise, we’re thankful for 
what it left behind, so the promise of live shows was pretty 
tantalizing. The news of a reunion was promptly shut down by “Entertainment Weekly” and Kris Petersen, a manager at DFA, the band’s label. In one tweet, Petersen curtly ad-dressed the regrettable nature of many music news articles: “it would be great if music writers could write about things that actually happen instead of lcd reunions & grimes + 
frank ocean records.”
For telling it like it is, Petersen gets a Laurel. For toying 
with our emotions, hopes and dreams, CoS and other music 
publications get a Dart.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
While it is still relatively 
early in the primary season, I think I am 
ready to place my bet 
on who will eventu-
ally be the Republican candidate for 2016: John Kasich. You may 
know him from his comments 
about going to a same-sex wed-ding in the ﬁ  rst Republican de-bate, but otherwise he has not made a lot of waves in the Republican race so far.
Perhaps his subtlety and quiet demeanor 
have been missed through the loud ram-blings of anti-establishment candidates such as Trump, Carson and Fiorina. Even though 
the surges in these three candidates’ cam-
paigns should be a concern to establish-ment Republicans, they will not be relevant next November. A campaign, especially for the presidency, is a marathon, not a sprint; 
this is something these three candidates do 
not seem to understand. Also, I don’t think many voters would vote for a candidate who proudly boasts zero government experience 
on a resume.
Compared to his fellow candidates, Ka-
sich is the Hillary Clinton of the Republican 
Party as far as government experience goes. Kasich had a political career in Congress that 
lasted from the early 1980s all the way to the 
2000s. While in Congress, Kasich was chair of the House Budget Committee as well as a member of the House Armed Services Com-
mittee.
Kasich not only has his congressional 
experience to pull from, he is also the cur-
rent governor of Ohio. This brings with it a whole different set of experiences that many 
congressmen and congresswomen have not 
had. Kasich can cite his long career in public service in that he has worked in Congress and served as the governor of a state, the 
closest state-equivalent to a presidential role.  
Kasich’s connection to Ohio also brings 
about certain advantages. A general rule 
of thumb for the election is the decision of Ohio is usually followed by that of the na-
tion. Whoever wins Ohio wins the presiden-
cy, or so the motto has been since the 1960s. Kasich’s governorship there is deﬁ  nitely an advantage; in his re-election cam-paign last year he won by nearly 30 percent against his opponent. 
It is a tantalizing possibility that 
Kasich can utilize his popularity in Ohio to win the presidency.
Kasich’s ability to pivot from a 
conservative stance on a subject to a more moderate one could help him in the general election. 
For instance, during the ﬁ  rst Republican debate he was asked if he would attend a 
same-sex wedding. He replied that he had 
attended a wedding that just so happened to be for a same-sex couple, and we as a people should accept individuals regardless 
of whether we agree with them on certain 
issues. After this, he received applause in a Republican primary debate, something that would have seemed impossible four years earlier. Kasich’s opinion on the issue was 
not a spur-of-the-moment thought: Ever 
since the Obergefell v. Hodges decision he has said the Supreme Court has made the ﬁ  -nal decision, and although he may not agree 
with it, there are other issues that need to 
be talked about. This is a candidate who ac-tually understands how the political process works, a quality that has become increas-ingly rare in this primary season. 
In an election where having the most di-
visive rhetoric allows you to reach the top of the polls, Kasich is not leading in any poll. Instead, he is one of the background candi-
dates who speaks in between Trump’s ego-
tistical ramblings and Carson’s Islamophobic asides. This may prove to be advantageous. Candidates who win Iowa or New Hamp-shire rarely end up winning the candidacy 
of the party: This is something to be mindful 
of if Donald Trump wins the Iowa caucus.
I do not agree with Republicans on most 
things, but Kasich seems to be one of the 
most moderate Republicans in the race. Dur-
ing the next debate, make sure to look out for that quiet Ohio governor, because he might become a household name in a few months.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Thursdays.John Kasich is the dark horse 
candidate of the Republican PartyColumn
Last Saturday, I was called a “cunt.”
I was at the football game, 
shoulder to shoulder with Gator fans in a crowded mosh 
pit of bodies trying to enter the sta-dium. It came after numerous peo-
ple had grabbed my waist, pushed 
on my shoulders and brushed their hands over my body. And then it came: “You c--t! You f-----g bitch.”
I was shocked at the expletive, but I was 
more shocked at the reaction I got for telling my story. I posted about the event in a few UF Facebook groups as a public service an-nouncement.
You see, women are harassed at sporting 
events, both physically and verbally. Sports are rowdy and fan sections are close quarters. We’re called names, we’re touched inappro-priately. I wanted people to be aware of this, 
and I wanted to say Gator fans are better than 
this.
The Internet did not take kindly to the post, 
and people wanted to make it clear my post 
was unappreciated.
I posted about being harassed, so clearly I 
had been looking for attention. I was making 
it “all about me.” I write about sex, so how could I even be offended at an insult?
I used profanity, so I was a hypocrite. I fu-
eled the stigma that women are victims and are the only people harassed. I made “true” advocates look bad.
All of this was OK. It’s one thing to insult 
me, but then someone said I was whining be-cause it was just a “minor grievance.” Another commenter said I was creating an issue where there wasn’t one.
So let me make this clear: Sexual harass-
ment, and harassment of any type, really, is not a “minor grievance.” To call harassment a non-issue belittles how harmful and prevalent 
it is.
According to a 2006 study by The Ameri-
can Association of University Women, 62 per-
cent of female college students report being sexually harassed at their university.
One in six American women are raped in 
their lifetime, and college women are three times more likely to be assaulted.
Despite these large numbers, only 26 per-
cent of sexual assaults are reported. Only 20 percent of female student survivors ages 18 to 24 report their assaults to law enforcement. This means only one in ﬁ  ve 
women our age come forward about their sexual assaults. The 
number of reports for other forms 
of harassment — workplace harass-ment, street harassment — are even smaller.
These abysmal numbers should 
be no surprise if this is the reac-tion every time a woman comes 
forward: “Quit whining. You’re just trying to get attention. You’re making a big deal about 
nothing.”
Labeling harassment and assault as “no big 
deal” is why survivors do not come forward. 
They feel ashamed, they feel embarrassed, 
they feel like they’re making a fuss about noth-
ing and they’re afraid they won’t be believed.
Putting women down for speaking up 
about harassment, like people did to me, shames them for something that is not their 
fault. If someone sees another person being 
attacked for telling their story, they learn not to say anything at all, lest they be blamed or insulted similarly.
One woman told me my post would ac-
complish nothing. Progress would never hap-pen just because of one measly Facebook post, according to her comment. I have to hope this isn’t true.
When one person shares a story, it encour-
ages other survivors to come forward and say, “This happened to me, too. This is a problem. We need to ﬁ  nd a solution.”
Maybe no one realized women are ha-
rassed at football games. Now that they see it’s an issue, that it affects real people, now that they have a face to put on a broad problem, they’ll be more likely to look out for it and step 
in.
This week is UF Student Government’s 
2015 Sexual Assault Awareness Week, and the 
theme is “It’s On Us.” And it really is.
It’s on us to encourage people to come for-
ward about all types of harassment. It’s on us to listen and support people, not shame them for telling their stories It’s on us to ﬁ  ght against sexual harassment and assault and to speak up 
when we see it or when we experience it.
But most importantly, it’s on us not to 
stand for harassment or assault in any form. If 
you want to shame someone, shame the per-
petrator, not the survivor for coming forward.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism senior. Her 
column appears on Fridays.It’s on us: Stop shaming survivorsColumn
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.org
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org
By Zalomé Briceño
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF industrial and systems engi-
neering sophomore Andres Esteller 
chanted: “Consent is hot. Assault is not.”
Esteller and about 25 other stu-
dents marched back and forth from the Plaza of the Americas to Tur-lington Plaza on Thursday morn-ing for the event “Dress Does Not Mean Yes.” The group was sup-porting Sexual Assault Awareness 
Month and HeForShe UF, a gender-
equality organization.
Esteller, 20, said he protested 
because he thinks sexual assaults shouldn’t happen, especially at UF.
“Female friends I had always 
(had) some story about how they were groped at some party, how they were groped at some bar, how they’re treated differently; dimin-ished because of their gender,” he 
said.
UF biochemistry freshman Tif-
fany Nelson said she wanted to 
educate people on the prevalence 
of sexual assault.
“Being a woman, I feel like no 
one should ever experience it,” the 
18-year-old said. “And I just want to be able to stand with them.”
HeForShe UF president and 
founder Lillian Rozsa said she was satisfied with the march’s outcome.
“I think everyone really paid at-
tention as we were walking,” the 19-year-old said.
UF economics and microbiol-
ogy junior Manny Rutinel marched with a sign that read, “But first 
lemme get consent.”  
The 20-year-old said men need 
to know  about and be aware of 
sexual violence because they are 
often the perpetrators.
“We should be at the forefront 
of teaching our fellow men mem-
bers about this issue,” Rutinel said.8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015
TOP LEFT:
David Rodriguez, a 23-year-old 
UF biology senior, raises aware-ness for UF Student Govern-ment’s 2015 Sexual Assault Awareness Week by hoisting a sign reading “men of quality re-spect gender equality” on Thurs-day. 
BOTTOM LEFT:
Students supported Sexual As-sault Awareness Month with a “Dress Does Not Mean Yes” march with signs that protested gender inequality on Turlington Plaza on Thursday. 
BOTTOM RIGHT:
HeForShe UF president Lillian Rozsa (left), a 19-year-old UF political science and women’s studies sophomore, and secre-tary Whitney Hall, a 19-year-old UF biology sophomore, lead the “Dress Does Not Mean Yes” walk from the Plaza of the Americas to Turlington Plaza on Thursday. 
CAMPUS
Students march in “Dress Does Not Mean Yes” movementBy Paola Asencio
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will celebrate Day of the 
Girl Child on Sunday and learn how to help 
girls in poor countries get an education. 
The UF chapter of She’s the First, a 
gender-equality organization, will host its first-ever summit at Heavener Hall, Room 160, from 9 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., summit di-
rector Valentina Lopez-Diaz said.Day of the Girl Child is an international 
holiday the United Nations created in 2011. She’s the First raises money to give schol-
arships to young women in low-income countries to create equal opportunities for them.  
At the summit, UF students will learn 
about women’s empowerment, female entrepreneurship and professional devel-opment, said Lopez-Diaz, a UF marketing sophomore.About 90 people have registered for the 
event, and 150 are expected to attend, she said. 
It costs $5 to register online in advance 
and $7 for those who pay at the door. All of the proceeds will benefit the young women 
the organization helps. Gator Domino’s is 
matching the group’s donations, she said.Currently, She’s the First UF has helped 
fund four international girls’ education, Lopez-Diaz, 19, said. The money raised will help fund the girls’ schooling fees, 
housing and feminine-hygiene products.
She’s the First UF president, Andrea 
Barahona, said she hopes attendees will 
acknowledge the issues of gender inequal-ity.
“What we’re doing is creating a change 
in the lives of girls in other countries,” the 21-year-old English and sociology senior said. UF students to celebrate women’s empowerment in summit
It will be Sunday in Heavener
“What we’re doing is creating a change 
in the lives of girls in other countries.”
Andrea Barahona
UF English and sociology senior
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffFRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
afernandez@alligator.org 
As a 3-D printer whirred behind 
her Thursday, Erin Winick spoke 
about the way she combines art and 
science.
Winick, a UF mechanical engi-
neering senior, founded Sci Chic, 
a company that produces science-
inspired accessories. At the Samuel 
P. Harn Museum of Art’s Art in Engi-neering event Thursday, she promot-ed the company, which launched that day. 
“There’s a lot of creativity and 
art that goes into (engineering),” the 21-year-old said. “It’s more than just number-crunching.” 
This was the fifth year the Harn 
hosted the event in collaboration with the Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering, said Tami Wroath, director of marketing and public re-lations for the Harn. 
“It’s showcasing the talents of the 
engineers we have here on campus,” Wroath said. 
About 100 students and faculty 
wandered through the halls of the 
museum, admiring the science-in-
spired artwork of more than 30 stu-dents. 
UF interdisciplinary studies ju-
nior Emma O’Halloran Leach said she was drawn to the Sci Chic table because she had never seen a work-ing 3-D printer before. 
“I think it’s amazing these wom-
en are able to incorporate seemingly opposite things,” the 20-year-old said. 
All of Sci Chic’s products are 3-D printed, Winick said. They currently sell necklaces, rings and clutches, 
but Winick hopes to expand to cloth-
ing, like the handmade galaxy-print dress she was wearing. 
“I can now say watching Project 
Runway is business research,” she 
said.  
Money made from sales is going 
back into the company, but Winick 
said she hopes to add a philanthrop-
ic arm. 
Sci Chic is owned and operated 
by women, Winick said. She runs 
the company alongside Emily Huber, a UF mechanical and aerospace engi-
neering senior. 
Wearing a shuttle-inspired dress 
and a necklace modeled after the 
Apollo 11’s trajectory to the moon, 
Huber said she hopes to represent 
women in science through Sci Chic. 
“We hope to encourage other 
women to become interested in sci-ence,” the 21-year-old said.A marriage of art and science 
TOP LEFT:
Emily Huber, a 21-year-old UF mechanical and aerospace engi-
neering senior, talks about her 3-D printer, which she made her-self. It is one of two printers that creates Sci Chic’s products.
BOTTOM LEFT:
Sara Hoffen, an 18-year-old UF industrial and systems engineer-ing freshman, plays her flute at the Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art contemporary gallery on Thursday. Hoffen played multiple Disney-themed arrangements and said she has been playing the flute for eight years.
TOP RIGHT:
Erin Winick, a 21-year-old UF mechanical engineering senior, talks about her new company, Sci Chic, and its products. Winick started Sci Chic to create and sell science-inspired jewelry and accessories. The products are made using 3-D printers and dif-ferent plastic and metal materials. 
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Marshall Petrik, a 21-year-old UF mechanical engineering se-nior, shows off his $550 handcrafted pen at the Harn Museum’s Art in Engineering event on Thursday evening. The pen, made from real watch parts, took Petrik 40 hours to craft. He said he has been making pens from a variety of materials for six years.Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Aaron Albright / Alligator StaffAaron Albright / Alligator StaffAaron Albright / Alligator Staff3-D printed jewelry shownFRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
1 bed available in 2/1 w/ mature female stu-dent. $425.00 monthly including utilities and high-speed internet. 2 miles from UF. (352) 631-0737    10-16-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    10-13-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
CONDO FOR SALE:Meadowbrook Golf Course Upstairs Corner Unit, 2/2, 1273 Sq Ft. MLS # 367033 $124,900. Call Mary Jo Brick 352-219-0430 San Felasco Real Estate Services, Inc for an appt.    10-14-15-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
Multi-Family Yard Sale
to support kids in Alachua County with hear-
ing loss. Saturday, October 10 from 7am to 
noon. 8216 NW 54th St.Gainesville, FL 32653    
10-9-15-2-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-121For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easilysubmit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
CITT Web Services captioning has an 
OPS part-time position for typist to assist with transcribing video recorded lectures. Knowledge of ADA standards a plus.  Must be an excellent listener and able to type 40 correct words per minute. 15-20 hours/week  8.05/hr . Send resume to Kim Standifer standik@ufl.edu   10-13-15-10-14Collins Reinforcing is now hiring Rodbusters rebar ironworkers experienced and non ex-perienced for work at the Gainsville Standard Call 828 442 9798 or 828 659 2867    10-27-14-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week! NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    10-9-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    10-9-1-14
ACROSS
1 Stirs
5 He wrote about
“a midnight
dreary”
8 Gobble (up)
13 Die, with “out”
14 Blog entry15 Capital of India16 Capital __17 Colorful fish18 Took the wrong
way?
19 Old Tokyo20 Haul to the
kitchen, asgroceries
22 Word before or
after dog
23 High-five relative24 Poison remedy26 Poison test site27 Steamy stuff
30 Queen of the
Goths in
Shakespeare’s“TitusAndronicus”
32 *Vandalized, in a
way
33 Romantic activity
34 Words of wisdom
35 Country on the
Strait of Hormuz
36 Ravel classic
39 *Head of the
produce section?
43 Old-style warning44 Rather little45 Understand46 Deli staple49 Like Beethoven’s
“PastoralSymphony”
50 Horse show
concern
52 They’re
graphicallyrepresentedthree times in thisgrid ... and theanswers tostarred clues arethe six longestcommon wordsthan can bespelled usingonly them
53 2000 World
Series venue
54 Yearbook, e.g.56 Bakery buy57 Newspaper fig.
58 Little garden
party?
59 Mazatlán Mrs.60 End in __
61 Facilitated62 Suffer
63 Squealed
DOWN
1 *Yielded
2 “Is it worth the
risk?”
3 Knowledgeable
about
4 Word before or
after blue
5 Online
annoyances
6 Oklahoma county
in which a 2008Pulitzer-winningdrama is set
7 Work __8 Many AARP
mems.
9 “Darn it!”
10 Ill-fated 1967
mission
11 Brush up on12 *Place for oats14 Member of the
force
21 Darwin, for one25 Fruit named for a
Turkish town
28 14-Down’s need,
at times
29 Legendary flier31 “Morning Joe”
airer
33 Like Congress36 *Emotional
burden
37 1992 Mamet play38 Fast-growing
U.S. ethnic group40 Reigning
emperor ofJapan
41 Regan’s
poisoner, inShakespeare
42 *Wiped out47 “__ luck!”48 Asteroids 
maker
51 Subdue53 “Buzz off!”55 Went first
By Bruce Haight©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/09/1510/09/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, October 9, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator 
Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    10-9-1-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-
time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing 
available. Barn Family Program to mitigate 
board and rent. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   
10-30-15-69-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Italian & Spanish Tutoring
Call 786-395-3262
$8/Hr Students                         10-9-3-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    10-9-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    10-9-1-16ATTN: Drivers- Great Miles + Top 1% Pay
Loyalty Bonus
Quality Equipment w APUs
Pet/Rider Program
Matching 401K
CDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782
www.drive4melton.com    10-9-1-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 18 PersonalsBecky Burleigh and the Florida 
soccer team will be traveling to 
Knoxville to face the T ennessee 
Volunteers tonight at 7.  Read 
the story online at www.alligator.
org/sports.By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
Last year’s game against Missouri was an 
embarrassment for the Gators.
On its home field — and on homecoming 
no less — Florida was blown out by the Tigers 
42-13 in what was the worst loss of the 2014 
season for UF.
The Gators (5-0, 3-0 Southeastern Confer -
ence) and former coach Will Muschamp were 
booed off Florida Field. As this year’s version 
of the game gets underway in Columbia, Mis -
souri on Saturday at 7:30 p.m., players on last 
season’s team remember just how bad of a loss 
it was.   
“It was really a slap in the face,” wide receiv -
er Valdez Showers said. “I mean, on our home 
field so we’re definitely (looking) forward and 
giving everything we have this game.”
Added redshirt junior defensive lineman 
Alex McCalister: “That was probably the low -
est point of the year. That was homecoming. 
We came in and just let that team take every -
thing from us."
However, this year’s Gators team is a bit dif -ferent compared to last year’s heading into the 
Missouri game. Florida is ranked 11th in the 
country and is unblemished in the loss column, 
coming off an upset win against an Ole Miss 
team ranked No. 3 at the time.
Meanwhile, Missouri (4-1, 1-1 SEC) hasn’t 
looked impressive so far. Against Arkansas 
State — a 27-20 road win — the Tigers were 
only able to muster 288 yards of total offense.  
And in a 9-6 win at home against UCONN, Mis -
souri only had 270 yards of total offense.  
But the Tigers have been able to accom -
plish something the Gators haven’t the past 
two years: win back-to-back SEC East division 
titles.
“Those guys are the champs, man. Two 
years. They’re the champs of our side,” senior 
linebacker Antonio Morrison said. 
“Really we’re trying to knock them off. 
They’ve been to Atlanta twice. It should be a 
great game.”
On paper, Florida has an advantage in al -
most every major statistical category. The 
Gators are tied for 41st in the country in scor -
ing offense at 34.4 points per game, while the 
Tigers are tied for 113th (21.4). 
While UF hasn’t set the world on fire in terms of total offense — averaging 394.2 yards 
per game, 75th in the country — they are much 
better than Missouri, which ranks 120th (322.4 
yards per contest).
However, Missouri does have the advantage 
in total defense. The Tigers are ranked eighth 
in the country, giving up just 263.6 yards per 
game. UF is not far behind, as it gives up only 
304.2 yards per game — 23rd in the nation.  
Even with all the advantages the Gators 
have in the stats department combined with 
the momentum of knocking off a highly ranked 
opponent last week in the Rebels, coach Jim 
McElwain has warned his team to not take the 
Tigers lightly.
“They’re a little bit under the radar. No one 
has knocked them off,” McElwain said. “It’ll 
be really interesting to see how our guys ap -
proach this week, what they learned from the 
past, to see how we approach this opportunity 
on Saturday.”
One thing the players on the team might 
look to for extra motivation is that Saturday’s 
game is the Tigers’ homecoming.
Some of the players didn’t realize it was 
Missouri’s homecoming game, but on Tues -
day, McCalister found out.
Revenge is definitely on his mind. 
“That’s even more perfect. I didn’t know 
that. That’s better. Now I know.” 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF's game against
Missouri, follow @Graham311.  FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida volleyball returns home after roadtrip
The Florida volleyball team returns home to Gainesville after a two-game 
roadtrip. The Gators have lost three straight Southeastern Conference 
games for the first time in head coach Mary Wise's tenure. UF will play T exas 
A&M tonight at 7 before playing Auburn on Sunday at 3 p.m. We’re six weeks into the col -
lege football season, and 
we here at the alligatorS -
ports Brand Picks Column 
are ready for a road match -
up between Florida and Missouri.
The Gators pulled off a stunning 
upset last week against then-No. 3 
Ole Miss, and coach Jim McElwain 
became the first UF coach to open his 
debut season with the Gators with a 
5-0 record since Steve Spurrier did so 
in 1990. Now, Florida will be head -
ing on the road for the second time 
this season as it travels to Columbia, 
Missouri, for a matchup against the 
Tigers, who are coming off a 24-10 
victory against Spurrier’s South Caro -
lina team.
Debating Saturday’s Miami vs. 
Florida State game are alligatorS -
ports assistant editor Luis Torres and 
alligatorSports staff writer Graham 
Hack.
Miami (+9) will cover the 
spread because… 
The Hurricanes aren’t as bad as 
everyone thinks. If you listened to 
what people are saying about them, 
you would think they were a 1-3 
ballclub. But in fact, the Hurricanes 
are 3-1, and they actually rank sec -
ond in the Atlantic Coast Conference 
in total offense and fourth in scoring 
offense — both of which are higher 
than the Seminoles. Good quarter -
backs are also great equalizers, and 
Brad Kaaya, who leads the ACC in 
passing, will be the first real test for 
a Florida State defense that hasn’t 
faced an actual offense this season. 
Plus, this is a rivalry game, and as 
we all know, these are the contests 
that breed close finishes and bring 
out the best in underdogs. In this 
series in particular, 12 of the last 16 
games have been decided by nine 
points or fewer, including last year’s 
30-26 Florida State victory.
—Graham HackPICKS
SITE:  Memorial Stadium 
at Faurot Field (cap. 71,167)
KICKOFF:  7:30 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO:  SEC Network
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15
Homecoming Revenge
Alligator File Photo
Missouri players celebrate with their fans after a 42-13 win against Florida on Oct. 18 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Gators hope to avenge 2014 loss Florida State (-9) will win 
because… 
Do you see that flying in the sky? 
Oh yeah, it’s another “Fire Al 
Golden” banner.  Expect another 
one to be flying high this week -
end as the Hurricanes will travel 
to Tallahassee. Miami coach Al 
Golden has the hottest seat in 
America right now. Quarterback 
Everett Golson seems to have left 
his ability to turnover the ball in 
South Bend as he’s yet to commit 
one this year, while throwing for 
seven touchdowns. Expect the 
Seminoles to win their sixth con -
secutive game of the rivalry.  
—Luis Torres
Now onto the picks!
In first place with a 22-17-1 
record is the Orlando Sentinel’s 
Edgar “Make me a sandwich” 
Thompson, who was offered a 
delectable peanut butter and 
jelly sandwich by Florida football 
coach Jim McElwain on Wednes -
day. That's a pretty sweet deal, 
Edgar. Make sure you get it on 
video — Mac will wait. And 
don't be like Antonio Callaway 
and get the crust cut off.
We have a three-way tie for 
second place, all three sporting 
21-18-1 records.
To start off is Nick “self-tanner” 
de la Torre, whose palms were 
more orange on Wednesday 
than the pumpkins used for his 
Dunkin Donuts' spiced latte. Hey 
Nick, instead of just getting your 
palms tanned, why don’t you go 
all out and join the cast of the 
Jersey Shore? It would be a much better career for you.   
Tied with Nick is Alligator 
managing/online editor Jordan 
“not-a-handyman” McPherson 
who botched Alex Anzalone's 
shoulder injury by describing it 
as being held together by "Duck 
tape" instead of duct tape. Hey 
Jordan, how about you get some 
sleep. Maybe if you dream about 
some ducks everything will be 
OK. 
And finally, we have the Palm 
Beach Post’s Anthony “south of 
Miami” Chiang, who is still in 
denial about being “born and raised” in Miami. Hey Anthony, 
Graham Hall disproved your 
theory about Kendall being a 
part of Miami, so the jig is up. 
Embrace that you’re a part of 
unincorporated Dade county and 
don't have your Twitter followers 
fight your battles for you.
In fifth, with a 19-20-1 record, 
we have alligatorSports editor 
Graham “Prius” Hall who de -
cided to make the lovely 16 hour 
trip to Missouri in his Prius. Hey 
Graham, I hope everyone on the 
road is ready for you to blast 
Young Thug. Nothing says "I'm 
a straight up G" than listening to that genre in Toyota’s fuel ef -
ficient car. 
In sixth place with a record of 16-
23-1 is alligatorSports assistant 
editor Luis “fake Yankees fan” 
Torres, who took far too much 
enjoyment in Alex Rodriguez’s 
failure in Wednesday’s AL Wild 
Card game than a real Yankees 
fan should. Hey Luis, it’s time to 
ditch the Yankees snuggie — you 
don’t deserve it anymore.
In seventh place with a record 
of 15-24-1 is alligatorSports staff 
writer Graham “left turn” Hack, 
who decided to watch NASCAR qualifying in the office in the 
middle of the MLB Playoffs. Hey 
Graham, maybe if you learned to 
make a left turn you’d be able to 
show up to work on time.
And now in dead-ass-last with 
a piss poor record of 14-25-1 is 
247 Sports’ Thomas “original 
injury guy” Goldkamp, who 
was temporarily replaced as the 
guy who asks about injuries by 
Landon, aka injury guy “the 
sequel” according to McElwain. 
It’s OK, Thomas, you’ll probably 
be in the $5 bargain bin in a few 
months with such classics as GI 
Joe and Highlander.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
  HALL  LT  HACK  JM
UF (-5) vs. Mizz  UF  UF  UF  UF
USC vs. LSU (-15)  LSU  LSU  LSU  LSU
Okla (-17) vs. T exas  OKLA  TX  OKLA  OKLA
NW vs. Mich (-7.5)  MICH  MICH  NW  NW
UGA (-3) vs. T enn  UGA  TENN  UGA  TENN
Ark vs. Bama (-17)  BAMA  BAMA  BAMA  ARK
Cal vs. Utah (-7.5)  UTAH  CAL  UTAH  UTAH
GT vs. Clemson (-7)  CLEM  CLEM  CLEM  CLEM
  ET  AC  ND  TG
UF (-5) vs. Mizz  MIZZ  UF  UF  UF
USC vs. LSU (-15)  LSU  LSU  LSU  LSU
Okla (-17) vs. T exas  OKLA  OKLA  OKLA                   OKLA
NW vs. Mich (-7.5)  MICH  NW  NW  MICH
UGA (-3) vs. T enn  UGA  TENN  UGA  TENN
Ark vs. Bama (-17)  ARK  ARK  BAMA  ARK
Cal vs. Utah (-7.5)  CAL  UTAH  UTAH  UTAH
GT vs. Clemson (-7)  CLEM  CLEM  CLEM  CLEMCOLUMN,  from pg 1416   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015
