We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 151 TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015
Baseball sweeps Regional, preps
for FSU next
See a photo story from this weekend, pg 10.
Man attempts carjacking, kidnap
A Dignity Village man stopped it, pg 3
Overhead projectors becoming obsolete, but still in use
There have been three requests since Jan. 1, pg 8The silent struggles of an undocumented immigrant
A young man’s struggle to earn the money to 
go to school, pgs 4-5
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Summer Smash Bros.
From left: Bradley Williams, a 23-year-old UF journalism senior, faces off against 22-year-old Sigma 
Alpha Mu member Will Warden in a round of “Super Smash Bros. for Wii U” on Turlington Plaza on Monday at a Sigma Alpha tabling event.
By Dana Hatchett
Alligator Staff Writer
dhatchett@alligator.org
 
President Barack Obama and his admin-
istration are buzzing about a new plan to help increase the population of honey bees and other pollinators in the U.S.
On May 19, Obama’s administration an-nounced the National Strategy to Promote the Health of Honey Bees and Other Pol-linators.
According to the 64-page document re-
leased by the White House, the strategy’s three main goals are to reduce honey bee-colony losses to no more than 15 percent in the next 10 years, increase the population 
of Eastern monarch butterﬂ  ies to about 
225 million by 2020 and restore or enhance seven million acres of land for pollinators over the next ﬁ  ve years.
William Kern, a UF 
professor in urban ento-
mology at Ft. Lauderdale 
Research and Education Center, said he thinks the land set aside for pollina-tors will most likely be 
beneﬁ  cial.
Kern said about 30 percent of bee colo-
nies are lost during the winter, but losses are made up by shifts in management. 
Over the last ﬁ  ve years, colony numbers 
have remained consistent, Kern said.
“Beekeepers have changed their man-
agement style,” Kern said. “We are now 
managing our bees to have more colonies.” 
Kern mentioned his concern with the 
plan sounding a bit too ambitious, saying 
there are many other causes of honey bee deaths outside of land loss, including dead-ly parasites, deadly viruses, poor nutrition and poor management from the farmer. Beekeepers buzz about new strategy to help save honey beesCAMPUS
By Luisa Guaracao
Alligator Contributing Writer
After a year of work, the UF 
Eckhoff Steel Bridge Team built its way to the top.
The team won ﬁ  rst place in the 
2015 National Student Steel Bridge Competition for the ﬁ  rst time since 1997.
In order to compete, each team 
had to design and fabricate a bridge according to a set of rules established by the American So-ciety of Civil Engineers and the American Institute of Steel Con-struction. 
The annual competition took 
place May 22-23 in Kansas City, Missouri. There were 47 teams 
from across the United States, 
Canada and Mexico that partici-pated in the national competition.
While it may seem like a sim-
ple task to an outsider, the whole process takes about a year and thousands of hours of hard work. During the Fall the team designed the bridge, and they fabricated it in Spring.
“When we fabricate the bridge 
we measure everything to the six-
ty-fourth of an inch,” said Juliana 
Rochester, the team’s design cap-tain. “Everything is so precise that it just takes an incredible amount of time.”
To qualify for nationals, the 
team ﬁ  rst had to compete in re-gionals. This year, the top four teams in UF’s region went to na-
tionals. Overall, more than 200 
teams participated in the competi-tion at the regional level.
At the competition, the bridges 
are judged across six categories: construction speed, stiffness, light-ness, economy, display and efﬁ  -ciency. On top of being crowned Bridge-building team 
wins national contestA UF PROFESSOR IS WORKING 
WITH A TEAM FROM NASA TO 
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT EARTH’S 
NEIGHBORING PLANET.
By Kyle Bennett
Alligator Contributing Writer
A ﬁ  rst-of-its-kind mission to study the in-
terior of the planet Mars is set to launch in 
2016, and a UF professor is playing a critical role in the planning process.
Mark Panning, a UF assistant professor of geological sciences, is part of an inter-
national team working to make operation 
InSight a success.
Panning said the goal of the mission is 
understanding the full picture of how Mars was made.
The InSight mission, originally named 
GEMS, was chosen in 2011 in a competitive 
manner with many proposals, including a 
mission to a comet and another to Saturn’s moon Titan, said Guy Webster of Jet Pro-
pulsion Laboratory in California.
InSight stands for Interior Exploration using Seismic Investigations, Geodesy and Heat Transport.
“Mars is still recording the processes that 
happened in the planetary formation that 
we’ve erased on Earth,” Panning said. “This is our way of understanding how planets 
are built, how our solar system functions,  
really.”
Panning is a seismologist who said he 
started studying earthquakes and now wants to study quakes on other planets.
InSight will not have the capability to 
move across the surface of Mars. It will launch in September 2016 and remain ﬁ  xed in a single location once it lands.
“For us, we don’t want a rover because 
we want the seismometer to sit in place, and we want to measure things really carefully 
from that one ﬁ  xed point,” said Panning.  Knowledge about interior of Mars is InSight
SEE BEES,  PAGE 7SEE BRIDGE,  PAGE 7SEE NASA,  PAGE 7
They have mixed opinions“This is our way of understanding how 
planets are built, how our solar system 
functions, really.”
Mark Panning
UF geological sciences assistant professor
Kern
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 151
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Friday Night Swing Dancing at 
the MUB
Do you have mad dancing skills? Or do you want mad dancing skills? The Florida Swing Dancing 
Club invites you and your friends 
out to our weekly dance every Friday. We will have a free lesson for beginners and intermediates, open to everyone! No partner or experience needed. Lessons are from 8 to 9 p.m. and the dance is from 9 to 11 p.m. at the UF School of Music, Room 121. For more in-
formation find us on Facebook: 
facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/.
Florida’s Global Kitchen
Celebrate Florida’s diverse food history at the Matheson History Museum’s new Florida’s Global Kitchen exhibit, which will run through July 30. The Matheson History Museum will showcase artifacts, recipes and stories that 
highlight Florida’s food culture, 
which is one of the most di-verse food cultures in the world. Take a step into the kitchen of Pulitzer Prize-winning author Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, which the Matheson will recreate us-ing artifacts on loan from her Cross Creek home. As the au-
thor of “The Yearling,” Rawlings 
brought the Florida frontier into the lives of people around the world. Additionally, as the author of “Cross Creek Cookery” she brought “Cracker” cooking onto dinner plates around the coun-try. The Matheson Museum is open from 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. 
Monday through Thursday. For 
more information, call 352-378-2280 or email info@matheson-museum.org. The exhibit is free.
World Sea Turtle Day Celebration
Celebrate World Sea Turtle Day on June 20 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Florida Museum of Natural History with the Sea Turtle Conservancy. Children and fami-lies are invited to tour the muse-
um’s sea turtle exhibit with staff 
from the Sea Turtle Conservancy. The free event features sea turtle specimens, a turtle library and stickers and bookmarks for all kids. Children also may create fun crafts to take home, meet sea tur-tle scientists and play turtle trivia for a chance to win a cool prize. 
Visitors will also have the oppor-
tunity to speak with researchers from the UF Archie Carr Center for Sea Turtle Research about sea turtle conservation and careers in marine biology.
‘Butterfly Senses’ in the 
Butterfly Rainforest
Do butterflies really taste with 
their feet and smell using their antennae? Visit the Butterfly Rainforest exhibit at the Florida Museum of Natural History through June 30 to discover more about a butterfly’s senses. Daily butterfly releases are held at 2 p.m. with additional weekend re-
leases at 3 and 4 p.m., weather 
permitting. UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card receive free admission year-round.
Blue Star Museums
The Florida Museum of Natural History is offering free admission to all fee-based exhibits for active-
duty military personnel and their 
families through Labor Day as part of the Blue Star Museums program. Free admission is available to any active-duty U.S. military (Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines or Coast Guard, as well as members of the National Guard and Reserve, U.S. Public Health 
Service and National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps) and up to five family members. For more information on the program, including a list of participating museums and acceptable IDs, visit arts.gov/national/blue-star-
museums/frequently-asked-ques-
tions. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. To en-sure publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit the 
event before 4 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the pa-per. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
STATE
Tropical Storm Blanca forms in 
Pacific Ocean off Mexico
MIAMI (AP) — Tropical Storm 
Blanca has formed in the Pacific 
Ocean off Mexico and is expected 
to strengthen quickly over the next two days.The second-named storm of the season was centered about 335 miles south-southwest of Zihuatanejo, Mexico, on Monday. It has maximum sustained winds of 40 mph and is moving north-
west at 5 mph.
The U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami said no coastal warnings or watches are in effect, but the storm is expected to gain strength and become a hurricane Tuesday. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. HIGH  86° LOW  67°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Lindsey Saucier,
  Kristine Janata
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Amanda Churchill, Serina Esquivel,
  Bailey Gaul, Miriam Gonzalez,    
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn,    
  T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel Lo
TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 By Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org
A local man prevented another 
man from stealing a car with two 
children inside Saturday after-
noon.
At about 2:30 p.m. at 3520 
NE Waldo Road, Randy Randell 
Randolph III of Lake Butler got in 
the driver’s seat of a car after the 
driver went inside to pay for gas, 
according to a Gainesville Police 
Department arrest report. When the two children began to scream 
as Randolph 
started the en-gine, Robert Gibbs of Dignity 
Village stepped 
in and pulled 
him out of the 
driver’s seat.
Randolph, 23, then ran south-
bound when officers arrived, 
Gainesville Police Officer Ben To-
bias wrote in an email. 
He was eventually caught by police around the area of 3330 NE Waldo Road. Gainesville Police 
arrested Randolph on one charge 
of carjacking without a weapon, one charge of resisting an officer without violence and one kidnap-
ping charge. 
Officers took him to the Ala-
chua County Jail, where he re-
mained as of press time in lieu of a $210,000 bond.
Randolph was arrested the 
night before on misdemeanor marijuana charges, according to county records.
With thunderstorms and expected in Gainesville throughout 
the week, here are some safety tips for if the sky turns gray:
• Monitor the weather.
• Postpone outdoor activities.
• Stay indoors once a severe thunderstorm warning has been 
issued.
• If you are outside, avoid open areas and stay away from isolated tall trees, towers or utility poles. Get inside a substantial building or hard-topped metal vehicle, if possible.
Source: National Weather ServiceNicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Stormy Skies
A cyclist rides east on Southeast Second Avenue shortly after a rainstorm Monday. The weather is predicted to be stormy today through Thursday.
Randolph
CRIME
Man attempts carjack, kidnap4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Matias Garces’ fingers dance 
across the fretboard as his guitar 
cries out, singing the song of a man 
who lost it all.
The 19-year-old works 40 hours 
a week, grinding away to make enough money to pay his bills and 
save for college. 
But his life as an undocumented 
immigrant has held him back.
He lives with his mother and his 
dog, Tank, an Australian shepherd 
pit bull, in a two-bedroom mobile 
home situated snugly in a mobile 
park. His blue, self-customized van sits outside on the green grass.
In his room are his prized pos-
sessions: several acoustic guitars. 
It’s too easy to make elec-
tric guitars sound good, he said. Acoustic requires real talent, a tal-ent Matias has built upon over the 
past several years.
Music is his outlet, an escape 
from the hardships and difficulties of life. A way to express the soul 
in a way words cannot. He plays a song of sadness and agony — a 
product of a life of hardship and 
disappointment.
He just wants to go to college, 
to reach the next stage in his life. 
But money is holding him back.
Matias isn’t alone in his finan-
cial struggles, said Olivia Garcia, 
the director of the UF Institute of 
Hispanic Latino Cultures.
For many immigrants — docu-
mented and undocumented — try-ing to attend college, Garcia said 
the question isn’t “Will I or will I 
not get in?” 
“It’s, ‘How am I going to pay for 
this?’” she said.
“The thing is, all immigrants 
pretty much have a very high fi-
nancial burden on them as it is,” 
said Colin Abbott, a managing at-
torney of Florida Rural Legal Ser-vices, which helps migrant farm 
workers. “But then when you add 
to that the fact that their benefits are limited and their abilities to get 
assistance from the government is 
limited, if at all,” attending college becomes almost impossible.
Further complicating the issue 
for immigrants, especially those who are undocumented, are tuition 
fees. Depending on an immigrant’s 
legal status and residency, he or she may have to pay out-of-state 
tuition, which at UF, for example, 
is triple that of in-state.
Federal financial aid is an op-
tion for some immigrants, but not all. Immigrants can apply for private financial aid, but there’s 
no guarantee they’ll receive assis-
tance.
Earlier this year, President 
Barack Obama announced a plan to make the first two years of com-munity college free. Millions of 
people, such as Matias, would ben-
efit, the White House said.
While the plan still has to be approved by Congress, Abbott said 
many immigrants could benefit.
The requirements to be eligible 
are simple. Students must maintain a 2.5 GPA, make strides toward 
completing their degree and attend school at least part-time.
All students have to do, Obama 
said, is work for it. 
And that’s exactly what Matias 
has been doing.
•   •   •
In 2000, life in Uruguay for 
Hugo and Patricia Garces was dif-
ficult. The country was in crisis, 
Patricia said, and they wanted to get out. Most importantly, they 
wanted to give their children, Ma-
tias and Sabina, better opportuni-ties than they had in Uruguay.  
An uncle in Miami offered them 
to move in with him. The Garces family accepted the offer and came 
to Florida with tourist visas, which 
allowed them to legally stay in the U.S. for three months.
A local church worked to get 
them citizenships but was never able to.
On September 11, 2001, millions 
of lives were radically changed and the hope of obtaining citizenship 
was destroyed. The Garces family 
was living in a new America and was about to undergo extreme dif-
ficulties.
With expired visas, the threat 
of deportation became the Garces family’s biggest concern. They had 
to avoid police at all cost and live as discretely as possible.
Three years after moving to Mi-
ami, a family friend offered Hugo a job in Gainesville. He accepted 
the offer and moved his family into 
an old, moldy mobile home where cockroaches roamed free and air 
conditioning was a luxury. It was 
all they could afford while living paycheck to paycheck.
Life was just as difficult for the 
Garces family in Gainesville as it was in Miami. They had very little 
support and no one to turn to for 
help. They were undocumented and not eligible for federal as-
sistance. And Matias and Sabina 
didn’t have the same opportunities as other kids, despite those oppor-
tunities being the very reason they 
came to the U.S.
“We always gave them what we 
could,” Patricia said.
Growing up, Matias was a hap-
py kid who easily made friends, 
Patricia said. “Everything was 
good up until he became aware of the whole undocumented status.”
When Matias was about 16, Pa-
tricia and Hugo began getting into heated arguments over a friend Pa-
tricia was messaging online. Hugo 
would threaten her, she said, even saying he would kill her. Other 
times, he would slam his fist into 
the wall, just inches away from her head.
“Sometimes that’s more hurtful 
than actually being hit,” Patricia said.During their final days of being 
together for 25 years, Hugo be-came more violent, Patricia said, 
to the point that living with him 
became intolerable. And one day, he choked her until she fell uncon-
scious. Then he kicked her out of 
their home and told her friends and family that she had cheated on him with the friend she had been mes-saging online.
Patricia was forced to find a 
new place to stay in a town she hardly knew while Matias contin-ued living with Hugo. Unknown to Matias at the time, Patricia began 
pressing charges against Hugo.
During their time together, 
Hugo grew closer to Matias, be-coming more of a friend than a 
father.
“He was trying to manipulate 
me, too,” Matias said. “We went out to eat every day, we were buy-ing and selling cars, and he would 
let me drive the fast ones, just stuff 
like that.
“He became like my best friend 
when before he really didn’t care,” he continued, his voice fading after each word.One morning as Matias was pre-
paring to leave for school, police in 
body armor stormed their home 
and arrested Hugo. Matias was left at home, found later that day by 
Patricia in his room crying. His fa-
ther was gone. The man who was supposed to be there for him when 
he needed help, to guide him when 
life was tough and fix cars with him on the side had been snatched 
from his life.
Originally, Matias tried con-
tacting Hugo. He had believed his father when he said Patricia had 
cheated. But when Matias saw the marks on his mother and heard the 
Andres Leiva/ Alligator Staff
Garces reads “Desiderata, ” a poem by Max Ehrmann, off a plaque he hangs above his bed in his room. 
“You are a child of the universe no less than the trees and the stars; you have a right to be here, ” he reads.
The silent struggles of a migrant in the U.S.
He just wants to go to collegeTUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
truth from her lawyers, he stopped.
“My dad really hurt our family and he 
doesn’t want to admit to it,” Matias said. 
“He doesn’t give a shit.”
On March 17,  Hugo messaged Matias on 
WhatsApp.
“Hi Matias,” he wrote in Spanish. “I’m 
very sorry that you wouldn’t want to write 
me for my birthday, but don’t worry, what 
matters is that you’re OK with that and the 
rest of your life decisions. Dad loves you.”
Matias never responded.
•   •   •
After Hugo’s arrest, Matias and Patricia 
had to learn how to survive on their own. 
Because they were victims of crime, they 
were eligible for U-visas, which allowed them to obtain a social security number and 
an employment authorization document.
Patricia received her documentation first, 
but it would be several months before Matias received his. In the meantime, they needed 
money, so Matias took a job under the table at a factory while he was still in high school.
He worked up to 50 hours a week for 
minimum wage at the factory, often skipping 
school to pick up extra shifts. He’d work late, 
usually until 9 or 10 p.m. but sometimes lat-er. He worked so late one night that he slept 
at the factory instead of returning home.
Any and all free time was devoted to 
school, but it wasn’t enough. His grades dropped and he fell behind in his school 
work. His social life was nonexistent, and he slowly lost touch with his friends.
“It made me feel like I have no life,” 
Matias said. “(Like) my life is literally just 
school and work.”
When he actually was at school, he sold 
candy. He gained a reputation for it. It made extra cash, and that was all that mattered. 
Most of his earnings went toward bills, so he 
needed all the money he could get.
He wanted to go to Santa Fe with his 
friends, but he knew he couldn’t afford to. His older sister Sabina had only been able to 
because she married a U.S. citizen, thereby gaining citizenship and becoming eligible for 
federal financial aid.
By late last year, Matias had saved about 
$2,000. But then his job laid him off, and he was forced to spend his savings as he looked 
for a new job.
At the beginning of this year, he got a 
new job at Chuy’s. He immediately started saving again and had saved almost $1,000 until taxes and an unexpected car problem 
took it all away in April.
Now, he’s saving again, but he’s uncer-
tain if he’ll ever be able to attend college. Patricia now has her own job, but Matias is 
still the primary income provider. His bills take more than half his monthly income 
away, and one unexpected fee after another 
continues to arise.
If Obama’s plan is passed, Matias could 
enroll at Santa Fe and finally begin working toward a degree in business administration and obtaining a welding certificate.
“We don’t expect anybody to be bound 
by the circumstances of their birth,” Obama said during a speech earlier this year in 
which he announced his plan, titled “Ameri-
ca’s College Promise”.
“If they were, I wouldn’t be here,” he 
continued. “But we expect everybody to get a fair shot.”
Matias wants to one day become a car 
salesman and eventually work his way up to owning his own dealership.
“I have the whole car salesman feel, look and speak,” he said, laughing.
He’s not kidding. Point to a random car 
on the street and he can tell you the brand, the model, its parts, its history and any con-
troversy around it. When a woman drives up 
in a white sports car, Matias approaches her and asks her about her ride. 
At Chuy’s, his favorite room to serve and 
bus in is the Hubcap room because of the hubcaps on the ceiling.
But it’s unclear when, and if, he’ll reach those goals. 
First, he wants to get a business admin-
istration degree and welding certificate from Santa Fe College. 
But with each passing day, college seems 
more like a distant dream, something that he comes close to grasping but never fully 
reaches, held back because of a fate he had 
no control over.
Yet despite the hardships and uncertain-
ties, Matias remains hopeful.“I’ve never thought I don’t need to go to 
college,” Matias said. “I know I want a col-lege education. ... It’s just a matter of fact when I can have it, when I can reach it.”
Until then, Matias will keep working and 
saving. Then maybe one day, he’ll finally be able to attend Santa Fe. 
Maybe one day, instead of playing a song 
of despair, his soul will sing of a man who pulled himself up, rose above his challenges 
and overcame all odds.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Patricia Garces speaks to her son, Matias Garces, in the living room of their mobile home. The Garceses came to the U.S. in 2000 on 
tourist visas; when their visas expired they became one of the millions of undocumented families living in the country.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Matias Garces embraces T ank, his Australian shepherd pit bull mix, inside his mobile home. Garces calls T ank his son.“I know I want a college education. ... 
It’s just a matter of fact when I can 
have it, when I can reach it.”
Matias GarcesThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column95 percent of 
airport security 
fails at security 
Don’t read this editorial if you enjoy the illusion of 
airport security being effective.
As air passengers, we’ve all noticed increased 
security at airports throughout the U.S. since 9/11. We’ve taken off our shoes, emptied our pockets, 
subjected ourselves to developments in clothes-penetrating screening technology and waited in mind-numbingly long 
lines through security checkpoints. Well, apparently it’s all 
for naught.
According to a recent investigation of the Transportation 
Security Administration by undercover Homeland Security agents, 67 out of 70 bustling American airports failed to 
detect mock explosives or banned weapons smuggled by 
agents through security checkpoints. That’s a solid 95 per-cent of security tests failed, proving the process inept in case you missed our headline.
Meanwhile, a Muslim-American woman named Tahera 
Ahmad was denied an unopened can of Diet Coke during a United Airlines ﬂ  ight due to an apparent fear she would use it as a weapon. A neighboring passenger was delivered a can of beer, and another neighboring passenger told Ahmad 
to “shut the f*** up” when she protested the discrepancy. 
One wonders how that individual would feel about the ef-fectiveness of our airline security if they’d seen the Home-land Security report.
Homeland Security didn’t disclose when the tests took 
place other than announcing it happened recently, but given the timing, agents could have snuck blocks of mock C4 and Bowie knives through security checkpoints while airline staff simultaneously denied a woman a can of Diet Coke. 
Not only does this sound like a joke from a Saturday 
morning cartoon, but regardless of your views on Middle Eastern relations, this is a huge discrepancy in our security concerns.
The inadequacies in airport security could have had any 
number of consequences in the past two decades of security development, and they just about rendered every promise that security has improved and that Americans are safer an enormous lie. 
Every debate over whether security at airports is ben-
eﬁ  cial has been overturned on the side of “it’s all pretty worthless.”
Oh yeah, TSA ofﬁ  cials would like to announce that 
they’ve implemented measures to address the vulnerabili-ties, which is a promise that is hard to take seriously in light of this being the second recorded security test failure by TSA in as little as two years. 
This is not to say that every airport security ofﬁ  cer is 
some kind of doughnut-chomping mall cop, but we’re being poorly dissuaded from the thought.
American airports need to pick up the slack before some-
one with real, malicious intentions decides to make their 
own mayhem. 
Or, let us all travel in peace if you can’t do your jobs. 
What Happens When: tire pressure light is on
Remember that paperback book that never 
leaves your glove compartment? You know, the 
owner’s manual? You can learn a lot by cracking it open once in a while.
The owner’s manual tells you what all of the 
warning lights mean and what you should do when they come on. Most cars these days, in-cluding my own, come with a variety of “idiot” or warning lights. Whether you’ve noticed or not, cars used to have a multitude of extra gauges on the dashboard, including not just the temperature, but oil level and battery voltage. This way, you could easily tell if your battery needed a charge or your oil was low without popping the hood. Now, most drivers are dependent on these 
“idiot lights” that either give you a warning in the event of 
an emergency or whenever the mechanic has set it to go off.
Rudimentary as some of this stuff may seem, this summer 
I want to go over what steps to take when a warning light comes on.
No.1: My tire pressure light comes onIf your tire pressure light is illuminated, it could be a va-
riety of things — but usually it is not the feared nail in your tire. The No. 1 thing to take into account if your tire pressure 
light is coming on is whether the weather is changing. That 
is, is it a Florida fall and the temperature just went from a sunny 75 one day to 50 degrees the next? Depending how sensitive the sensor is, it will come on because the drastic decrease in temperature causes the tire pressure to drop.
In all cases, if you’re really concerned, or if the tire looks 
low, you should check the pressure. Don’t worry: It’s easier than you think.
You can check the pressure yourself if you have a tire 
pressure gauge ($2.99 at AutoZone) or at any dealership, lube or tire shop. The standard pounds per square inch (PSI) for all four tires is located on the inside of your driver’s side door. Once you’ve measured the current tire pressure, you can compare it to the standard PSI.
If it is drastically low but there is no leak and you just 
want the light to go off, take it to a gas station and add air to it — but be careful not to overinﬂ  ate! Some gas station air pumps have gauges on them, but you’ll need to know how many pounds you are down and check how many you have added.
If the pressure is just slightly off and you’re 
about to travel on the highway or at high speed, I 
don’t recommend pumping the tire up at all. The 
gases expand at high speeds when the tire gets hot, and if it is too inﬂ  ated, it could cause a blow-out.
In general, if you inﬂ  ate the tire, or get on the 
highway with it, the light should go off within a few days
No. 2: The Tire Looks Flat
If your tire looks low but you could still drive on it, take 
it to the nearest tire shop or dealership to have it checked. 
The ﬁ  rst thing you need to ﬁ  gure out is if it has a nail in it or 
not. Then the mechanic will assess if it can be patched. There are two different types of tire patching you can get: an actual patch that is put on the inside of the tire and an internal plug. Most service centers do patches, and internal plugs can be done at home with a kit purchased from an auto parts store.
I called around Gainesville to get a feel for how much a 
tire patch job costs for a 17-inch wheel, which is what I have. Discount Tire actually does the service free of charge, Sears 
charges $24.99 and Parks Ford of Gainesville $15 plus tax.
Point being, don’t feel pressured to take your ﬂ  at tire to 
the dealership. You’ll pay more and it’s unnecessary. Call 
around and shop the best price and possibly the best location depending on how ﬂ  at your tire is. 
When you see a low or ﬂ  at tire, don’t panic! If you can’t 
make it to a service center immediately, make sure to add air to the tire and not drive the car far distances. The last thing you want is to drive on the rim. Lastly, while you’re checking 
your tire for a nail, make sure that the tire itself is not worn 
out. If there is no tread left, you need a new tire altogether!
I hope this was helpful. I plan on doing more “What Hap-
pens When” pieces. When trusting a vehicle to get you where you need to go, it’s important to know the basics about what you’re driving.
Erika Canﬁ  jn is a UF public relations senior. Her column 
usually runs on Thursdays. 
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Erika Canﬁ  jn
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 
Chappie McChesney, founder 
of Alachua County Beekeepers 
Club, said the plan is too little, too late.
McChesney, a 70-year-old 
local beekeeper, critiqued the White House’s strategy. 
“The government is mainly 
focusing on commercial bees,” McChesney said. “Local farmers won’t benefit from such a plan.” 
McChesney, however, agreed 
with the White House’s plan of setting aside acres of land so that 
the bees have more room to for-age. 
Both Kern and McChesney 
have noticed the rise of the num-
ber of bees in Florida, and Kern said they are responsible for the majority of Florida’s agricultural production.  
“Without them, we would 
only have the ability to grow few different kinds of crops like 
wheat, corn and rice, for exam-
ple,” Kern said. “Most fruits and vegetables would not be avail-able, and that would be concern-ing.”
Kern said that for commercial 
beekeepers, pesticides for con-trolling varroa mites in honey-bees are necessary. If used cor-
rectly, Kern said, there should 
most likely be no problem.
McChesney, however, is a 
strong believer in banning the use of harmful pesticides in bee-keeping because he strongly be-lieves that it’s a major cause of mortality in honeybees. In his club meetings, he teaches new 
beekeepers chemical-free bee-
keeping. 
He said the use of chemicals 
in farming is the government’s plan to keep the big pesticide companies in business. 
“The truth is hidden under a 
pile of money,” McChesney said.
BEES,  from pg 1White House setting aside land for bees
the overall winner, UF’s team also won first place in lightness and ef-ficiency.
The team’s bridge was named af-
ter William and Linda Eckhoff, who 
have been funding UF’s Student 
Steel Bridge Program since 1999. It will be on display in the Weil Hall Structures Laboratory, otherwise known as “The Pit.”
Christopher Ferraro, the team’s 
faculty adviser, said he wants stu-dents to see the bridge and remem-ber that the national championship is within their reach because they are at UF.
The Eckhoff Steel Bridge Team 
is one of the competitive teams of UF’s chapter of the American So-ciety of Civil Engineers. The ASCE Concrete Canoe Team, another one of the society’s teams, also ranked among the top in its region and will 
be competing in nationals later this 
month.
Ferraro’s goal is for both teams 
to rank in the top five every year in their respective competitions.
“Even though we got first place, 
that doesn’t mean we are top notch 
yet,” said Marlo Chumioque, a 
member and mentor of the steel bridge team. “In these last two years we stepped up, and we’re going to be ranking top five from now on.” BRIDGE,  from pg 1It will be on display at UF
The seismometer is so sensitive 
that Panning said it is able to mea-
sure motions comparable to the size of a hydrogen atom.
The first objective, Panning 
said, is to have a successful land-ing at a pre-determined spot on Mars’ surface then have InSight’s robotic arm insert a rod that con-tains the seismometer and mea-sure lots of “Marsquakes.” This will go a long way toward learn-ing information about the interior structure of the red planet.
Panning said shaking a jug of 
milk to know how much milk is left is similar to what the seis-mometer will do when it bounces around during a quake happening on Mars.
It will take the lander seven 
months to reach Mars and seven 
minutes to land once the landing 
process begins.
The key to everything going 
as planned is very good software, Panning said. Scientists on Earth 
will be able to communicate with 
InSight to collect data, which is 
where Panning’s job comes into 
play.
As co-lead of what is being 
called the Mars Structure Service, 
Panning will be part of a team in 
Paris that will take the data from 
InSight and turn it into models of 
Martian structure.The lander will take seven 
months to reach Mars
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Volunteer Adam Martinez, a horticulturalist with the Cincinnati Zoo, searches a honeycomb for a 
honey bee queen while routine maintenance is performed at EcOhio Farm in Mason, Ohio. A federal rule proposed Thursday would create temporary pesticide-free zones when certain plants are in bloom around bees that are trucked from farm to farm by professional beekeepers.
NASA,  from pg 1“Even though we got first 
place, that doesn’t mean we 
are top notch yet.”
Marlo Chumioque
team member and mentorTUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015
THERE HAVE BEEN THREE 
REQUESTS SINCE JAN. 1.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
Over the last few decades, class-
room overhead projectors have 
slowly been going out of style.
The projectors across the UF cam-
pus, though hardly used today, have not been completely forgotten, said Mark McCallister, associate director of academic technology.There have been three requests 
logged since Jan. 1 regarding over-head projectors, which cost between $200 and $300, McCallister wrote in an email. The last time projectors were replaced was in the early 2000s, 
at which point there was a projector 
in every classroom or classroom-like facility.
In 1998, 60 more projectors were 
purchased for the classrooms, Mc-Callister said. The overhead projec-tors are reliable, he said. For the most part, a burnt-out bulb will need to be replaced, or the projector will be replaced by one in storage.
Sherry Tornwall, master lecturer 
in the department of mathematics, said the services provided for over-head projectors were always imme-diate when she used them.Today, 
Tornwall has replaced overhead pro-
jectors with document cameras.
“I think that they’re getting obso-
lete,” Tornwall said of the projectors.
Tornwall joined the UF faculty in 
1985, when using overhead projec-tors was favored over chalkboards.
“It saved a lot of time,” Tornwall 
said. When Tornwall ﬁ  rst arrived at 
UF, she would use two projectors at once to let students catch up on writ-ing down problems while moving on to the next one.
But Tornwall said using overhead 
projectors came with complications.  
For one thing, Tornwall said, the 
clear sheets were green-tinted, which bothered her vision. The sheets also needed to be wiped down after be-ing used — something Tornwall was often left to do.
Tornwall said the document cam-
era allowed for professors to write on a regular sheet of paper with a pen.
Five years ago, Tornwall began 
using a document camera, abandon-ing the overhead projector altogeth-er.
In math, you need to see each 
step as it’s written out and where it comes from, Tornwall said. She said she’s happy with the document cam-era.
In her lectures in Carleton Audi-
torium, where the document camera projects on three screens, the over-head projector sits quietly in the cor-ner, outdated and overpowered.
Overhead projectors becoming obsolete, but still in useGainesville Throwbacks
6/1/1973: The Florida Supreme Court rules that sod-
omy is punishable under a law forbidding an “unnatu-ral and lascivious act. ”  Justice James Adkins prefaces 
the ruling by stating a difference between the current 
sodomy law versus an older crime-against-nature act. “Abominable and detestable is unconstitutionally vague, but unnatural and lascivious is not. ” The court ruling 
upholds a 60-day jail sentence for two Miami men who 
were caught performing an “unnatural and lascivious act” in the backseat of a car parked in a warehouse area.
6/3/1973: Six Chinese scientists visit Gainesville to re-
view research developments in insect research at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. They were accompa-
nied by two members of the Secret Service and provided with tight security. The State Department headed secu-
rity in cooperation with the Gainesville Police and UF 
Police Departments for the duration of their stay.
6/3/1976: Nineteen-year-old T erry Prennar is robbed 
by three unidentiﬁ  ed men, one of which brandished a 
nickel-plated revolver. They sought an individual named “Cindy. ” Prennar informed the men that Cindy was not at home before excusing herself and ﬂ  eeing into a separate room of the apartment. She locked the door. Meanwhile, 
the three men took $23 from the apartment and left, dropping $13 on their way out.
6/2/1988: Jessie Edmonds, 20, steals a bike from 
24-year-old Disa Rosenbloom, initiating a car chase 
starting from University Avenue and ending on South-west First Avenue. Several people from the neighbor-hood noticed the situation, knocked Edmonds off his 
bike, restrained him, disarmed him, called the police and 
helped an ofﬁ  cer restrain him again when he resisted. Edmonds was apologetic and explained he was angry because his bike was stolen.
— LAWRENCE CHANUF shortstop Richie Marin 
rounds third base and heads toward home to score the game-winning run in Florida’s 2-1 win against Florida Atlantic on Sunday. The win over the Owls clinched the Gators’ ﬁ  rst NCAA Super Regional berth since 2012, which is the last time the team reached the College World Series.
ABOVE: The Florida baseball 
team stands along the third-base line while the National Anthem plays prior to UF’s regional-opening 19-0 win against Florida A&M on Friday.
LEFT: UF senior third baseman 
Josh T obias is hit by a pitch during Florida’s 8-4 win against South Florida on Saturday. Florida batters were plunked by nine pitches during their three-games in the regional.BRING ON THE SEMINOLES
The Florida baseball team advanced to the NCAA Super Regional round for the seventh time in school 
history with a 2-1 win over Florida Atlantic on Sunday. The Gators also defeated Florida A&M on Friday, 19-0, and USF on Saturday, 8-4, to complete the sweep. Florida begins a three-game series against Florida State on Friday, with the winner of the set advancing to the College World Series. 
TOP RIGHT: UF freshman second baseman Dalton Guthrie slides back to ﬁ  rst base to avoid being tagged out during Florida’s 2-1 win against Florida Atlantic on Saturday. 
BOTTOM RIGHT: UF 
sophomore outﬁ  elder Buddy Reed makes a diving catch in center ﬁ  eld during Florida’s 19-0 win against Florida A&M on Friday. Reed was named to the All-Region team, along with catcher JJ Schwarz, outﬁ  elder Harrison Bader and designated hitter Jeremy Vasquez.UF junior outﬁ  elder Buddy Reed celebrates after hitting a home run during Florida’s 8-4 win against USF on Saturday at McKethan Stadium. The home run, Reed’s third of the season, was also UF’s ﬁ  rst hit of the game and sparked the Gators’ offense against the Bulls.PHOTOS BY ANDRES LEIVA AND NICOLE GOMEZ10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    7-2-15-36-1
UNIVERSTIY COMMONS Across campus. Best deal in town. 1 room avail 6/1, $325/mo. 1 room avail (luxury room) 8/1, $350/mo. Utils, wi-fi & cable incl. #1 location for bus rte. Resort-style living & amenities. Beautifully furn'd. Ladies only. Call Belle 352-328-2477    6-11-1 1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    6-18-15-57-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1600/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    6-4-15-39-2
Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com    6-9-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   6-18-15-20-2
**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
1, 2, 3 and 4 bedroom houses & apart-ments available for August. All near UF and Downtown. * CALL 870-2760 *    7-2-15-16-2
Half Block to UF - Extra nice!
$1515/mo, Aug 1st. 3BR apts - Great for groups, 4 avail in quad, 1227 SW 4th Ave. A1 cond, parking & extras incl.  352-514-5060    6-4-15-9-2Apt for rent. Near Shands. 3300 SW 23rd St, Apt #2. 1BR/1BA w/ large screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. $545/mo + $700 sec. Pets ok. 352-371-3473, leave message.   6-4-15-8-2
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATIONFall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2
TEN BEDROOM HOUSE!! Live with nine of your friends but don't be responsible for their rent! Double living rooms, washer/dryer sets and fridges! Lots of off street parking and walk to campus, completely renovated in fall 2014, this house is AMAZING! Call Campus Realty 352-692-3800    6-30-15-11-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of 
parking!      $700/mo. 352-505-5049
www.crosskeysproperties.com    6-4-15-4-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, hardwood floors, W/D
$650-$775 352-505-5049     6-4-15-4-2
3 Bedroom, 2 bath home for rent. 7 blocks 
north of University. Carport, huge veranda, front porch. 1526 NW 7th Place. Available August 1. 407-496-5394    6-4-4-2
VINTAGE 2BR/2BA HOME, quiet area, bike to UF/Downtown, wood floors, high ceilings, fireplace, screened porch, breakfast nook. $1280 Call/text: 352-575-4395Email: 828@cozygator.com   6-4-15-3-2
Large House Nice 6BR 4BAMust See Walk to UF & Stadiums+ Bonus efficiency 1BR 1BA KitchenetteBig Yard & Lots of Parking $2,850moPerfect for students or large familyAvail July 20 (352)256-3323    6-16-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
For Sale 3 BR 2 Bath. 7 blocks north of University. Carport, huge veranda, front porch. 1526 NW 7th Place. Contact Graham, 352-215-9900    6-4-4-5
Casablanca West, 3bed, 2&1/2 ba  townhse. Corner, steps to bus. 2012 new Trane A/C. Move in ready. Call but need to hurry. $74,900. Irene Larsson RE Services - 352-373-2605, 352-538-1218.    6-4-15-2-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished 4 Roommates 6 Furnishings12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015
8-17-15-25-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31918-17-25-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-17-25-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
5-14-14-25-13 This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, Fl
Cook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales 
staff in outside newspaper advertising 
sales. Motivator needed who works well 
with a constantly changing staff. Duties 
include training university students in 
outside newspaper sales, layout and copy 
writing. Must work well within and meet 
daily deadlines. Good organizational skills 
a must. Newspaper ad sales background 
an advantage. Modest salary, good benefits 
and excellent working environment. With 
resume, send cover letter that must include 
salary requirements, to: General Manager, 
The Independent Florida Alligator, P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, FL 32604 or email to 
tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
Alarm dispatcher neededpart-time weeknights/weekends. Must be able to pass a background check. Email resume to applications@cpss.net    7-2-15-14-14
MEDICAL ASSISTANT needed for busy Dermatology office. Full Time with benefits or part time. Experience desired. Ideal for pre-med, nursing and allied health student. Min. one year commitment. Respond to ofmgrbeers@aol.com    6-11-15-10-14
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13 
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And 
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled  
$8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
6-2-15-14-14
GESTATIONAL SURROGATE
1 yr room & board + $500/mo + health ins.   
Prefer 20-38 Healthy + had at least 1  baby. 
Open to offers. TEXT ONLY-305 582 9800   
7-9-15-14-14
DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, withgood customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
PART TIME SOCCER COACH wanted this 
summer for 8 year old boy and 6 year old girl. $30/hr plus $15 for each hour after first. Experience. Email resume and references to: rosenson@ufl.edu.    6-11-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-14-25-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-
25-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service
24 hrs a day. Reservations available.
Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-16-173-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!
Rated 5-Star on Google Play!
Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 23 RidesTUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
The Florida men's golf team 
started strong at the NCAA Championship, but faded before missing the final round. Read the story on page 16. Follow us for updates
Follow @Pinakk12 and @LFT orresIII on twitter for updates on tonight'sWCWS softball match between Florida and Michigan on ESPN. 
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
On softball’s biggest stage, Flori-
da leaned on the nation’s best player 
— Lauren Haeger.
In her first at-bat, Haeger saw 12 
pitches from Michigan pitcher Me-gan Betsa, fighting off the last seven before waiting on a knee-high off-
speed pitch and depositing it into the 
left field stands to give the Gators a 2-0 lead in the first inning.
Behind Haeger’s bat, the No. 
1 Gators downed the No. 3 Wol-
verines 3-2 in the first game of the 
NCAA Women’s College World Se-ries Championship Series Monday night at ASA Hall of Fame Stadium 
in Oklahoma City.
Florida is now just one win away 
from winning its second-consecutive 
championship and second in school history.
Haeger’s first-inning homer was 
her third of the WCWS and 19th of the season. The senior finished the game 2-for-3 with three RBI.
In the third inning, Haeger struck 
again for a run.
After Nicole DeWitt blooped a 
single to shallow centerfield, Haeger cranked an outside fastball to the 
gap in right-center field that scored 
DeWitt from first.
DeWitt finished the game 1-for-3, 
scoring what would be the game-
winning run.
Through five innings, UF starting pitcher Aleshia Ocasio had Michigan hitters on their heels. She allowed 
three hits and no runs during that span.
“She really comes in and just 
throws different pitches at different speeds, same pitches [at] different speeds,” coach Tim Walton said. 
“I thought that was the key. She 
just kept them a little bit off-bal-ance.”
But in the sixth inning, the Wol-
verines gained their balance against Ocasio.
Ocasio allowed a single to Kelsey 
Susalla and hit Lauren Sweet with a pitch to lead off the frame.
Two batters later, Ocasio walked 
a batter to load the bases before the No. 9 hitter Abby Ramirez singled up the middle to score two runs and 
cut Florida’s lead to 3-2.
In the seventh inning, Florida 
(59-6) called upon the services of 
Delanie Gourley to close out the 
game.
Gourley, who hadn’t pitched 
since Florida’s 2-1 loss to Tennes-
see in the Southeastern Conference Tournament, looked rusty but got the job done.
The sophomore walked Sierra 
Romero to begin the inning. Then Gourley surrendered a single to Kelly Christner to set up Michigan (59-7) 
with runners on first and third with 
no outs.
Gourley stayed poised though, in-
ducing a fielder’s choice ground ball to shortstop Kathlyn Medina that 
Romero didn’t score from third on.
Then, after Gourley struck out 
Sweet, she got Lindsay Montema-
rano to roll over and ground out to 
Medina to shut the door.
Ocasio, who last pitched on 
May 15 in a 6-0 win over Florida 
A&M and hadn’t seen action in the circle in Florida’s last seven games, 
stepped up big for the Gators.
The St. Cloud native earned the 
win, tossing six innings while allow-
ing two earned runs. Though she 
had never pitched in the WCWS, she 
looked composed.
“Well I was a little nervous, but 
this is what I came here for,” Ocasio said. “I was ready.”
Ocasio is now 3-0 against Michi-
gan this year. 
She’s allowed just nine hits and 
two earned runs in 17 total innings 
against the Wolverines, striking out 
15.
Florida now has the edge over 
Michigan, as they just need to win one of the next two matchups. Both 
teams will square off again for game 
two tonight at 8. 
A television broadcast contribut-
ed to this report.
Did you know?
Delanie Gourley recorded her fifth save in UF's 3-2 win against Michigan 
on Monday, which ties her with Hannah Rogers and Stacey Nelson for most saves in a single season. By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
Only two players on Florida’s roster have 
been where the Gators are going this week-
end, a testament to how difficult it is to still 
be playing baseball in early June.
Senior Bobby Poyner knew this when he 
met with the media following Florida’s 2-1 win over Florida Atlantic on Sunday. 
His last and only time advancing past the 
Regional round was in 2012, when nearly 
one-third of Florida’s current roster were sophomores in high school.
“I remember it pretty well. I hit a lefty (bat-ter) in the back with a slider,” Poyner said jokingly.
Poyner and fellow senior Josh Tobias are 
the only two players remaining from that team. Now, Florida has its best shot of ad-vancing to the College World Series since 
both were freshmen.
“These things are hard to win,” coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan said. “These Regionals, you 
know, you stay up late this time of year and 
you get to bed at three o’clock in the morn-
ing. You’re watching games and how pres-sure packed they are.
“The goal of getting to Omaha is real, and 
every team wants to get there so badly.”
On Friday, when No. 4-seed Florida (47-16) faces Florida State (44-19) in a best-of-three series to determine who advances to the 
CWS, it will represent Tobias and Poyner’s 
last chance at a national championship.
But for Florida’s new crop of standouts, 
most notably freshmen Mike 
Rivera, Dal-
ton Guthrie and Gainesville Re-
gional MVP JJ Schwarz, it will be their first 
trip of what they hope will be several.
Despite their postseason inexperience at 
the collegiate level, Florida’s trio of starting 
freshmen is far from unaccustomed to the bright lights. Rivera and Guthrie won back-
to-back state championships as teammates in 
high school, and Schwarz led his team to a district championship as a senior.Additionally, UF’s youngest players have 
proven to be clutch. Rivera hit a game-win-
ning home run in the Southeastern Confer-
ence Tournament semifinal, and Schwarz has compiled a .531 batting average and 12 RBI’s in his first postseason.
“I think the older guys are hungry to get 
back to playing well in the postseason,” Poyner said. “. …but I think the incoming freshmen, enough can’t be said about how well those guys have contributed to this 
team.”
While Florida will be relying heavily on 
players such as Harrison Bader, Richie Mar-
tin, Tobias and its entire pitching staff, UF’s youngest contributors have proven one thing 
over the course of the postseason: they are 
equally as vital, if not more so, to Florida’s success.Gators looking to stay hot heading into Super RegionalsAP Photo
Lauren Haeger celebrates on the way home after hitting a home run in the first inning of UF's 3-2 win 
against Michigan in Game 1 of the Women's College World Series Championship in Oklahoma City.
WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
Florida downs Michigan in first game of WCWS Final
UF faces FSU on Friday 
BASEBALLTUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
TRACK AND FIELD
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13       
Following a successful week-
end at the NCAA East Preliminar-
ies in Jacksonville, the No. 1/6 
Florida men’s and women’s track 
and ﬁ  eld team qualiﬁ  ed 23 ath-letes and secured 25 event entries for the NCAA Outdoor Champion-
ships in Eugene, Oregon.
The qualifying athletes — en-
compassing more than half of the 
36 Florida athletes entering the weekend — include 10 men and 
nine women competing individu-
ally.
Two seniors lead the way for 
both sides.
“We had a very impressive 
day and I really felt like we did a much better job of matching the intensity of the other teams com-peting,” UF track and ﬁ  eld coach 
Mike Holloway said in a release 
on Saturday. “We had great hur-dle races from Bridgette (Owens) and Yanick (Hart) — everyone 
that went to the line did a great 
job.”
For Holloway’s men, the 
squad’s season-long leader, Mar-quis Dendy, stood out as the lone 
Gator to qualify for two individ-
ual NCAA Championship events. 
The jumper won both the high 
jump and triple jump events, 
breaking the Hodges Stadium fa-
cility record in the former with an 8.05-meter leap.
Dendy is looking to complete a 
national and conference sweep in 
both events.
Sprinter Kyra Jefferson high-lighted the women’s weekend 
with a ﬁ  rst-place ﬁ  nish in the 
200-meter sprint quarterﬁ  nals.
 The 22.26-second effort broke 
the school record and set the 
eighth-best mark in collegiate his-
tory.
Jefferson also took part in the 
4x100 quartet that set the facility 
record in the event on its way to qualifying for a spot in Eugene. 
Jefferson, Robin Reynolds, 
Shayla Sanders and Destinee Gause were able to take ﬁ  rst place in the 4x1 with a 42.93-second ﬁ  nish.
The men’s mid distance duo of 
Andres Arroyo and Ryan Schnulle continued its dominance of the 800-meter race over the weekend. 
With each coming off top-ﬁ  ve 
ﬁ  nishes in the Southeastern Con-ference Outdoor 800, both quali-ﬁ  ed for the NCAA Outdoors with respective eighth and 11th-place ﬁ  nishes.
Schnulle is on a quest to im-
prove on last year’s second-place ﬁ  nish in the national outdoor meet and win the 800 outdoor title — adding to an impressive year that saw him take the SEC 
indoor title.
The sophomore Arroyo is 
looking to do the same. In 2014, 
the Orlando native followed up 
a 1:47.90 time in the East Pre-
liminaries to clinch a spot in the NCAAs with a 1:51.02 in the ﬁ  nal outdoor collegiate meet, en route to a 21st-place ﬁ  nish.
Holloway gave credit for the 
success experienced over the weekend to the team’s seniors. 
“The key to being successful at any level with any group, no mat-ter the team, is you have to have 
leadership,” Holloway said.
“They (UF seniors) know what 
to do and expect and that makes 
it easier for them to have a calm-
ing effect on everyone.”
A prime example of this can be 
seen in the case of men’s sprinters 
Arman Hall and Antwan Wright.
While neither were able to 
clinch spots in the Oregon meet as individuals, Hall and Wright did their parts to help UF’s relay teams qualify for the champion-
ship meet.
Hall took part in both the 4x1 
and 4x400 relay races — with 
both foursomes sealing a national championship spot. Wright made 
up a quarter of UF’s Eugene-
bound 4x1 squad.
Florida will begin its national 
title meet on June 10 at Historic 
Hayward Field in Eugene, hosted 
by the University of Oregon. UF qualiﬁ  es 23 athletes for NCAA Outdoor Championships
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Ryan Schnulle races during the final day of the Florida Relays on April 4 at the Percy Beard Track 
in Gainesville. 
NCAA CHAMPIONSHIPS 
June 10-13
Eugene, Oregon
Florida men’s 
athletes competing: 
12
Florida women’s 
athletes competing: 
11
Overall events: 
2516   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2015
SOFTBALL
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
The opening round for the Flor-
ida men’s golf team at the NCAA 
Men’s Golf Championship Friday in Bradenton had them tied for sixth place.When the team returned to the 
course to ﬁ  nish the weekend, their 
low scores didn’t make the trip.
After shooting 5-over-par in 
Round 1, the Gators shot 21-over 
and 20-over-par in the ensuing rounds failing to make the tourna-ment cut.
The top-15 teams make the 
fourth round of the NCAA Cham-pionships,  and after Round 3, the Gators ﬁ  nished tied for 28th.
“It was a tough week and obvi-
ously not the way the team wanted to ﬁ  nish,” coach JC Deacon said in a release. “It hurts to shoot scores like that, but I think when you look back on how far we’ve come in the last year. We got the chance to play in a national championship. Ryan Orr and Ryan Celano, the young 
guys, got to see what it’s all about 
and hopefully this leaves them re-ally hungry going forward.”
Orr was the bright spot for 
the Gators through the ﬁ  rst three rounds and was the only Gator to qualify for Round 4. Orr played in-dividually in the ﬁ  nal round for the Gators after shooting 2-over-par 
through three rounds.
“I ended up walking around 
with him today and got to see him 
play the whole 
round,” Dea-con said of Orr after Round 3. “He played with the No. 1 player 
in college golf, 
John Rahm, and he’s right there 
with him. He’s hitting the ball un-believable, and his poise is beyond his years.”
The scores increased daily for 
the Gators and led to an ousting after their short stint in the ﬁ  nal 
tournament.
Seniors J.D. Tomlinson and 
Eric Banks both ﬁ  nished their ﬁ  nal 
tournaments as Gators at 15-over-par.
Tomlinson’s 15-over-par perfor-
mance marked the ﬁ  rst tournament where he didn’t place in the top-25.
Celano and junior A.J. Crouch 
rounded out the ﬁ  ve for the Gators shooting 18-over-par for the tour-nament.
Deacon thinks that the score 
plummeted in Round 2 due to lack of preparation on behalf of the coaching staff, but is optimistic that it won’t happen again.
“It’s my fault, and I’ll learn, be-
ing a ﬁ  rst-year head coach,” Dea-con said. “We’ll get better, but to-day’s deﬁ  nitely on me.”UF squanders early lead at NCAAs
Alligator File Photo
Ryan Orr swings during Day 1 of the SunTrust Gator Invitational on 
Feb. 14 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
The Florida softball team is on 
the cusp of making history.
With its 3-2 win over Michigan 
on Monday night, the Gators are 
now one win away from winning 
back-to-back national titles.
It’s an accomplishment that’s 
been done by only two teams in 
the 33-year history of the Wom-en’s College World Series.
UCLA has done it three sepa-
rate times, with the ﬁ  rst repeat coming in 1984-85. 
The Bruins would go on to win 
three-straight national titles from 1988-1990, but they would have to wait 14 years before its third back-to-back.
Sharon Backus won eight na-
tional titles as coach of UCLA, leading the Bruins to two of their three back-to-back titles, with Sue Enquist being UCLA’s next coach 
to win consecutive champion-
ships.
Arizona is the other team that’s 
won two straight national titles in the WCWS, and the Wildcats have also done it three times — in 1993-94, 1996-97 and 2006-07.
Mike Candrea was the coach 
for Arizona when they won their 
titles, and he’s also won a total of 
eight national titles, joining Back-us for the most in NCAA history.
A second national title in as 
many years would put Florida coach Tim Walton among some of the greatest coaches in softball history.
With a win tonight or Wednes-
day over Michigan, Walton will not only stand side-by-side with those three, but also alongside a couple of former UF coaches who won back-to-back national titles at Florida: Billy Donovan and Urban Meyer.
Walton was able to seek the advice of one of them, Dono-van, when the former Florida 
men’s basketball coach was in 
Gainesville. 
With the team competing in 
Oklahoma City, where Donovan 
is now coach of the NBA’s Oklahoma  City Thunder, 
Walton and 
the Gators re-
ceived a visit from the former UF coach on Wednesday. 
They haven’t lost since. “I did lean on Billy and Urban 
and some other friends that I’ve been around who’ve been suc-
cessful coaches,” Walton said. 
“This wasn’t easier, but it was a lot easier to understand mistakes because you understand what the ﬁ  nish product can look like.”
Donovan built a reputation in 
Gainesville of pushing his players — something Walton has done with his tremendous work ethic 
that he applies in practice.
But Walton said he had the 
tendency of being too hard on his 
players, and he had to pull back on the reins.
“Billy and I are very similar 
in that we want to work and we want to push them,” Walton said. “He said the biggest mistake that 
he potentially could’ve made is to 
push them too hard thinking ev-erybody was going to give them their best shot.
“And he said he backed off, 
and from that they really took off once he trusted what they did to prepare. And I trust what these guys do to prepare.”    
Walton will have the chance to 
join elite company as the UF soft-ball team chases history tonight at 8 on ESPN.
A GatorZone video contributed 
to this report.  Tim Walton a win 
away from history
Walton
MEN’S
GOLF