We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 58 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015
Florida soccer opens NCAA 
Tournament action Saturday
The Gators will host Western Michigan, 
pg. 14 
Cancer patients share stories through photos
The gallery was for Pancreatic Cancer Awareness Month, pg. 3
Encouraging women through artwork
It will focus mainly on Asian American women, pg. 5Stay connected with the Alligator
Be sure to “Like” us on Facebook and follow uson Twitter (@TheAlligator) and Instagram(@TheAlligator_)
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
ZEN CONNECTION
Kitty McGnarls holds her 8-month-old son, Astraeus, in their room at The Zen Center and Hostel while 
talking with Karrie Ford, another resident, on Nov. 4. McGnarls moved there from New York in search of a deeper community connection than what she saw in most of society. She gave birth to Astraeus in the room next door. “Now I have a zen baby, ” she said. See the full photo story on pages 8 and 9.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Accent Speaker’s Bureau’s an-
nouncement about Rev. Al Sharpton 
coming to UF was met with controversy Thursday.
Accent will be holding “A Conversa-
tion on Policing, Gun Violence, and Civ-il Rights” with Sharpton, a civil rights leader, and Raymond Kelly, a former New York City police commissioner, at 8 p.m. Tuesday at the Phillips Center 
for the Performing Arts. The two will be 
paid $60,000 combined to speak, said Kevin Gerson, Accent chairman.
When UF shared the event on its 
Facebook page, more than 100 people 
commented as of press time, with many 
expressing their anger that Sharpton would be on campus. Michael Rosselli, a UF philosophy senior, commented that Sharpton shouldn’t be coming to campus.
Rosselli, 21, said Sharpton has a rep-
utation for saying provocative things.
For example, Sharpton has made de-
rogatory comments about white, Mor-mon and Jewish people.
He said Sharpton shouldn’t be called 
a civil rights leader.
“It’s kind of insulting to other civil 
rights leaders,” he said.
Gerson said Accent tries to bring prominent, inﬂ  uential and controver-sial speakers to UF.
“We look forward to the opportunity 
to continue forging a conversation,” the 21-year-old said.
UF journalism and political science 
junior Alex Sargent said he will be at-tending the event and is looking for-ward to hearing two speakers who will present students with different opin-ions.
“I think they bring very good per-
spective on the issue,” the 20-year-old said.Accent speaker Al Sharpton sparks controversy
Kelly
Sharpton
CAMPUS
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
Timothy Hooker stood on the 
Plaza of the Americas with a sign 
that read, “My only sex life is 
getting f----d by student loans.”
The 29-year-old UF history 
junior said he will owe about 
$75,000 in student-loan debt 
when he graduates. And that will 
make it difﬁ  cult to care for his son and ﬁ  ancee.
He was joined by about a doz-
en other sign-waving students 
and Gainesville locals.
Throughout college campuses 
Thursday, the Million Student 
March was in full swing.
From New York to California, 
college students protested high tuition fees, the haunting of loan debt and the low-wage jobs of-fered to them when they leave school.
Hooker said two-member 
families cannot survive on the 
current minimum wage of $8.05 
per hour without working 89 hours per week. And with ris-ing tuition costs and loans to stress over, he thinks students 
are some of the most vulnerable 
members of society.
“In my lifetime, college tu-
itions have increased 500 per-
cent, and the minimum wage 
hasn’t gone up 50 percent,” he said. “I don’t see why we should advocate for people to live in poverty.”
In Gainesville, the march be-
gan on the Plaza before heading down Union Drive to the steps of the administration building, 
Tigert Hall. Students protest high 
tuition at Tigert Hall 
STAFF REPORT
Editor’s note: For an accompanying 
editorial, visit page 6. 
As Sam Book was being sworn in as UF 
Student Government supervisor of elections, 
he was also under investigation for sexually assaulting a fellow student.According to a narrative provided to the 
Alachua County Court as part of a petition for an injunction for protection against Book, he was found responsible for violating the Stu-dent Conduct Code on four counts of sexual assault and providing alcohol to a minor on Sept. 3.
He then stepped down from his position 
on Sept. 25 before withdrawing from the uni-versity on Oct. 23.Outside of the narrative, no one from the 
university could conﬁ  rm the investigation or a verdict due to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, which protects the privacy of students’ educational records.
Janine Sikes, a spokeswoman for UF, con-
ﬁ  rmed Book’s withdrawal from the university in an email Oct. 29, but Sikes could not dis-
close if Book was found responsible and sub-
sequently suspended.Under FERPA, the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce 
also couldn’t comment on Books’ case.
During the ongoing investigation, which 
began in Spring, Book, then a 19-year-old po-litical science sophomore, was approved as UF supervisor of elections on Aug. 25 by Stu-dent Government. He resigned from his posi-tion Sept. 25, citing family issues in an email 
Former SG supervisor of elections investigated, leaves UF
SEE INVESTIGATION,  PAGE 4SEE MARCH,  PAGE 4He’s coming to UF TuesdaySubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Diwali Celebration at Krishna 
House
Come and attend this week’s Friday Program at Krishna House to celebrate Diwali. The program 
starts at 7 p.m. with mantra med-
itation followed by a ghee lamp offering and firecracker show. There will be a free feast (din-ner) served at 8:15 p.m. Make every week complete with eternal knowledge by attending a Friday Program at Krishna House. No registration required. Please join 
at Krishna House, located at 214 
NW 14th St.
Remote Area Medical movie
What do people do if they need medical, dental or visual treat-ment and have no insurance?  If they are lucky, they can go to a Remote Area Medical event. The 
highly praised “Remote Area 
Medical” movie shows one such event in Tennessee. Screening at the Civic Media Center, 433 S. Main St., will be Monday at 7 p.m. with a $3 to $5 suggested donation. The event is sponsored by the Alachua County Labor Coalition.
Café Cultural: Your Culture, Your 
Health!On Monday, UF Hispanic-Latino Affairs and Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs will collabo-rate to present “Café Cultural: Your Culture, Your Health!” The health-disparities-focused event 
will be both interactive and in-
formative with help from the Culinary Arts Student Union and U Matter, We Care ambassadors. Come out to enjoy free food at La Casita and learn how to ad-dress health disparities while remaining true to your culture. Also, make sure to avoid the $15 
fee at the Student Health Care 
Center and take advantage of free HIV and STD testing provided by the Alachua County Health Department from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m.
Arabian Nights at GatorNights
Visit the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom from 8 p.m. to midnight 
today for a taste of Arabian culture 
as the Arab Students’ Association partners with GatorNights to bring you an Arabian Nights ex-perience. Get a free henna tattoo, 
learn Arabic calligraphy, try on 
ethnic clothes at a photobooth and enjoy dabke bellydance per-formances and other activities.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 58
HIGH  79° LOW  49°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. By Monica Andrade
Alligator Contributing Writer
As a piano played softly in 
the background at the UF Health 
Shands Cancer Hospital on Thurs-
day night, Ellen Waugerman re-
ﬂ  ected on her photographs of the moon, a rainbow and a ﬁ  rework.
“I like anything with light,” 
the 68-year-old Hawthorne local said.
Waugerman, who was diag-
nosed with pancreatic cancer in February 2010, shared her art-
work with about 45 people who 
attended “Gallery of Hope.” 
The gallery was the ﬁ  rst of its 
kind, and it educated attendees 
about Pancreatic Cancer Aware-
ness Month.
The exhibit featured 35 photos 
from 10 UF Health pancreatic-cancer survivors and six caregiv-
ers as part of “Assessing the Ben-
eﬁ  ts of PhotoVoice in Pancreatic Cancer,” a research study led by UF researcher Shan Wong.
Throughout the yearlong study, survivors and caregivers told their stories through photo-
graphs, said Wong, a UF clinical 
and health psychology graduate student.
“The pictures help them 
express their emotions,” the 
27-year-old said. “It’s kind of like 
reliving their experiences but in a very therapeutic way.”
Waugerman is a survivor.Within three years, she was di-
agnosed with colon and lung can-cer, in addition to her pancreatic 
cancer.
The doctors think she’s cured, 
but every three months she said 
she has to do a CAT scan to make sure nothing has changed.
But she’s optimistic about the 
future, she said. Through her photos, she’s been able to get away from the feeling of having 
nothing.
“Things are looking up,” 
Waugerman said.
Jupiter native and carpenter 
Chuck Henderson also survived pancreatic cancer, and his photo 
series was featured at the exhibit. He was treated at UF, and he said his tumor went from the size of a 
silver dollar to a small pea.
“I never looked at it like a 
death sentence,” the 53-year-old 
said. “I looked at it as another bump in the road.”
He said his photo series, which 
featured a vase of dying tulips coming back to life, shows how UF doctors helped him heal.
Kristen Henderson, Chuck 
Henderson’s daughter, said her father’s photos showed how he felt through the experience.
“It’s made our family grow a 
lot and made me appreciate my dad a lot more,” the 19-year-old UF nursing freshman said.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
LOCAL
By Genesis Calo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Next to the planes and luggage at the 
Gainesville Regional Airport on Saturday will 
be the greatest garage sale in Gainesville.
The fourth annual fundraiser, hosted by the 
airport for March of Dimes, will allow locals to buy and sell their household possessions on the southeast ﬁ  eld of the airport property. This year, organizers hope to break their previous record and raise more than $28,000 for March of Dimes, a charity that raises money to help children born prematurely.
“They have a great operation here in town, 
so it’s wonderful to partner with them and give back to the community during their event,” said Laura Aguiar, the airport’s manager of public relations and government affairs, add-ing that the event replaced a chili cook-off four years ago in order to attract more people.
The garage sale will last from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m., and all items are welcome — except homemade baked goods. 
Aguiar estimated at least a few thousand 
people come every year.
As part of the fundraiser, individuals rent a 
spot of land to set up their garage sales for $15 or $20, depending on registration time. 
While all proceeds from the rental fees will 
go to March of Dimes, individuals will be able to proﬁ  t from the items they sell.
Tammy Dygert, the March of Dimes North Central Florida division operations coordina-tor, said she believes this fundraiser will be able to help the local community as well as people all over the U.S.
“(The money) is raised on the local lev-
el, and it helps everyone across the nation,” Dygert said. “Even if there is a baby born in Wisconsin prematurely, they would be able to get the therapy that they need, so our cause is national. It’s not just the money raised here stays here, it helps people all over.”
Garage sale returns to Gainesville airport SaturdayRoyce Abela / Alligator
Photographs taken by UF Health pancreatic-cancer survivors and caregivers line windows at the Marshall M. and Paula P . Cri-ser Jr. Cancer Resource Center located in the UF Health Shands Cancer Hospital on Thursday.
Cancer patients share stories through photos
“It’s kind of like reliving their 
experiences but in a therapeutic 
way.”
Shan Wong
UF clinical and health 
psychology graduate studentThe clamoring protesters positioned 
themselves in front of the steps leading to 
the main entrance, where they believed UF 
President Kent Fuchs would be. 
They vowed to remain until someone 
came out and acknowledged them, but 
Fuchs was out of town.
In his place, UF spokesman Steve Or-
lando came out to meet with the protesters. 
He fielded the group’s questions and told 
them UF doesn’t dictate how much money students pay for tuition. The Florida Legis-
lature does.
But Orlando was still attentive to the 
plight of the protest and stayed with the 
group of students until every question was 
answered.
Passerby Aaron Lind, a UF fifth-year materials science and engineering graduate 
student, said he thought the protesters’ de-mands were farfetched and uncompromis-ing.
The 28-year-old said he was reminded of 
something his economics professor taught him five years ago: “There’s no such thing as a free lunch. At the end of the day, it has to cost someone something.”
Eventually, Orlando and the protesters 
agreed to work together in the future to reach some sort of compromise. 
At about 2 p.m., for the first time all day, 
the protesters clapped in affirmation. 
They won a small battle.“It’s important to have these conversa-
tions,” Orlando said afterward. “If they have concerns and worries, we want to hear 
about them, and we know that rising col-
lege costs are a concern for a lot of people.” 4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF spokesman Steve Orlando (left) addresses about a dozen protesters participating 
MARCH,  from pg1Florida legislature dictates tuitionIT WILL BE USED DURING GRACE 
MARKETPLACE’S DAY OF GRACE.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
A former mayor and a smashed bottle of 
champagne will christen a new kitchen for the 
homeless at Grace Marketplace this weekend.
The city-owned homeless shelter, located 
at 3055 NE 28th Drive, will serve its first meal 
in the new kitchen during its second annual 
Day of Grace event, an open house and fund-raiser with free food and live music.
Former Gainesville Mayor Pegeen Hanrah-
an and former Alachua County Commissioner Rodney Long  will lead the event and christen the new kitchen with the smashing of a cham-pagne bottle. In 2005, the two were the driv-ing forces behind a 10-year plan to alleviate 
homelessness in Gainesville.
“Here they are 10 years later, and we have 
this amazing campus here,” said Randi Cam-
eon, president of the Friends of Grace Market-place. The nonprofit organization serves as the advertising and fundraising partner of the shelter and will host the event Saturday.
The kitchen will be named Cafe 131 in the spirit of an old city stipulation that prohibited soup kitchens from serving more than 130 
meals per day. It will be dedicated to the late 
Pat Fitzpatrick, an outspoken activist for the homeless.
“Everyone above 130 should be fed,” Cam-
eon said. “That’s a really special aspect of it.”
As of now, Grace Marketplace heavily re-
lies on outside donations to feed its residents twice a day, said Theresa Lowe, executive di-rector of the Alachua County Coalition for the 
Homeless and Hungry.
The new kitchen, which is installed with 
fryers, grills, stoves, ovens and a 40-gallon 
tilting kettle, will provide more stability and flexibility to the meal options, Lowe said. It has the capacity to feed 500 people.
“It’s the kind of equipment we need to pre-
pare a great many meals every day,” she said.
Donations will be accepted at the event, 
which will feature live music, tree planting, a free lunch and a tour of the facility. Local band Weeds of Eden will perform, and chef Bert Gill of Blue Gill Quality Foods restaurant will be cooking a meal in the new kitchen.
Lowe said it’s necessary for the commu-
nity to come together to help the homeless.
“We want people to see that Grace is part 
of a bigger continuum of care,” she said. A new kitchen for Grace 
By Krystalle Pinilla
Alligator Contributing Writer
With the Gators headed to Atlanta for 
the Southeastern Conference Championship Game, Gator-themed gear is more popular than ever before.
“We already have Eastern Division cham-
pionship T-shirts coming in,” said Christina Rodenwoldt, manager of Gators Plus, an ap-parel and souvenir shop near campus. “With the Gators doing so well and sales being great, we will probably have some specials going on a little closer to Christmas.”
Rodenwoldt’s family has owned Gators 
Plus for 31 years, and she said this might be one of the best sales seasons yet. She said she 
thinks it’ll probably roll over to the spring sea-
son.
“It was pretty depressing with our record 
last year,” Rodenwoldt said. “Unfortunately, the momentum kind of goes into the following season like basketball and other sports. When it’s an exciting football year, we definitely do better. This year is already so much better.”
Other establishments are also preparing for the increase in sales and competition.
Copper Monkey is preparing for more 
alumni to come back to The Swamp.
“We’re doing $7 pitchers of Rolling Rock 
and $4 Captain Morgan beverages to attract more people over other restaurants,” said Anna Raughley, a Copper Monkey employee.
Andria Lask, a UF telecommunication se-
nior, said she’s noticed the difference this year too.
“In the beginning of the season we weren’t 
doing much better than last year, just because 
people weren’t sure if we were going to be 
good or not,” the 22-year-old said. “But there has been a huge difference as people noticed 
how good the season’s going. Sales have defi-
nitely gone up.”
Lask, who has worked at The Swamp Res-
taurant for the past two years, said a lot of changes are coming as the restaurant works on attracting undergraduate students. A stu-dent menu is in the works.
“I can’t even imagine how it’s going to 
be if we win,” Lask said. “We’re excited, but 
we’re also trying to prepare for it.”  Gator gear more popular 
with football team success
interview Sept. 28. Erica Baker was 
appointed as the new UF supervisor of elections.
Book was previously appointed 
to the Judiciary Committee as an 
assistant supervisor of elections on 
Aug. 26, 2014.
SG does not look at pending in-
vestigations involving students who are applying for SG positions, said James Tyger, the associate direc-tor for SG advising and operations. Tyger declined to comment why SG does not look into pending investi-
gations.
“We will verify that they are free 
of conduct probation,” he said.
Tyger refused to answer any 
more questions, including why SG 
does not look at ongoing investiga-tions, whether he knew there was an ongoing investigation with Book 
and whether UF Student Senate 
would have been informed of the investigation.
Book and his 
attorney, Steve Rosso, declined to comment.
A UF student 
submitted a Title 
IX incident report 
form with the UF Student Conduct and Conflict Res-
olution office after attending an Al-pha Epsilon Pi Fraternity function in April, according to Alachua County court records. Book was a member of the fraternity at the time.
Alpha Epsilon Pi President Mike 
Greenberg declined to comment on the incident or Book’s standing with the fraternity.
In the narrative, the student 
describes preparing a mixed drink with six ounces of pineapple-mango vodka, four ounces of water and 10 ounces of mango juice in a water bottle. At some point, the student accepted a beer from Book, but did not drink it. The student only ate and drank coffee, water and the previously mixed drink.
The student recalls Book plac-
ing ice in the mixed drink, but not having any other contact with the bottle. About 1:30 p.m., the student left, drank a bottle of water and returned. That is the last thing, ac-cording to the narrative, the student remembers until much later in the evening.
When the student “came to,” 
according to the narrative, it was during preparation to get ready for the function. Book later confirmed there was a sexual act in a text mes-
sage exchange provided with the 
narrative.
After experiencing pain a couple 
of days after the function, the stu-dent visited the UF infirmary, where doctors confirmed the student had been sexually assaulted. The stu-dent was given pain medication and sent to a University Police victim 
advocate. Soon after, the student 
submitted the incident report form.
After a lengthy university in-
vestigation and a panel hearing on Sept. 3, Book was found responsible for violating the Student Conduct Code, according to the narrative. The recommended sanction in-cludes suspension from UF until the 
completion of the 2020 academic 
school year, a campus-based order of “no contact” and a written essay, according to the narrative.
Book declined to participate in 
the hearing process, according to the narrative, while the student and witnesses were questioned by his lawyer. The student gave a state-ment during the hearing, describing depression, emotional and physical distress and a missed Summer se-mester because of trauma and the need for healing.
“As far as I am concerned, I 
know what you did, you know what you did and by refusing to give a statement or answer any questions, it causes further pain to me and dis-respects everyone in the room,” the student said in the final paragraph. “Your silence speaks volumes.”
A judge ruled that because crimi-
nal charges had not been filed, the student could not receive an injunc-tion. 
INVESTIGATION,  from pg1SG doesn’t look at pending investigations involving applying students
Book
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
LOCAL
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Brian Chabue and Dane Scholl were enjoy-
ing cigars and the night sky in the Gainesville 
countryside Monday when a green ﬁ  reball shot through the sky and exploded like a ﬁ  rework.
The explosion was so bright it lit up the 
Earth and night sky shortly before 10 p.m., Chabue said.
Although the 29-year-old accountant didn’t 
realize it at the time, he had just witnessed the tail end of the Taurid and the start of the Leo-nid meteor showers — a phenomenon that’s been seen worldwide.
While the Taurid meteor shower is an an-
nual event, Santa Fe College Planetarium Co-ordinator James Albury said there has been an increase in sightings this year because there’s 
no bright light from the moon outshining the 
meteors.
“Some years are better than others because 
of the moon,” Albury said. “The moon is just in a good position right now that it’s not wash-ing out anything.”He said the Taurid meteor shower is known 
for its bright ﬁ  reballs, which are meteors that glow and even explode if they get close enough to the ground.
Chabue said the meteor exploded in an 
illuminating ﬂ  ash and then ﬁ  zzled out. He thought it was a ﬁ  rework at ﬁ  rst, but ruled out 
that explanation because initially there was no 
sound. But then came two booms that rever-berated throughout the air, he said.
“It was really something to see,” Chabue 
said, adding he’s never seen anything like it in Gainesville before. On a thread Chabue posted to reddit, other users claimed to have heard and seen similar phenomenon in and near Gainesville.
Archer resident Liz Schreiber wrote in an 
email she too has heard and seen similar oc-currences at her home in the countryside west of Gainesville.
The 37-year-old said she’s used to hearing 
loud noises — gunshots, ﬁ  reworks — but the booming is “of a different quality.”
“It sounded very deep and powerful, almost 
subsonic. I could feel the vibrations coming through the Earth,” she said.
Moon takes a back seat, lets Taurid meteor shower shine
Danielle Veenstra/Alligator Staff
OCHOCINCO
Former NFL wide receiver Chad Johnson (left), also known as Ochocinco, poses with Ryan Lohan, a 19-year-
old business administration freshman, in Gannett Auditorium in Weimer Hall on Thursday. Johnson drove from Miami to speak to professor T ed Spiker’s Sports Media and Society class about how he has handled the media during his career. After, he paid for about 100 students’ lunches at The Swamp Restaurant. 
THE EVENT WILL FO-
CUS MAINL Y ON ASIAN 
AMERICAN WOMEN.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gloria Li struggled to balance 
her Asian and American identities.
“I went to Chinese school and 
learned the language my family 
speaks,” the UF biology freshman 
said. “Yet at the same time, it’s 
hard to maintain that culture in America.”
Li, 18, said she is excited to at-
tend tonight’s Women’s Empower Hour, which is hosted by UF’s Asian Paciﬁ  c Islander American Affairs. The two-day series, which starts at 5 p.m. today in the Florida 
Gym, centers around Asian Ameri-
can writer and news producer Sah-ra Vang Nguyen, who will speak to female students about their struggles surrounding gender and ethnicity. The event is funded by Multicultural and Diversity Affairs, and as of press time, the event’s cost was not disclosed. It is free and open to all students.
Event director Candice Luc,19, 
said the discussion encourages creativity among Asian American women. The UF civil engineering 
sophomore said she is looking for-
ward to the workshop on grafﬁ  ti culture, which will include a spray-painting activity in the Norman Tunnel.
“In Asian American communi-
ties, art isn’t necessarily encour-aged,” Luc said.
Li said she also feels that stig-
ma.
“I think the popular stereotype 
of Asian American women is that they are demur or complacent,” she said. “The fact that this event is meant to empower Asian Ameri-can women and explore their cre-ativity, I think it’s something new that we need.”Encouraging women 
through artworkThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Mizzou students are the crest on a wave of activism
This column concerns the events which 
transpired at the University of Missouri on Monday. No doubt you’re familiar with it already — along with the heresy of plain red cups, the Mizzou story has captured 
the country’s imagination.
Why wouldn’t it? Nothing like this has hap-
pened since the ‘70s. There have been protests, obviously, but successful protests on this scale?
As of press time, the success of #Concerned-
Student1950 has already secured itself a place in our nation’s history. With this victory, the protest movement has entrenched itself in a place of enormous potential. What happens next may very well deﬁ  ne the next generation of 
campus political activism in the shadow of an increasingly 
corporatized university model.
I celebrate the Mizzou students’ victory on several 
grounds, even if I have a few qualms about what happened.
A major thing they have in their favor is what appears to 
be a united front. This is a coalition of black student activists, professors, graduate students and student athletes who went on strike by using their labor as leverage to achieve political victory. The economic threat posed by the football team’s 
strike is probably what did Tim Wolfe in. Otherwise, this 
may have been another unanswered  cry of outrage.
It shouldn’t come as a surprise that university ofﬁ  cials are 
more invested in the well-being of the bottom line than the concerns of students or student activists. That’s one of the most annoying and troubling things about these stories from anxious writers hand-wringing over “PC culture” gone awry. Yes, so-called PC culture’s politics of Starbucks postmodern-ism is creepy and has absolutist tendencies that would seem 
more at home in the hills of Afghanistan and/or the Bible 
Belt than in left-wing campus activism. What’s truly irksome and disturbing about it is they don’t try to make changes themselves — they petition university authorities to solve their problems for them.
Such a situation exists because this is how the corpora-
tized university functions. We are not students, we are cus-tomers. It isn’t an expression of genuine sympathy when professors are denied tenure or speakers are dis-invited from campus. It’s good customer service. Campus administrators don’t accommodate stu-dent activists because they’re truly concerned for the feelings of marginalized groups. They do it to 
protect the university’s brand.
What happened at Mizzou was not a ﬁ  nal 
victory against racism and discrimination. When 
Tim Wolfe left MU, he didn’t take those problems away with him. It’s signiﬁ  cant as a ﬂ  exing of the proverbial muscle by people who have tradition-
ally been powerless; they achieved something not through university bureaucrats, but through the students’ own pow-er.
Yet, there were some signs of belligerent PC culture on 
Mizzou’s quad, namely in the activists declaring it a “safe space,” with a few of them strong-arming reporters and pho-tographers out of the area. I condemn the actions against those journalists; however, I refuse to take part in the hysteri-cal nonsense that tells us this mildly hostile incident signiﬁ  es the death of free speech and an assault on the noble and righ-teous profession of journalism. It’s clear they were only try-ing to control their own narrative and avoid getting screwed 
over by the media (looking at you, Don Lemon). Was it right? 
No. But we should cut them some slack. I believe what we’re seeing is an understandably clumsy attempt to incorporate Internet activist theory into the physical space. The professor who asked for “muscle” to get rid of a student photojournal-ist has apologized and resigned her guest position in MU’s journalism school. This is no true threat to liberty.
What we should be worried about is what the Concerned 
Student 1950 group does next. Should it submit to adminis-
trative authority once its immediate demands are met? Then 
the revolutionary potential of this action would be squan-dered. Doing that would also set a dangerous precedent; once the right wing ﬁ  nds out it, too, can petition university bureaucrats to make rules in its favor, a counter-revolution may very well ﬂ  are up, and we’ll be in for a hell of a ﬁ  ght.
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His column appears on 
Fridays. 
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.orgSexual assault 
is too prevalent on 
college campuses 
— even ours
Today, our front page story concerns the investigation of 
a sexual assault on campus. Our decision to publish this story was not made lightly, nor was it made from malice 
or a desire to set off a witch hunt. It is no secret that 
sexual assaults on college campuses are an alarming epi-
demic. Sexual assault in any form represents a grave threat to the safety — both mental and physical — of college students. Even 
though it is easy, and perhaps preferable, to act as though such 
acts of viciousness could never happen here, that is simply not the case.
In September, UF released a survey showing that nearly one 
in ﬁ  ve women attending this school has been sexually assaulted. 
Let that sink in for a moment.
The knowledge that this statistic is only slightly lower than 
the national average offers us little to no comfort. There is not a 
single individual in the Alligator ofﬁ  ce who wants to publish a 
story concerning the sexual assault of a fellow student. 
However, it is our journalistic obligation to print the truth, no 
matter how unsettling it may be.
This piece is not being published with the desire to cause 
trauma, or to discourage other survivors from coming forward and speaking up about their own experiences. Although not all 
survivors are prepared to speak, it is critical that this matter re-mains an open dialogue.
The story in this piece is not the fallout of a public ﬁ  gure, but 
the horror of the circumstances. 
As painful as it is, we as a university need to be willing to di-
rectly confront the unfortunate fact that we are no different from other universities, and sometimes, students are capable of hurt-ing one another in a profound and irrevocable manner.
If this story is generating a strong reaction from you, our read-
ers, this is a good thing: It means that something can be done to effect change. 
Resources like U Matter, We Care and the Counseling & Well-
ness Center, and UPD Victim Services are important, but they are NOT enough.
A week of sexual assault awareness is not enough. It is the 
bare minimum. The university and students need to take a proac-tive stance against sexual assault. 
As it stands, UF needs more help in confronting interpersonal 
violence and sexual assault. Although Alachua County offers a Victim Services and Rape Crisis Center, students should NOT have to venture further than their own campus to get the speciﬁ  c 
resources they need. 
It is our hope in publishing this incident that we can take the 
next step in starting a conversation, where this issue is regarded 
with the importance it merits.
As students who love and cherish UF, it is easy to fall into the 
trap of thinking: “Not us. Not here.” But yes us. And yes here.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
My worst nightmare 
came true Friday. It was about 15 minutes 
after meeting my part-
ner’s mom for the ﬁ  rst 
time. We were walking down the street to the Homecoming 
parade when someone handed 
us a copy of the Alligator.
My stress level rose. Inside 
the paper clutched by my boy-friend’s mother was an article I had writ-
ten regarding butt stuff, complete with 
a picture of me — just to really hammer down who the author was.
We went to lunch and, sitting across 
the table from me, his dad started reading the paper. My internal screaming reached a high decibel level, as it is apt to do when your partner’s parents’ ﬁ  rst impression of you is an article that includes the phrase 
“choose-your-own-asshole-adventure.”
Let me say for the sake of clarity: I am 
not ashamed of my articles. I’m really 
proud that I’m open about stuff, and I do 
enjoy writing this column. 
But, speaking with parents about sensi-
tive subjects, which sex often is, makes 
me sweat.
It’s one of the reasons I’ve never — de-
spite writing this column for ﬁ  ve semes-ters now — told my own parents what I write about.
My parents are pretty conservative 
people, and something about telling them their youngest daughter not only has sex but writes about it for thousands of read-ers sends shivers down my spine.
I don’t think it’s just me, nor do I think 
the awkwardness is solely relegated to just the child’s side of the relationship. How many of you have to stay in a sepa-rate bedroom than your partner when vis-
iting family?
It’s probably a fair number. Not nec-
essarily because your parents don’t trust 
you, but because it  may be hard for them to see their prodigy — who they’ve seen 
as young and innocent and naïve — as a 
sexual being.
I don’t think there’s anything wrong 
with not being an open book regarding 
your sex life, either. Your parents prob-ably don’t want to hear how 
many people you sleep with, just like you’d presumably like 
them to keep their sexual expe-
riences to themselves.
But, if your awkwardness 
in talking to parents or paren-
tal ﬁ  gures extends to talking to 
them when it really counts — for example, when you need to see a doctor to get birth control 
or to diagnose a sexually transmitted in-
fection — it’s gone too far. 
It might be uncomfortable, but I know 
my parents would be there if I needed 
them to be, just like any responsible 
guardian would.
A few months ago, I moved into a new 
apartment, and my parents came to help 
me. 
I thought I had cleaned thoroughly, 
but some condoms had fallen behind my nightstand and my mom found them. She didn’t say anything, and she left them out for me to grab.
I was mortiﬁ  ed, mostly because I’ve 
tried to avoid talking about sex with my parents for so long. But at least she knows I’m engaging in safe sex.
It’s deﬁ  nitely possible this means I’m 
immature. But, sex is an incredibly pri-vate and intimate thing. You probably wouldn’t talk about it with a professor or the cashier at the grocery store.
In my view, it’s OK not to talk about 
it with your parents as long as you’re en-gaging in safe and responsible sex, both parties treat the other with respect on the matter and you know you can come to 
them when it matters.
In the end, we’re adults now and we 
can make our own choices about our 
sexual relationships and our relationships 
with our parents. 
And if we want those two to have no 
information or say on the other, that’s OK. 
If you want to be super open with your parents, great! But let that decision be 
your own and nobody else’s.
After all, it’s all relative.
Robyn Smith is a journalism senior. 
Her column appears on Fridays.The mother of sexual awkwardnessColumn
You’ve heard the com-
plaints. We’re lazy and entitled, and when we aren’t staring at a screen, we’re staring at our-
selves. We’re millennials, and we’re pretty unpopular.
It’s not a new phenomenon for 
older generations to gripe about 
“those darn kids,” but there seems to be a particularly acute level of disgust when it comes to millenni-
als.
Take the commencement speech that The 
Wall Street Journal’s Bret Stephens wrote to 
the Class of 2012. Stephens said, “most of you have spent the last few years getting inﬂ  ated grades in useless subjects in order to obtain a debased degree… .Please spare us the self-pity about how tough it is to look for a job while living with your parents.”
Stephens is not alone in these sentiments. 
A Time magazine article called “Millennials: The Me Me Me Generation,” published in 2013, agrees we are narcissistic and self-ag-grandizing and even provides research to sup-port these claims. To be fair, the Time piece at least goes on to address some of the reasons behind our narcissism, and it even says a few positive things.
So why does everyone think we’re so ter-
rible? There are a number of reasons, not the least of which is the fact that older gen-erations are now simply exposed to today’s youth more than in the past. Thanks to the rise of social media, Generation X and baby boomers now get to see our smiling, pouting, posing faces plastered on the Internet in what probably seems like an overwhelming collage 
of self-endorsement. Even worse, they get to 
read everything that crosses our minds, from stupid observations to vulgar tirades.
My point is not that some millennials aren’t 
indeed terrible, it’s that our terribleness is cap-tured in its all terrible glory, like a fossilized turd. Think about it: If every annoying mem-ber of our parents’ generation had possessed the ability to broadcast their thoughts to the 
world when they were 15, wouldn’t they have 
been insufferable, too? At the end of the day, any huge number of people will have its own proportion of incredibly vocal dummies and jerks. It just so happens that millennial dum-mies and jerks have also been armed with megaphones for most of their lives, which makes our generation look worse as a whole.
Social media has given millennials a mas-sive audience of peers and com-plete strangers to compare them-selves to and attempt to impress. What might seem like our genera-tion thinking its the greatest thing 
since sliced kale is actually our gen-
eration fretting about how to SEEM like the greatest thing since sliced kale. Between the perfectly crafted hashtags, picking the right ﬁ  lter and trying REALLY hard to make sure it looks like we aren’t trying 
too hard, it’s pretty stressful.
So, why bother? Why toil away at some-
thing so superﬁ  cial? It’s because the reward is sublime. If you told any baby-boom teenager that 500 people thought they were attractive and worthy, they’d be thrilled. It’s not that millennials naturally crave more approval than anyone else, it’s that we grew up with access to an unlimited supply of cheap (albeit meaningless) approval. All the insecurities of our teenage years were temporarily alleviated 
with each new like, so we developed into self-
ie-taking, self-obsessed, self-aware and self-loathing adults.
Let me be clear: I don’t think millennials 
are passive victims of social media. We have a choice, and many of us have chosen to remain addicted to validation because it’s what we’re used to. It’s pitiful. However, we aren’t all like that. For every millennial I know who spends 
his or her days getting high on retweets, I 
know one who feels independently conﬁ  dent in what he or she does.
We millennials have ﬂ  aws, but we also 
have a lot of good qualities. We’re open to new ideas, we value expression and we’re more socially accepting than previous generations. We even have several incredible role models; 18-year-old Malala Yousafzai’s unwavering 
courage in the ﬁ  ght for girls’ education rights 
and transgender teenager Jazz Jenning’s voice in the struggle for LGBTQ+ rights are both ex-cellent examples of what some are capable of.                                                           
Perhaps most importantly, millennials are 
here to stay. Pew Research Center estimates millennials now comprise 34 percent of the U.S. labor force, and that number will only rise. Before long, we will be the generation 
guiding this nation. While this prospect might 
make older generations shudder in fear, I have high hopes. We won’t be perfect, and there’s no telling what the future holds, but I am con-ﬁ  dent in our ability to do great things.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics 
senior. Her column appears on Fridays.
Millennials aren’t THAT terribleColumn
Namwan 
Leavell
opinions@alligator.org
Robyn 
Smith
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015
ABOVE:
The Zen Center and 
Hostel manager Kar-rie Ford (left), 27, play-fully rubs palm leaves on the head of Robin Wind, a 19-year-old musician and artist, who is playing a me-owsic keyboard on Nov. 4. Wind said she has been at The Zen Center for about a month, but “it seems like longer. ”
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
LEFT:
T ommy Stone, a mu-sician, whistles as he cleans up the back-yard at The Zen Cen-ter and Hostel. “This is my ﬁ  fth or sixth time here, ” he said. “It’s a great place to be cre-ative. ”
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
THE 
ZEN
CENTERBELOW:
A handwritten sign welcomes visitors to The Zen Center’s meditation 
room and asks them to remove their shoes before entering.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Diane Davidson writes on the steps of The Zen Center at 404 SE Second St. “I’m loving the human heart of 
Gainesville, ” she said, who stayed in the hostel while visiting Florida from Floyd, Virginia.Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Justin Colbert pets his dog in the room he shares with his partner, Kitty McGnarls, and their 8-month-old son, Astraeus, at The Zen Center on Nov. 4. The family moved there from New York about a year ago. BELOW:
Seen from inside one of the hos-tel dormitory rooms, Robin Wind sweeps the courtyard of The Zen Center and Hostel on Nov. 4. The hostel, where travelers pay a do-nation averaging $25 per night, was opened along with the cen-ter 11 years ago to ﬁ  nance it.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffRIGHT:
The Zen Center and Hostel main-tenance manager Roger Snyder prepares to sand down the ﬂ  oor-boards of a room in the center. Snyder said he hopes with the renovations the room can be used as another meditation or relaxation room.
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
Artist in residence Oliver Norden paints in the courtyard of The Zen Center and Hostel. He said he has worked on the piece for about three weeks, inviting community members to add shapes and colors and rotating the canvas until a pattern emerges.
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
$325 one large room with patio in two-one with mature female student. Split electric, high speed internet free, washer/dryer/dish -
washer in unit. Bus route 34, 35, 36, 38 (352) 631-0737     11-30-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For 
August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-
2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
11-18-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Sperry Van Ness Moecker Realty Auctions11/30/15352 Acre Res Dev't Auction SaleSite: 2600 Fort Lane Rd, Geneva, FL 32732App'd for 44 Res Lots from 1.2-3.9 acresLake Views & access to Lake HarneySubject to Highest and Best Offer w/ LenderApproval +10% Buyer’s PremContact: Keith Kidwell or Will Reynosowww.svnmoecker.com, 954-234-8777, 954-252-1049                        11-13-1-5
FREE Book reveals the sweet spot of real estate investing models.  Get this Amazon best-selling book FREE.  Call 855-453-5533, 24 hr recorded message!     11-1-1-5
Blue Ridge Mtns NCViews, views, views! New 1,300 sf.  2bed/2bath cabin features loft, pict. win-dows, large stone fpl, huge deck. $154,900. (828) 286-2981     11-13-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10ABSOLUTE AUCTION
By Order of
James D. Sallah, Receiver
Assets of JCS Enterprises, Inc.15132 Park of CommerceSte 103, Jupiter, FL 33478
On site
Tues. 11/17 11 am
Ex Office Furn. Brand NewIn Boxes 300 – 22”Monitors/Comps touch scrns, etc. 
Electronics, Tablets, Comps, Parts.
Most new in boxes. 
Virtual Kiosk MfgFac. Whse equip.Tools, Hardware etc. 400Kiosks “Pay Your Bills”
“Consignor” etc. work in progress. 
Currency Changers, Printers etc. Large 
qty mostly new.
Trucks, Boats, etc.
Catalog and Pics online
MARTINCLAIRE.COM
954-558-4582 AU1151 AB3357
10% bp 25% Dep.      11-13-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-111For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 10 For SaleFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-1293 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
13 Wanted
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-13-15-20-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab and follow the directions.    11-13-15-12-14
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with reliable transportation. If interested call (352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14
Part-Time Assistant Teacher at Millhopper Montessori School (M-F 8:30 AM - 1:00 PM). Ages 2-4 program. Starting November 30, 2015. Email mmschool@millhopper.com   11-17-15-9-1411Motorcycles/
Mopeds
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015
Hiring Dine-In Supervisors @ New 
Dominos on Archer Rd. Host & serve dine-in customers @ 3581 SW Archer Rd Location. PT & FT Flexible hrs. All you need is a smile. Apply @ gatordominos.com    11-19-15-10-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
Gator Moving & Storage Co – HIRINGPart-time – flexibility around class schedulesMust be age 21 or over with valid Florida Drive License and clean recordApply at 1950 NE 27th Ave / 352-374-4791    11-13-15-5-14
Eighth grader in need of tutoring in all sub-jects.Mon-Fri 3-6pm.Email with references and rates paula@trematerracustomhomes.com or call Mon-Fri 352 333-1945    11-16-15-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    11-20-15-7-14
Photographers-build your portfolio! Help us with photo shoots for our company website and brochures. $50 per hour. Send samples of work and contact information to photos2016gnv@gmail.com.    11-20-15-6-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week! NO experience Needed! Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364     11-13-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Trainingand Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators.Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497     11-13-1-14
ATTN: DriversGreat Money, Respect You DeserveHome For Christmas!$500 Holiday BonusFree Clinics + Family FriendlyCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782www.drive4melton.com     11-13-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED! Become a driver for Stevens Transport! NO EXPERIENCE NEEDED! New drivers can earn $800+ per week! PAID LOCAL CDL TRAINING! 1-888-743-1573 drive4stevens.com     11-13-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429   11-13-1-15
American Standard Walk-In Baths -Stay in your home longer, safely, independently. Best Lifetime Warranty in the industry.Get $1,000 Off and a Free Toiletwith every Installation.Call Now Toll-Free 855-371-5348   1-13-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified.Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance866-314-5838     11-13-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858      11-13-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
CPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    11-13-1-16
Compare Medicare Supplement Plans and Save! Call NOW during Open Enrollment to receive  Free Medicare Quotes from Trusted, Affordable Companies! Get covered and Save! Call 855-993-5923     11-13-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS?Talk to someone who cares.Call The Addiction Hope & Help Linefor a free assessment. 855-995-3142     11-13-1-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 11/16-11/19 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then workshops” to register.    11-16-5-20Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Set into motion
8 Golf alternative,
briefly
15 Red bowlful16 __ Itzá: Mayan
ruins
17 Classic leading
man whomoonlighted at a
pharmacy?
19 Second of 24
20 L.A. Kings’ org.21 Management22 Fiji’s region25 Pulitzer-winning
writer who
moonlighted in a
nightly newsstudio?
32 Saying that often
goes withoutsaying
33 Breaks down34 One with a
handbook
36 Tony winner
Huffman
37 Bolshoi outfit38 Kitchen bar39 “I’d strike the sun
if it insulted me”speaker
43 Folklore threats44 Actor who
moonlighted in abrass band?
47 Makes
complementary(to)
48 “Here Come the
__”: 1945 collegecomedy
52 Actor Stephen53 18-Down
competitor
57 English author
who moonlightedat LensCrafters?
61 Enhances in the
kitchen
62 “That’s my
recommendation”
63 Reply to “That’s
enough!”
64 Pool workers
DOWN
1 Rhyme scheme
in many sonnets
2 Bear up3 Moderate pace4 Open org.5 “__ du lieber!”6 From that place7 Rembrandt and
Picasso, at times
8 Obsolescent
family room fixture
9 Justification
10 Puzzle
sometimes
framed
11 Hose shade
12 Southeast Asian
language
13 Garden party
protection
14 Garden party
intruders
18 53-Across
competitor
22 Resistance unit
23 Collar
24 A-listers25 City SSW of
Dallas
26 Praise to the
heavens
27 To help, to Henri
28 Piece of toast?
29 Expenditure30 Activity of great
interest?
31 __ One: vodka
brand
35 Scam
39 Proper
40 In a lather, with
“up”41 Words with take
or lose
42 Fund-raiser
43 Like “fain”: Abbr.
45 Poe of the
Baltimore
Ravens, for one
46 Certain agent’s
area
48 Mozart title
starter
49 General Motors
subsidiary50 Substitute in a
list
51 Ph.D. hurdle53 Both, at the start54 Contests55 Smithsonian,
e.g.: Abbr.
56 PD ranks58 Italian diminutive
suffix
59 Venom
transmitter
60 Arguable ability
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/13/1511/13/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, November 13, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 EntertainmentHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Paul Spangler and 
UF's men's and women's cross country teams will race in NCAA Regionals today. Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sports. By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
One game signaled the end of an era.
The next signals how much has changed.On Saturday, No. 11 Florida (8-1, 6-1 South-
eastern Conference) will face South Carolina (3-6, 1-6 SEC) a year removed from the last meeting between the two programs, a game that proved to be the last straw in former coach 
Will Muschamp’s UF tenure.
“It wasn’t a good memory,” defensive line-
man Bryan Cox Jr. said.
In that game, the Gators fell behind 10-0 
early, scored 17 unanswered points, and then, 
as the student section prematurely jingled its keys, gave up the tying touchdown with 12 seconds remaining to send the game to over-time.
After a Gators field goal, Gamecocks quar-
terback Dylan Thompson ran in the game-winning 4-yard touchdown, giving South Caro-lina coach and UF legend Steve Spurrier what 
would ultimately be his final win at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium, while also sending the Flori-
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Alhassan, Gators looking to get back to winning ways
Coach Mary Wise and Florida's volleyball team are seeking a win against 
Alabama tonight at 7 in the O'Connell Center. UF dropped a five-set thriller to Auburn on Sunday, meaning the Gators are 0-4 in five-set matches this season. Read the preview online at www.alligator.org/sports. After a narrow 9-7 win over 
Vanderbilt on Homecom-ing on Saturday, the No. 11 
Gators hit the road to take 
on the South Carolina Game-
cocks in Columbia, South Carolina, at noon on ESPN. 
Gone on the sidelines in Colum-
bia is Heisman Trophy winner and 
former UF coach Steve Spurrier, who 
resigned on Oct. 13. 
Florida has wrapped up the South-
eastern Conference East division, 
and the Gators turn their focus to finishing the regular season strong. 
Barring any missteps, UF remains 
in the College Football Playoff hunt, but any SEC foe can dash the team’s dreams.
Debating Saturday’s game be-
tween Akron and Miami (OH) is al-ligatorSports editor Graham Hall and Alligator managing/online editor Jordan McPherson. 
Akron will win because…
This is what I’m talking about. 
Who cares about Ohio State? This is the real battle for Ohio. Akron is a 
competent football program for what 
seems like the first time. 
The Zips, who have one of the 
best mascots in all the land, are 
coming off a 17-13 victory over Mas-
sachusetts. But you know what they say — a win is better than a loss. 
If some football MACtion doesn’t 
get you fired up, I don’t know what 
will. 
— Graham Hall
Miami (OH) will win 
because...
It’s been a long time coming, but 
this team finally figured out how to 
win. 
They look like a real team, one 
willing to play for each other. 
It came down to the wire, but that 
breathtaking last-second touchdown PICKS
SITE: Williams-Brice 
Stadium (cap. 80,250)
KICKOFF: Noon ET 
TV /RADIO: ESPN
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain walks on the sideline during Florida's 9-7 win against Vanderbilt on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
The Gators face South Carolina on Saturday at noon having already clinched the Southeastern Conference East division. 
UF playing for more than wins with SEC East sealedFLORIDA-SOUTH CAROLINA
THE TEAM PLAYS NAVY 
TONIGHT AT 9:30. 
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
Florida's men's basketball team 
is ready for its new beginning. 
Mike White and his coaching 
staff are ready to pick up the pieces 
of the Gators’ disappointing 2014-15 campaign and return the pro-gram to prominence. This year’s young and fairly new team has shown preseason potential, but will hit the ground running tonight on the road as the regular season begins.
Florida opens its season tonight 
against the Navy Midshipmen at 9:30 in Annapolis, Maryland. 
It will be just the third time ever 
the two teams have faced each oth-er, and the first time in more than 50 years.
The Gators have won 24 
straight season openers heading into tonight’s game, but White is not expecting an easy matchup against Navy by any means.
“It’s a difficult start,” White 
said. “People look at Navy and say ‘they’re in the Patriot, you’re in the SEC, that’s a gimme.’ Heck no, that’s not a gimme. This is a very difficult game.”
White referenced Florida’s youth and inexperience as a chal-lenge facing the Gators in the opener. Only three players — Dorian Finney-Smith, Kasey Hill and DeVon Walker — have two seasons of playing experience at Florida, while everyone else has 
less or none.
And with redshirt senior for-
ward Alex Murphy out four-to-six 
weeks with a partially torn plantar 
Gators men's basketball to open White era
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
UF will open the 2015-16 women’s bas-
ketball season hoping to get lucky on Friday 
the 13th. 
The team will be tasked with taking down 
Temple on the road in their first game of the 
season — a season in which Florida is look-
ing to rebound from a disappointing 13-17 campaign. 
The last time the Gators opened on the 
road, they were handed an 88-86 loss at the hands of Florida Gulf Coast in 2008. 
That same season is also the last time 
Florida met with Temple. 
In an NCAA tournament first round game 
in Storrs, Connecticut, Florida took down the Owls 70-57 and are 5-1 against them all-time. 
Neither team is going into the game 
ranked or with any clout to speak of, but Temple is coming off a deep run in the Women’s National Invitation Tournament and will have home court advantage. 
Some might wonder how much of an ef-
fect home court advantage has in a women’s 
college basketball game, but Erica Covile, 
who led Temple in rebounding a season ago, enthusiastically said that it plays a substan-tial role.
“It’s a good feeling to have our first game 
at home,” she said.
“We have our home crowd, our fans there 
to cheer us on.”
Covile added that while preparing to face 
Florida, her team has focused on keeping the Gators away from the basket and keeping plays in front of them.
“They’ve got a lot of people that can 
score. We’ve gotta keep them off the boards, just play our game and I think we should be alright,” Covile said.
Florida assistant coach Muriell Page, who 
is in charge of scouting opponents, said that Temple is an athletic team that pushes the  tempo. 
“I think it’s just containing the ball and 
controlling tempo and not playing their style 
of basketball but playing our style of basket-
ball,” Page said.Junior forward Ronni Williams echoed 
Page, saying that Temple’s game flows 
through its guards.
“They’re very guard oriented so we have 
to stop their guards like we stop guards in 
practice … (and) we’ll come out with the win,” Williams said.
Williams herself was named to the Pre-
season All-Southeastern Conference Second Team earlier this week. When asked about it, Williams couldn’t have cared less about 
her individual accolade. 
“I don’t pay any attention to it at all,” she said.
“My main focus is to do whatever I can 
to help our team succeed. We wanna win 
— that’s our goal, that’s what we’re looking forward to.”
One intriguing storyline going into the 
game for UF is that of redshirt freshman point guard Isis Young, who will see her first game action in nearly two years and her first ever as a Gator after spending last season re-covering from a torn ACL.
“This year, I get to make an impact on the 
court,” she said. 
“So I’m obviously very excited and 
they’ve encouraged me a lot, so I feel strong right now coming back from my injury, so I’m really excited to go out there and do something.”
While Young’s injury is certainly unfortu-
nate, the location of her comeback couldn’t 
be more convenient. 
“I think I have over about 50 people com-
ing so far, so I’m really excited,” Young said.
Young hails from Berlin, New Jersey, 
which is more than 20 miles from the sight 
of tonight’s game. 
With so many people coming to watch 
her, Young said that she’s both excited and pressured.
“(It’s) good and bad because you’re ex-
cited to play in front of family but you also wanna play so great because you’re in front of family,” she said.
It’s obvious that for Young, tonight will 
be anything but unlucky. For the rest of the team, however, that remains to be seen.
Tipoff is set for 7 p.m. and the game can 
be heard on ESPN Gainesville. 14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Christen Westphal dribbles the ball during Florida’s 2-1 win over 
LSU on Oct. 11 at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
A fresh start and a whole new 
season awaits the Florida soccer 
team on Saturday night.
The No. 5 Gators (17-3-1, 8-2-
1 Southeastern Conference) are looking at the 2015 NCAA Tour-nament as a clean slate as they 
prepare to face Western Michi-
gan (14-3-4, 8-1-2 Mid-Atlantic Conference) in the first round on Saturday at 7 p.m. at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
Coach Becky Burleigh and 
Florida have never faced West-ern Michigan in the program’s 21-year existence, but Burleigh is 
excited for the challenge that the 
winners of the MAC tournament pose in the first round.
“I think it’s a good first round 
game because they definitely have 
our attention,” Burleigh said. 
“I mean, they tied Notre 
Dame, lost in overtime to Wiscon-
sin (and) did a pretty good job in 
their conference so it’s going to 
be a good match.”
Burleigh said the first meet-
ing between the two programs doesn’t worry her because it’s 
also the first time that West-
ern Michigan will be seeing the Gators. 
Burleigh said her team is fo-
cused on framing their week on the season-long theme of progres-sion, taking one game at a time.
The Gators admitted that they 
don’t know much about their opening round opponent, but have watched film of Western Michigan’s games this week. 
Florida is studying the Bron-
cos’ playing style in order to bet-ter understand who they are up against. 
“Sarah (Troccoli) does know a 
couple of girls on the team. She’s from Michigan, but we still don’t know too much about them,” ju-nior forward Savannah Jordan said. 
“It’s just about focusing on us 
and preparing what we do best.” 
The Gators head into Satur-
day’s match with confidence, as 
they are currently  riding a nine-
game winning streak and an SEC tournament title. 
Jordan said the team’s SEC 
tournament experience will help 
them in the one-and-done style 
tournament.
“It gives our team some con-
fidence and kind of proves that 
we can be in that type of environ-
ment, in that type of situation, and still come out of it,” Jordan said. 
“Our team showed a lot of re-
silience through the tournament and I think that’ll pay off going into the NCAA tournament as well.”
When asked about how the 
leadership group, including her-self, is trying to get the team pumped up for the first round, Jordan says the situation moti-
vates the team.
“I think it speaks for itself,” 
Jordan said. 
“It’s single elimination. This 
could potentially be our last game of the season and that in itself is 
motivation for our team.”
The Gators are hosting the first 
round of the tournament for the 
third straight season.
In 2013, the Gators defeated 
Jacksonville 2-0 in the first round 
of the NCAA Tournament. 
And in 2014’s opening round, 
the Gators defeated Mercer, 3-0.
Senior defender Christen West-
phal said playing at home in the postseason allows the players to 
experience a level of comfort.
“The one year that we played 
away when we could have played 
at home definitely kind of showed us the home advantage kind of 
thing,” Westphal said. 
“Having the ability to play here 
hopefully for a couple of games is 
definitely very comforting.”Gators kick off NCAA Tournament 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF forward Ronni Williams drives to the basket during Florida’s 77-42 loss to 
South Carolina on Jan. 19 in the O’Connell Center. 
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
Florida set to open season on the road against TempleIt’s single elimination just show… Oh wait, wrong Mi-
ami team. This one will be fine, too.
— Jordan McPherson
Now onto the picks!In first place with a record of 
44-34-2 is the Palm Beach Post’s 
Anthony “Stuck in Columbia” Chiang, who will spend an extra 24 hours in South Carolina fol-
lowing the game. 
Take some time to enjoy the 
sights, Anthony. The heart-warm-
ing, optimistic population should be a welcome change from your 
stuck-in-Kendall acquaintances. 
In second place with a record 
of 43-35-2 is Alligator manag-ing/online editor Jordan “I don’t 
know how my computer broke ;)” McPherson, who was in a “sticky situation” this week when he had to take his computer in for 
repairs. 
You’ve mastered using the 
incognito browser, Jordan. Now 
it’s time to bring the Kleenex 
over ahead of time. 
In third place with a record 
of 42-36-2 is alligatorSports as-sistant editor Luis “Special” Tor-
res, who, hoping to make a good impression, channeled McElwain and wore a sombrero to a wed-
ding. 
We know you’re a little spe-
cial, Luis. But, only the mentally 
competent get to play special 
teams. 
In fourth place with a record of 41-37-2 is GatorCountry’s Nick 
“Fake ID” De la Torre, who fre-quently enjoys the nightlife and 
attempts to convince unsuspect-
ing women that he is a college-aged individual rather than a man approaching 30. 
I don’t know who falls for that, 
Nick. It’s time to find a woman who looks like you. I know sever-al bachelorettes at local nursing homes who would be more suited 
for your looks. 
In fifth place with a record 
of 40-38-2 is the Orlando Senti-
nel’s Edgar “Strap-on” Thomp-son, who received some good ole Twitter flack for innocently using the phrase “strap it on”. 
Good try feigning innocence, 
Edgar. We know where your mind was. That’s right, it was in the gutter. Thinking about dildos. 
We have two-way tie for sixth 
place with records of 36-42-2.
First up is 247 Sports’ Thomas 
“AMA” Goldkamp, who pumped his own ego by hosting a Q&A on Twitter for Gator fans to ask him questions. 
I’m jealous of your influence over the Florida faithful, Thomas. I wish I could be...Subscribe for $10 a month to continue reading 
this burn. 
Next is alligatorSports editor 
Graham “WNBA’” Hall, who was 
so infatuated with the WNBA 
playoffs last month that three 
people are now picking under protest because Graham failed to correctly send out the picks col-
umn. 
Come on, Graham. Life, just 
like your description of women’s 
basketball, is a chess match. Make the right choice now (read: turn off the snoozefest of a game and do your damn job) or else we’ll have to get you the help 
you need.
And STILL in dead-ass-last 
with a piss-poor record of 32-46-
2 is alligatorSports’ staff writer 
Graham “Soooooo busy” Hack, 
who frequently complains about the minimal work he has to do. 
You don’t work in an office, 
you live at home and watch high-lights all day of Jeff Gordon turn-ing left. I’m tired of your com-plaining, Hack. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
  HALL  LT  HACK  JM
UF (-7.5) vs SCar  UF  UF  UF  UF
Okla vs Baylor (-2.5)  BAY  BAY  BAY  BAYNCSt vs FSU (-10)  NCST  NCST  NCST  NCSTBama (-7.5) vs Miss St  BAMA  BAMA  BAMA  BAMA
Ark vs LSU (-7.5)  LSU  LSU  LSU  ARKOre vs Stan (-10)  STAN  ORE  STAN  STANUtah (-6) vs Zona  UTAH  UTAH  ZONA  UTAHUGA vs AU (-2)  AU  AU  AU  UGA
  ET  AC  ND  TG
UF (-7.5) vs SCar  SCAR  UF  SCAR  UF
Okla vs Baylor (-2.5)  BAY  BAY  BAY  BAYNCSt vs FSU (-10)  FSU  NCST  FSU                   NCST
Bama (-7.5) vs Miss St  BAMA  MISS  BAMA  MISS
Ark vs LSU (-7.5)  ARK  LSU  ARK  ARKOre vs Stan (-10)  STAN  ORE  ORE  STANUtah (-6) vs Zona  UTAH  UTAH  UTAH  UTAHUGA vs AU (-2)  UGA   AU  UGA   AUPICKS,  from pg13fascia in his right foot, White said the younger 
players will have to step up to fill that role.
“We’ll have one senior out there and just 
a couple juniors with any experience,” White said. “Navy will be as disciplined, as tough, 
as accountable as any team we play all year. 
They’re soldiers. Our weaknesses are their biggest strengths.”
Redshirt junior DeVon Walker is embrac-
ing the challenge of opening the season on the road with such a young team. He said he’s very excited for the players and coaches to be starting a new season together.
“We’re a young team. I think this will be 
a great challenge,” Walker said. “It’s a great environment up there. They’re a very solid team, a very good team, so it’ll be a great test for us definitely kicking off our season.”
In last Thursday’s exhibition game against 
Palm Beach Atlantic, all 16 players on Flori-da’s roster saw playing time. 
White doesn’t anticipate using quite that 
many tonight, or throughout the season, but 
he did say because so many of the young play-
ers are still unproven, he wants to give them opportunities to show what they can do.
“I would be surprised if we don’t play 10 to 
12 Friday night,” White said. 
“If we have 10 playing really well, then maybe we just play 10. But I hadn’t seen that type of consistency on a consistent basis yet with this team.”
With question marks still surrounding 
many of the young and new faces on the Gators’ roster, the issues of turnovers and free 
throw percentages looming, and with the in-
jury bug already biting, it’s hard to anticipate how well Florida will play in tonight’s season opener.
White, however, does have confidence in 
certain aspects of his team that he believes give him a good chance to earn his first win as the head coach of the Gators.
“I feel comfortable saying that we’ll be 
more talented, we’ll be a little bit more ath-letic, we’ll be a little bigger,” White said. 
“If we can match some of the intangibles 
that are their biggest strengths, it’ll obviously not only help us on Friday night but it’ll help us this season. It’s a fitting opener for us and this current team.”HOOPS,  from pg13UF will play at least 10 players
loss.
The next day, the school announced that 
Muschamp would be fired at the end of the 
season.
Twenty-one days later, Jim McElwain was 
introduced as the program’s new head coach.
Eighty-one days later, McElwain did his 
best to hold together a top-25 recruiting class, 
one that included current contributors like wide receiver Antonio Callaway, offensive lineman Martez Ivey and defensive lineman CeCe Jefferson.
Back in September, 294 days later, McEl-
wain took the field for his first game in The Swamp with a team filled with unknowns, predicted to finish fifth in its division.
And on Saturday, 364 days later and with 
an SEC East title assured, McElwain’s group has only one thing at stake — keeping its hopes of a College Football Playoff selection alive.
The journey has been nothing short of 
remarkable, and McElwain wants people to acknowledge what this team has done.
“We should be excited about where these 
guys have come,” McElwain said, “and how far they’ve come to help this university be to where it should be and help this football pro-gram get back to where it belongs.”
Part of it has come from schematics.
Part of it has come from an influx of tal-
ented freshmen.
But more than anything, it’s a cultural 
change within the locker room that has sparked the turnaround.
“Guys getting along more,” linebacker An-
tonio Morrison said. 
“Guys loving each other now. We don’t 
have many individuals like we had last year. We had a lot of individuals. (We’re) playing 
as a group now, playing as one.”
If nothing else, the school’s student body 
illustrates the difference a year makes.
In that South Carolina game last season, 
the student section was filled with blotches of empty bleachers. 
In fact, after the lows of the Muschamp 
era, Florida had to do away with its student 
ticket lottery this offseason due to a lack of 
demand, opting instead to go with a first come, first served system.
On Thursday night, the school’s allotment 
of 1,500 student tickets to the SEC Champion-ship Game sold out in five minutes.
Times have changed.FOOTBALL,  from pg13Gators are playing as a group
“Navy will be as disciplined, as tough, 
as accountable as any team we play all 
year. They're soldiers. Our weaknesses 
are their biggest strengths.”
Mike White
UF men's basketball coach16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2015
SWIMMING & DIVING
By Lauren Staff
Alligator Writer
@Lstaﬀ  27
If you were to glance at UF’s 
swimming and diving roster, you 
could easily mistake it for an Olym-pic lineup, with athletes on the team representing 11 nations across four 
continents.
Gregg Troy, the head coach of 
Florida’s men’s and women’s swim-
ming teams, can’t remember exactly how many countries he has been to around the world, because he said it’s more than 20. 
During the course of his 38-year 
career, Troy has served as an assis-
tant coach in the 1996 Atlanta Olym-
pics and the 2008 Beijing Olympics, and was the team’s head coach for the 2012 London Olympics. 
Throughout his 17 years at Flor-
ida, Troy has used his international inﬂ  uence to bring a consistent inﬂ  ux of overseas talent to Gainesville.
Troy has coached more than 75 
Olympians and 250 All-American swimmers while helping them to claim 155 U.S. and international re-cords. If there is one person that can spot talent in the pool, it’s Troy. 
But he also realizes that the Unit-
ed States is not the only country that can produce strong swimmers.
Florida has a combined 18 swim-
mers on both the men’s and wom-en’s teams who are international athletes, coming from as far away as Greece, Poland and Austria. 
“The main reason we recruit 
them is because some of them are faster than the Americans,” Troy said. 
“Also, sometimes the foreign ath-
letes are more appreciative of the opportunity because it isn’t available in their country. Americans grow up thinking that it’s going to be avail-able to compete and go to school at the same time, and in a lot of foreign countries you either compete or you go to school.”
However, Florida doesn’t have to 
spend all of its energy looking for tal-ent in these countries.
Most of the time it comes to them. “We have a really good interna-
tional reputation, and so normally the athletes ﬁ  nd us,” said women’s associate coach Martyn Wilby, one of the team’s international recruiting coaches. 
“We have a heavy focus on inter-
national swimming, so they contact us, we don’t contact them.”
Florida’s record of success with 
international swimmers has encour-aged other athletes from around the world to come to Gainesville.  
Florida has also beneﬁ  tted from 
recruiting swimmers that have 
younger siblings. 
Many of them decide to follow in 
their brother’s or sister’s footsteps. 
On the men’s side alone, there 
are three pairs of brothers. 
Senior Corey Main, an Auckland, 
New Zealand, native, was an athlete 
that Florida didn’t know about until he started showing interest in UF.
His coaches back home reached 
out to Troy about potentially swim-ming in Gainesville. 
“My swimming director put me 
in touch with Troy and that is how I got a scholarship to swim over here,” Main said. 
“I had heard about him (and 
Florida) and the swimmers he had 
coached before.” 
To this point in his Florida career, 
Main has netted 12 All-American se-
lections, complementing a spot on the 2015 All-Southeastern Confer-ence Second Team.
His younger brother, redshirt 
freshman Bailey Main, recognized that Corey’s success merited his own 
8,070 mile ﬂ  ight to Gainesville.“I didn’t really have much of a 
recruiting experience, because Corey 
was here,” Bailey said. “It made it easy to choose this place.” 
Troy said it was helpful that the 
Main brothers arrived in Gainesville having already seen success in the pool. 
“They are both very dedicated to 
what they do,” Troy said. 
“They are used to being success-
ful at home, so they came in with a little bit of a winner’s mentality.”
Although international swim-
mers are attracted to the idea of swimming at an elite program with a former Olympic head coach at the helm, leaving the conﬁ  nes of their home country for the unknowns of the United States still constitutes a leap of faith.
This is something Kahlia War-
ner, a senior diver from Queensland, Australia, found out ﬁ  rsthand upon her arrival in the Spring of 2013. 
“It was daunting. Moving to a 
new country is a huge deal,” Warner said. “It was scary, but it was one  (of) the best things I ever did.” 
Before she joined the team, Flori-
da paid for her 9,572 mile ﬂ  ight from 
Queensland to Gainesville, a recruit-
ing pitch meant to introduce her to her future teammates and the cam-pus she would eventually call home. 
In just 72 hours, Warner knew 
that she wanted to continue her swimming career at Florida.
“I decided on Florida because 
of the overall atmosphere,” War-
ner said. “The football stadium was 
a huge thing for me too. We don’t have anything like that at home, so it was amazing. 
“And all the facilities on campus. 
I was coming here for athletics, so just to be able to see them and know I was going to be involved with them was huge for me.” 
Following this season, the Olym-pic hopeful plans to train for the Olympic Trials, aiming to secure a spot on the Australian National Team.
In contrast with her teammate, 
senior Jessica Theilmann of Newcas-tle, England, underwent a complete-ly different recruiting experience.
“It was a little crazy because (Florida) recruited me and at ﬁ  rst I thought I wanted to stay home so I said no,” Theilmann said. “But then I changed my mind six weeks before 
school started. It was a mad rush, 
but the way that they helped me out was incredible.” 
Read the rest of the story online at 
www.alligator.org/sports. 
International ties key for Troy, UF
Alligator File Photo
Gregg Troy has coached in multiple Olympics throughout his 38-
year career. UF’s roster this season has swimmers from 11 nations. 
