VOLUME 109 ISSUE 107 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Read local event brings area authors 
together
Authors read their work aloud, pg. 5. The Alligator endorses Access Party
Read our SG party recommendation, pg 6.  
UF’s Project Makeover draws alumni back to Gainesville
It’s the eighth annual school makeover, pg 3. 
For a photo 
gallery from 
UF’s home base-
ball, softball and 
lacrosse games, 
see page 14.
77/50
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Home on Flavet Field
Alex Ebert, the 36-year-old lead singer of indie folk band Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros, performs from atop the Flavet Field stage Friday night. Electronic music duo The Knocks opened the concert, which had a large turnout despite the evening’s cold weather.
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Swamp Head Brewery is now using 
Florida’s sunshine to power its brand new 
brew house.
The Gainesville-based brewery, which 
had its grand opening Saturday, is now reaping the Sunshine State’s beneﬁ  ts by installing about 50 solar panels on the roof of its new building, at 3650 SW 42nd Ave.
Although eco-friendly practices are not 
a new concept in the craft beer industry, owner Luke Kemper said Swamp Head appears to be the ﬁ  rst Florida brewery to use solar power.
Kemper said he looked into installing 
panels at the brewery’s previous location, but its roof wasn’t suitable.
“We’ve been talking about trying to do 
as much as we can as far as sustainabil-
ity and giving back to the environment,” 
Kemper said. “This is our step toward try-ing to get as much solar power as we can.”
Harvesting energy from the sun will 
also help offset electricity costs, he said.
The 57 solar panels generate enough 
energy to power about three average-sized homes, said Barry Jacobson, president of Solar Impact, which installed the panels at the brewery.Local brewery now ﬁ  rst in state powered by sun
ANSLEY PENTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Aedyn Martinez balanced on his 
child-sized skateboard, pulled his 
hands up and hurdled down Uni-versity Avenue on Sunday.
The 6-year-old attended the free 
Active Streets event, which closed off University Avenue from West Sixth Street to Northeast Boulevard from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
While vehicles were unable to 
pass through nine blocks of down-town Gainesville, locals were able to dance, cycle and play in the streets.Aedyn said he liked to skate-
board in the street, and his 8-year-old brother, Elijah, said he enjoyed seeing people of all ages.
The goal of the event is to bring 
together diverse groups of people 
who might not meet in everyday 
life, said Joseph Floyd, Active Streets’ co-chair.
“We want it to be representative 
of all of our community,” Floyd said.
As cyclists and rollerbladers 
zipped down the car lanes, busi-nesses and community groups of-Active Streets event 
caters to local residents
CAMPUS
ARIELLA PHILLIPS
Alligator Contributing Writer
This summer, the UF International 
Center is hosting its ﬁ  rst university-spon-
sored study-abroad program to Cuba.
Even though Cuba is on the federal 
list of state-sponsors of terrorism, the 
program directors said they are not con-
cerned for student safety. Students abroad have been in areas of political turmoil be-fore without challenges to their safety, like in the case of January’s Paris attacks.
Manuela Hernandez, an international 
studies and economics junior who is studying in Paris, wrote in an email that security was tighter at ﬁ  rst, but within a 
month, the mood had calmed down.“I never considered going home be-
cause I knew that overall the situation 
would be managed,” she said.
Safety is not an issue for the Cuba pro-
gram, said Donald Behringer, associate professor in the School of Forest Resourc-
es and Conservation and director for the 
program. He has traveled to both main-land Cuba and Guantanamo Bay twice, and said it is one of the safest places he has been to in the Caribbean.
“Governments are in conﬂ  ict,” he said. 
“But the people are as nice as can be.”
The U.S. and Cuba will continue talks 
on Friday to end the embargo, leaving 
some wondering what this means to the 
UF community.UF not hesitant to host 
Cuba study abroad program“We’ve been talking about trying 
to do as much as we can as far as 
sustainability and giving back to the 
environment. 
Luke Kemper
Swamp Head Brewery owner
SEE TRAVEL, PAGE 4SEE SWAMP, PAGE 8
SEE ACTIVE, PAGE 4News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 107 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY
CLOUDY
64/46RAIN
64/45RAIN
63/46RAIN
61/48PARTLY 
CLOUDY
77/50
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. to end sexual violence. What 
better way to teach than by doing? Show us your best by-stander scenarios in a public service announcement video 
format, and you could win up 
to $550 in UF Bookstore gift cards. Deadline for submis-sion is March 1. For official rules and eligibility, visit ga-torwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
Facsimiles of Medieval 
Manuscripts on exhibit at 
Smathers Library Gallery
On view now through March 6 is the “Beast in the Book: Animals in Jewish, Christian, and Islamic Illustrations from the Middle Ages” exhibit. The exhibit encourages the viewer to reflect upon the ways in which the illustrators 
combined high art and imagi-
nation along with didactic messages. The Smathers Library Gallery is located on the second floor of Smathers Library on campus. Hours are Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. unless oth-erwise specified. Exhibition 
available online at exhibits.
uflib.ufl.edu/beasts.
Ask a Scientist: Geology
Science is all around you! Take advantage of this op-portunity to talk one-on-one with researchers from UF’s Department of Geological 
Sciences on March 8 from 1 to 
4 p.m. at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Bring your specimens, and find an-swers during an afternoon of discovery and learning. For more information, call 352-273-2064.
Bottom Up Sex Ed
Registration is now open for Yes Means Yes, an in-terdisciplinary, interac-tive, non-credit, five week, student-facilitated seminar that encourages meaning-ful, engaging discussions on consent and sexuality. Make 
your campus safer, have din-
ner on us and increase your sexual satisfaction! Meets Thursday evenings March 12 through April 9, 6:30 to 8 p.m. For more information and to register, go to gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive
Can You Dig It?
Dig into geology, and dis-cover the Earth at your feet. Enjoy hands-on activities, and watch demonstrations of volcanic eruptions March 14 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Explore the muse-
um, and check out displays 
and activities on geology, fossils, gems, minerals and much more from Florida and around the world at this free WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Finals Relaxation Week at Library 
WestTake a break from studying and join the Library Ambassadors for these relaxing activities at 
Library West. Kim and Zeus the 
service dogs will be in the build-ing Monday from 3 to 5 p.m. Coffee and donut holes will be served Tuesday from 10 to 11 a.m. on the second floor near the circulation desk. Chair mas-sages will be given Wednesday from 4 to 6 p.m. in Room 212. 
Pizza and fiction books will be 
given away Thursday from 5 to 6 p.m. on the second floor near the circulation desk.
Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: 
Early Roots of Rock and RollHear history come to life Thursday with a multimedia 
presentation by the chairman 
of the Yale University Music Department entitled “Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: Early Roots of Rock and Roll.” This lecture, running from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Matheson Museum, examines how the hokum blues of the late 1920s were the basis 
for musical sensations of the 
1950s. Admission is free.
Gay Movie Night
This month’s movie is “Burning Blue.” They have been trained to meet danger head-on and execute vital strategic maneu-vers while flying at breathtak-
ing speeds. But after a series 
of fatal accidents, a close-knit squadron of male Navy pilots begins to splinter and becomes the focus of a criminal investi-gation. As a government agent digs to uncover the cause of the accidents, two of the pilots en-gage in a secret, forbidden rela-
tionship. Their affair is exposed, 
and the squadron is engulfed in an incendiary scandal that will challenge each pilot’s no-tions of friendship, love, honor and courage. Gay Movie Night is a free service of the Pride Community Center. A $2 dona-tion is requested to cover cost of 
snacks. It’s at 7:30 p.m. Friday at 
the Pride Community Center at 3131 NW 13th St.
Public meeting for Save Our 
SuwanneeSave Our Suwannee is hosting a free public-education presen-tation. Robert Knight will pres-
ent “Restoring the Suwannee 
– A Hopeful Future.” He will talk about the current scientific understanding of impairments, their causes and effects, and will lay out a comprehensive plan for restoration and protec-tion. It will be at 7 p.m. Friday in the Great Outdoors Ballroom at 
65 N. Main St. in High Springs. 
Light refreshments will be pro-vided afterward.
Be a Game Changer Video 
ContestSTRIVE at GatorWell, the Women’s Student Association and Student Government’s 
Health Affairs Cabinet are ex-
cited to unveil our “Be a Game Changer” video contest. Help educate UF on how to intervene event for all ages. This event 
is presented by the University 
of Florida Department of Geological Sciences and the Florida Museum in collabo-ration with the Gainesville Gem and Mineral Society and additional community spon-sors. Food from High Springs Orchard and Bakery will be 
available for purchase. For 
more information, call 352-273-2064.
Take Back the Night
The Office of Victim Services, in collaboration with STRIVE and other campus organizations, is looking for an artist to use his 
or her gifts toward making a 
creative stand against sexual violence. Take Back the Night is an annual event held to “shatter the silence” of sexual violence taking place on April 1. They’d like to see a student help de-velop a 3-D art piece that can be used in promotion of the event 
as well as in the aftermath as 
a visual reminder of how the Gator community takes a stand against sexual violence. If this project interests you please email victim advocate Annie Carper at annekcarper@ufl.edu or send a Facebook message.Rainbow Room.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions 
after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqMONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Michelle McNally / Alligator
Brandon Peebles, 21, an art coordinator for Project Makeover, paints on the sidewalk at W.A. 
Metcalfe Elementary School. Members and volunteers painted murals all around the school.
 IT WAS THE EIGHTH ANNUAL MAKEOVER WEEKEND. 
MICHELLE MCNALLY
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF alumni returned to Gainesville 
over the weekend to give local children a 
better place to play.
From Friday to Sunday, more than 
1,200 volunteers gathered at W. A. 
Metcalfe Elementary School in east 
Gainesville to renovate the school for this year’s Project Makeover.
Project Makeover, a student-run orga-
nization that annually renovates a low-income elementary school in Alachua County, was started by Joshua Jackson when he was a senior at UF in 2008.
This year, Jackson, 28, helped make 
Metcalfe’s play-space dream project come to life.  
Donations worth about $1,000 went 
toward playground supplies, like a vol-leyball net and bases for kickball, said Christie Workman, project manager. Participants also painted game boards on picnic tables.
The biggest project was the installa-
tion of a GaGa Ball Pit, a popular new playground game that resembles dodge ball but takes place inside an octagon-shaped ring, Workman said.
Among the volunteers was Ashley Po-
doll, a 2013 graduate of UF. The Project Makeover veteran ﬂ  ew in from Denver because she said her involvement was one of the highlights of her college expe-rience.
“It’s all about the kids who don’t have 
much and never really had anything given to them like that,” Podoll, 23, said, “and just showing them that we all care, 
and they’re thought of.”
Sarah Gummey, a school counselor at 
W.A. Metcalfe Elementary, said the facul-
ty had hoped Metcalfe would be chosen by Project Makeover for several years.
“We have enough technology at our 
school,” Gummey said. “We have great teachers at our school, and the one thing that we are lacking is a play space for 
most of our students.” UF’s Project Makeover 
draws alumni back to GNVfered free services and activities, such as 
henna tattoos and hopscotch games.
Sophia Vernan, 10, used sidewalk chalk 
to color a bright yellow sun and chunky block letters to make Yopp! Inc.’s Small to Tall 5K Fun Run logo. She said she liked be-ing able to cover the streets in her artwork.
“It’s fun ‘cause you don’t have to worry 
about cars hitting you or anything,” Sophia said.
Other locals lined the streets while they 
listened to live music from bands like the Swamp Cats and the Hungry Hearts Club. Pedestrians picked out frozen custard fla-vors from a SweetBerries pop-up tent. Cy-cling parents strapped their children into bike seats as they meandered through the crowd.
Gail Green, who is in her mid-50s, said 
she enjoyed how interactive the event was. As one of the event’s vendors, Green show-cased her artwork while teaching children and adults how to paint using a reverse-glass technique, which involves painting in layers on the back of glass.
“I hope they keep doing this,” Green 
said. “I would do this every weekend.”
The Active Streets Alliance serves to 
promote active transportation, said Jill Guidera, the director of policy and advo-cacy. Active transportation involves getting 
from one place to another without a vehi-
cle, such as biking, walking and skating.
At Sunday’s event, the alliance surveyed 
participants to see what they want from their streets, the 30-year-old said.
The alliance is working to create wide, 
well-lit sidewalks and safe bike lanes, de-
pending on what the public wants, Guidera 
said.
“Our streets are our public space,” she 
said.
Cara Edwards, 26, the owner of My 
Yoga Connection, located at 117 NW 16th Ave., said she liked to see different people — from a man who just got out of the hos-pital to eager children — enjoy yoga in the 
street.
“Being able to do a headstand right on 
University is kind of a bucket list thing,” Edwards said.4, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015
Ansley Pentz / Alligator 
Aedyn, 6, rides his skateboard next to the Alachua County Public Library on Sunday 
morning. Aedyn was attending Active Streets, an event which closed nine blocks of University Avenue so that people could enjoy the streets without moving vehicles.
CAMPUS
SAVANA MORIE
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s mock trial team, the Liti-Gators, 
once again landed at the top of a regional competition.
The Liti-Gators placed second among 22 
schools in the Georgia Regional Tournament in Atlanta, behind the Georgia Institute of Technology, the weekend of Feb. 14. The team earned seven of the 20 awards and a bid for the Opening Round Champion-ship, the tournament that determines which schools make it to nationals.
This victory follows the two bids earned 
at the Florida Regional Tournament on Feb. 8, making it the most bids the team has earned since its founding in 2007.
The Liti-Gators will compete in the ORCs 
on March 20. Teams of eight to 10 members will act as both attorneys and witnesses and will compete against schools as either the plaintiff or defendant.
Virginia Stanton, president of the Liti-Ga-
tors and a UF philosophy and biology senior, said this was expected to be a rebuilding year because a lot of members graduated.
“I was very adamant about meeting the 
standard that had been set last year, and so far we have exceeded it,” Stanton, 20, said.
Last year was the first time the Liti-Ga-
tors advanced past the ORCs, competed in the National Championship Tournament and ranked among the top 40 teams in the nation.
TK Yang, a member of the team and a UF 
history, philosophy and French senior, said the team works hard together.
“My teammates are really like my fam-
ily,” Yang, 21, said.Liti-Gators pushing for nat’ls
The annual event closed downtown blocks, offered free activities
ACTIVE , from page 1KRISTINA MANUS
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Small Animal Hospital is 
the first facility in Florida to receive a 
top certification for its emergency and critical care facility from the Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care Society.
The hospital was awarded a Level I 
certification by the VECCS in February, said Gareth Buckley, clinical assistant professor of emergency medicine at the UF College of Veterinary Medicine.
The hospital had been working to 
earn the accreditation for six months.
“It’s a fairly rigorous process of certi-
fication,” Buckley said.
One aspect of the certification was 
whether the facility could handle any emergency situation. The hospital treats 
about 4,000 animals per year for emer-
gencies, Buckley said.
The VECCS also took personnel and 
staff training into consideration. The UF Small Animal Hospital has fully certified emergency doctors on staff 24 hours a day, either on-call or at the hospital.
“Having the certification at the vet-
erinary hospital adds prestige to both 
the veterinary college and veterinary 
hospital,” said Jere Stern, a second-year graduate student at the UF College of Veterinary Medicine.
The students in the UF College of Vet-
erinary Medicine have the ability to gain first-hand experience in the Small Ani-mal Hospital’s premiere facilities, Stern, 23, said.Animal hospital accredited
Public university funding currently can’t be used to travel to Cuba
Since a 2006 law was passed in the Florida Legislature, state 
funds have been barred from use in the nation.
The choice to host the research program in Cuba was not 
arbitrary, Behringer said.
“For Cuba, there’s no other place that they share more agri-
cultural similarities with than Florida,” Behringer said.
UF and the University of Havana have had a research agree-ment for year, Behringer said. That agreement was instrumen-tal in starting the study-abroad program.
Currently in Florida, state university funding cannot be 
used to travel to Cuba or other nations considered state-spon-sors of terrorism by the State Department, said Lillian Guerra, a UF history professor, at a lecture Feb. 13 hosted by three Cuban organizations on campus.
Ending the embargo would be transformative, she said. She 
said she is hopeful that President Barack Obama will take Cuba off the list of state-sponsors of terrorism while the Florida Leg-islature is out of session, effectively voiding the 2006 state law.
But for students going this summer, they cannot use Bright 
Futures or other public assistance to cover the nearly $3,000 cost of the trip. Behringer said his program is backed by a pri-vate grant.
The study-abroad program will focus on marine life and 
consist of field studies, lab research and daily excursions in and around Havana. The deadline to apply is March 13. TRAVEL , from page 1GLENN KENNELLY
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF scientist will travel to Aus-
tralia in March to help fight against invasive mosquito species that car-ry threats of disease.   
Phil Lounibos, a UF professor 
of entomology, will host a series of lectures in Queensland, Australia. He said Australia is threatened by the Asian tiger mosquito, which lives in the northern part of the country.
He will explain that the Aedes 
aegypti, or yellow fever mosquito, might get displaced if the Aedes albopictus, or the Asian tiger mos-quito, invades the mainland. He is using his findings of the decrease in 
abundance of the yellow fever mos-
quito in Florida.
Lounibos found that when male 
Asian tiger mosquitoes mate with female yellow fever mosquitoes, the females become sterilized.“This has been the immediate 
cause of the decline of Aedes ae-gypti, not only in Florida, but in probably other parts of the world,” Lounibos said.
Lounibos said Australia and 
Florida have comparable tropical 
and subtropical climates, and they 
both have extensive coastlines, making them vulnerable to the ar-rival of exotic animals and plants arriving by boats and ships.
This can bring diseases like Chikungunya and dengue fever. Roxanne Connelly, a UF associate professor of entomology, said there were outbreaks of dengue, a fever that has symptoms similar to the measles, in Florida about 70 years ago.
“Over time it became less of a 
threat, but still we have the mosqui-tos here that can transmit the virus that causes dengue,” Connelly said.
Connelly said the problem of 
invasive vector mosquitos like the yellow fever and Asian tiger mos-quito is recent, severe and has be-come a large focus.
“The switch is more from those 
pests that really can cause more of a nuisance problem to those that can actually make us sick,” Connelly 
said.
Connelly said she advises peo-
ple to wear insect repellent and do 
yard inspections to get rid of little things that are holding water – and possibly mosquitos.
UF prof working to eradicate mosquito species in AustraliaMONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Eric Heubusch / Alligator 
Author Jacks McNamara, 34, talks with Dave O’Gorman, 45, at Read Local 
about McNamara’s book titled “Inbetweenland.”
CAMPUS
CHELSEY FREEMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Various individuals, organizations and companies 
around Gainesville are fundraising to build a school for 
Deaf children in Qalqilya, Palestine.
In an effort to raise $350,000, the UF Signing Gators, an 
on-campus organization that teaches students about Deaf 
culture and communication, hopes to give Deaf children 
in Palestine an education beyond a ninth-grade level.
This an ongoing project, and they currently have 
$7,900. There is a link on the Build a Deaf School website for people to donate.
Sarah Reichert, Signing Gators event coordinator and a UF telecommunication senior, said she wants to raise awareness for the Deaf children in Palestine to give them better opportunities as they grow up.
“We as UF students — little nobodies if you will — 
have the opportunity to make a difference to people half-way across the world,” Reichert, 22, said.
Steve Kalishman, the president of Sister City Program 
of Gainesville, visited Qalqilya in 2010 and left with the intention of increasing the level of education and giving students new facilities.
“If we raise the $350,000, they’ll have everything they 
need to build a brand new, state-of-the-art facility, and have all their operational expenses covered,” Kalishman said.This facility is the only Deaf school in Palestine and 
one of a few in the entire Middle East. Kalishman said if a new one was to be constructed, people of Palestine and all around the world would visit to show support.
“We’re not only helping them build a building, but to 
create a self-sustaining program and to allow our students and teachers over here to work with them in the future on 
all kinds of collaborative projects,” Kalishman said.
Reichert and Kalishman said they urge UF students to 
visit the website and donate anything they can.
“It just absolutely blows my mind that I have the pow-
er to make a difference in somebody’s life that I have no 
plans to ever meet,” Reichert said. “A little person can make a big difference.”UF Signing Gators rally to contribute to Deaf school-building
ERIC HEUBUSCH
Alligator Contributing Writer
Local artists gathered at 
the Civic Media Center on Sat-
urday to share their writing.
The Wild Iris, a local femi-
nist bookstore, produced Read Local, an open house for six Gainesville-area authors to meet with readers and read their work aloud.
“(We) really just want 
to get new readers into the store, let people know we have great, amazing local, au-thors,” co-owner Erica Merrell said.
The authors each chose a 
paragraph from their books to read on stage that afternoon.
Rhonda Riley explained the 
challenge of engaging readers with her novel, “The Enchant-ed Life of Adam Hope,” in a short amount of time.
“The major thing that I 
take away from it is trying to quickly tell them about the book and do it in a way that’s engaging and hopefully makes them more interested,” Riley said.
Part of Riley’s book is set in 
Gainesville. Sandra Lambert, another author, set her novel, “The River’s Memory,” in an area similar to Ocala.
“It’s such a great place to 
be a writer,” Lambert said of Gainesville.
The authors also got the 
chance to mingle with fellow writers at the reading.
Donavaun Horne and Shi-
ra Glassman, both authors, discussed their writing tech-niques and cracked jokes be-fore the event.
“I’ve lived in Gainesville 
for most of my life,” Horne said. “It just has a really nice community feel to it, and I just feel like I really connect to the people here.” Read Local event brings area 
authors together, love on GNV  THE BAN APPLIES TO SPICE.
EMILY CARDINALI
Alligator Staff Writer ecardinali@alligator.org
Gainesville City Commission ad-
vanced both a ban on synthetic drugs 
and a plan for pedestrian access to Northwest Eighth Avenue during Thurs-day’s meeting.
Commission members unanimously 
made the first of two necessary approv-als on an ordinance that bans the posses-sion with intent to sell, display for sale or manufacture of synthetic drugs in Gainesville.
The Gainesville-Alachua County 
Drug Task Force proposed this ordi-nance in August to combat the increased use of synthetic drugs around the state, said Lt. Matt Nechodom, a member of the task force. The proposal came after 
a local case during the summer when 
several people were sent to the hospital after smoking synthetic marijuana, also known as spice.
The ordinance will ban the sale of 
synthetic drugs with chemical composi-tions that mimic any drugs on the con-trolled substances list in Florida statutes. It includes synthetic cannabinoids and 
synthetic cathinones, which are some-times known as bath salts.
Previously, some of these drugs came 
in packages labeled “not for human use” 
with a catchy name. The new ordinance would require synthetic drugs’ packag-ing to fully list what is in them, where they are manufactured and what they react with, said Nechodom.
A violation of the ordinance would 
result in a $250 civil fine. If a person is found with multiple packages of the synthetic drugs, each package counts as an individual fine.
Nechodom said he doesn’t see this 
having a huge impact on students.
“There is an exception to everything,” 
Nechodom said, “but we’ve never really 
seen the student population as the cli-
ents.”
The commission also approved the 
design for pedestrian access on North-west Eighth Avenue. In a 4-3 vote, the commission approved a plan  for 10-foot, shared-use paths on both sides of the road with medians in a predeter-mined crossing area. 
Mayor Ed Braddy said this would be 
the best option because it includes the four-vehicle lanes that residents prefer; accommodates traffic, including emer-gency vehicles; and provides space for pedestrians and cyclists.Commission: ban on drugs, 
wider 8th Avenue sidewalksIFAS
A UF associate professor and beef cattle spe-
cialist received a national award for his contri-
butions to the field of animal science.
Matthew Hersom received 
the Southern Section Extension 
Award given by the American 
Society of Animal Science on Feb. 2.
Hersom focuses on beef cattle 
nutrition and management to re-search the effects of feeding strat-egies on beef cattle production.
“It’s always nice to be recognized for your 
efforts, but it’s also nice to be recognized for the 
efforts that beef cattle extension is taking on in 
Florida,” he said.
— KRISTINE JANATA
Veterinary
A UF veterinary student was the first in 
UF’s history to win a national competition that 
recognizes business excellence in veterinary medicine.
On Jan. 18, Geoffrey Landau, 
26, a fourth-year student at the UF College of Veterinary Medi-cine, was announced the winner of the Simmons Business Apti-tude Award.
In the annual competition, 
each school picks a recipient for a $3,000 scholarship. Those chosen move on to compete in the national level.
Out of 17 other candidates, Landau took the 
$15,000 grand prize.
“It was a moment of shock and surprise. It was really good to know because I know I put a lot of time into it, and I know everyone else competing did as well,” Landau said.
— VERONICA GARCIA
Accounting
Devin Williams, a fourth-year Ph.D. stu-
dent of business administration in account-
ing, was one of 10 students in the country chosen to receive a Deloitte Foundation 2015 Doctoral Fellowship in Accounting.
The foundation awards $25,000 to 10 in-
dividuals who plan to pursue academic ca-reers after graduation.
To qualify, one must com-
plete two semesters as a gradu-ate student enrolled in and suc-cessfully pursuing a doctoral program in accounting at an ac-credited U.S. university, wrote 
Amy Gautschi, senior manager 
of communications at Deloitte, in an email.
One student from each of the top 100 re-
search universities in the country is nomi-nated by accounting faculty members at their respective schools. Four members of a committee comprised of accounting educa-tors then choose the 10 winners, Gautschi 
wrote.
This is the first time a UF student has re-
ceived the award, Williams said.
He said his 30-plus-page application took 
him months to compile before he submitted 
everything in October.
“My first goal is to be placed at a top re-
search university,” Williams said. “The end goal is to make the world better.”
— MIKAYLA MOTTUF celebrates notable Gators
“It’s such a great 
place to be a writer.”
Sandra Lambert
authorHersom
Landau
Williams
Reader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
47 TOTAL VOTES23% YES
77% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgFriday’s question: Did you celebrate the 
Chinese New Year?Today’s question: Would you study abroad in Cuba?Endorsement:
 Access Party
At the risk of exaggeration, this Spring’s Student Govern-
ment campaign has been one of the saltiest and most dramatic in the history of this campus. Now that it’s all 
going down, it’s high time we go public with our party endorse-ment.
The Editorial Board endorses the Access Party.Let’s preface this by saying the men and women on each 
ticket clearly want what’s best for the Student Body, and their dedication is reflected in their platforms. Both are strong, and would make UF a better place to live and learn.
One thing stood out to us about Access: their commitment 
to accountability. They would require student senators to hold town hall meetings and office hours throughout the semester as well as open up all student organization funding records for 
students to browse. But they would also — this is what really 
got us hot and bothered — give up the $50,000 salary split by the top six SG officials. This wouldn’t be a statutory change; the candidates, if elected, would choose to opt out of the payment and hope future leaders follow suit. 
They’re also pushing for online voting and a Chief Diver-
sity Officer as an addition to the UF administration. This officer would exclusively handle inclusivity of minority communities — an aspect that both parties agree needs work on campus.
Swamp’s platform has its own points of merit. It was well-
researched — a product of the candidates’ years of experience knowing what is and is not feasible in SG. Most notably, the idea (not listed in the official platform) to include a “Platform Track-er” — as explained by presidential candidate Joseph Michaels as an online tool that would illustrate platform progress — is an excellent way to hold student leaders accountable. We also ap-preciate the emphasis on student safety, and hell, they want to make hammock rentals a thing.
But the important thing to remember is this: This election 
isn’t just about platforms. Both are solid, and making a choice on that alone would be tough. 
A look at SG’s history is enough to give the extra push in Ac-
cess’ direction. Swamp has proven repeatedly to be a party that is, bluntly, corrupt, and mainly serves the interests of those al-ready involved in prominent student organizations. Though we support some points of its platform, we cannot endorse a party with a history of such unethical and undemocratic behavior as 
Swamp’s and its many iterations.
Access’ candidates believe they’re fighting the good fight. 
Their idealism is refreshing, even if we fear it may be a weakness 
down the line. For now, though, this sort of perspective is ex-actly what SG needs. We sincerely hope the Access candidates, if elected, continue striving to represent all students and avoid disillusionment from the bureaucracy that is university politics. 
Regardless of your thoughts on this endorsement, we urge 
you to go vote. As is said every year, SG controls millions of 
your dollars. But unlike past years, there is a legitimate competi-
tion here, with two qualified parties with qualified candidates and platforms that, if implemented, can improve student life.
What SG needs to achieve the levels of transparency and ac -
countability students are promised is a change in mentality, a change in status quo and a change in leadership. Closer than ever to past and present
Last week I got the opportunity to experience something few students do in their time here at UF: Library East. 
No, I didn’t get my directions mixed up: I’m talking 
about the building that is slightly to the right and much 
more impressive.
Smathers Library, as it was renamed in 1991, is just 
a couple of steps away from the beloved Club West. 
But few people seem to realize it is actually there; the 
library is one of the most overlooked treasures at UF. 
While it does not have the many studying accommoda-tions and a 24-hour Starbucks like its counterpart, this historic building has its own claims to fame.
Among its many impressive contents, Smathers Li-
brary is home to the Latin American and Caribbean Collection, which is considered among the finest in the world of its kind for its extensive assemblage of histori-cal and current volumes and documents.
Also housed under the library’s Department of Spe-
cial and Area Studies Collections is the Baldwin Library of Historical Children’s Literature, among the greatest in the world. It has more than 130,000 books and draws in scholars worldwide.
I’ve held one of the first printings of the Adventures 
of Huckleberry Finn in my hands and perused through the collections of poems by the late British poet W. B. Yeats as part of class curriculums.
But the most amazing thing of all is that unlike many 
other libraries that take special precautions to preserve their books — making their visitors wear gloves in or-der to handle their collection pieces — Smathers Library follows no such protocol.
While there are some pieces in the immense collec-
tion that do require special care, the majority of the books are available to read, touch and experience sans barriers.
In a world detached from its not-so-immediate real-
ity, this library allows you to touch a piece of history in a way few others do.
By holding in our hands books published decades and even centuries ago, we hold history in our hands as well. But few know this is something they can experience in the first place.
Just as such, there is so much 
going on all around us that for one reason or another we do not recognize. We go through what many like to call an information overload: We see so many things, whether it be in real life or on our screens, that we can only devote so much time to each of them before we scroll or avert our eyes.
As fellow college students we briefly mourned the 
lost lives of the students at the University of North Car-olina at Chapel Hill, but soon, what will we make of 
this? Try as we might, there is an inevitable, if uninten-
tional, need to move forward. But that is not to say we should forget and remain idle.
Technological advances have made the world small-
er and added greater barriers than ever before. While we can find out in minutes when an airstrike happens halfway across the world, from that very distance a man can now control that attack with a drone. These advances that arguably save lives on both sides of the 
violent encounter are also adding degrees of separation 
between us and those whose lives we directly affect. Will we further distance ourselves from the realities that surround us and force history to repeat itself from lessons unlearned?
While we may not always have the ability, time or 
resources to always be in the know of all events past and present, I urge you to try. 
The information and the means to do something 
about whatever it is we deem important are out there, but we often lack the curiosity and the will. Our past is just as important as what is going on around us right now, and the opportunities to learn about ourselves and the world around us should be taken eagerly and with-out hesitation. 
Sol Angel Canal is a UF English junior. Her column ap-
pears on Mondays.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORSol Angel Canal
opinions@alligator.org MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 7Letter to the Editor
On Saturday evening, the Innovation Academy 
(IA) Ambassadors held a UF Student Government 
Town Hall in preparation for the upcoming elec-
tions. IA students have been underrepresented 
and largely voiceless in SG since the program be-gan, and this event was an attempt to change that. The expectation was to have Access and Swamp 
Party executive candidates address concerns per-
taining to Innovation Academy as a panel.
Students were able to email questions prior to 
the debate, and a group of IA Ambassadors chose questions with a preference for those pertaining to 
the Innovation Academy. In addition, there were 
index cards available at the event for the audience to submit additional questions. The event was to be moderated by the Assistant Director of the In-
novation Academy.
Both parties were notified of the event’s loca-
tion, time and logistics at the same time — Thurs-
day at about 10:30 p.m. — and in the same manner — through email and Facebook messaging. All Ac-
cess Party executive candidates were present and 
prepared to answer any and all questions, along with both of the IA students on their Senate slate.
The Swamp Party president and presidential 
candidate were also present. However, they stated that they were not prepared for this type of event, and that they would not participate unless the event’s format changed because Swamp Party was not comfortable answering the questions prepared 
by IA students and approved by the moderator. 
This issue delayed the start of the event by 30 min-utes.
In an effort to accommodate Swamp’s requests, 
we changed the format of the event. IA Ambas-sadors sat on a panel to answer questions from the audience, including the SG candidates, in addition to offering potential suggestions to both parties.
We apologize to Access as this change was last 
minute, and it was not given a chance to properly address IA concerns. We apologize to all attend-ees for the disorganization of this event and the way in which it unfolded. 
It is a shame that IA students in attendance 
were not able to address their executive candi-dates as they had hoped.
We encourage you to research both parties and 
their platforms before elections. Voting will take 
place Tuesday and Wednesday from 8:30 a.m. to 
8:30 p.m. at various polling locations around cam-pus. 
I hope that every student, IA or otherwise, 
understands the power of his or her voice in this election.
Sincerely,
David Nassau
Ambassador – Innovation Academy
Take a moment to reflect back on the 2012 presidential race and the criti-cisms that plagued the Romney cam-
paign. 
Many pundits and political operatives la-
beled Romney as out of touch with everyday Americans, 
too rich to be president and in bed with big corporations 
and individuals who use their wealth to influence elec-tions on a grand scale. 
Their concerns were considered legitimate and note-
worthy enough; news outlets bombarded us with them for months on end, which ultimately had an impact on the election.
Come back to the present day, and consider the front-
runner for the Democratic ticket, Hillary Clinton. It was 
revealed this week that since 2001, the Bill, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton Foundation, an organization that con-ducts charity projects worldwide, had raised nearly $2 billion at the end of 2014. 
While this is an outstanding amount of money that 
will do good things in the world, it comes at a price for Americans who would want a president without any political favors to pay back.
A good chunk of this money, as the Washington Post 
described it, has come from “a vast global network that includes corporate titans, political donors, foreign gov-ernments and other wealthy interests.” 
Clinton is happy to take the money now in the pur-
suit of charity, but later on down the line, especially if she wins the presidency in 2016, these donors could come knocking to ask for political favors and special treatment that may not be in the best interests of every-
day Americans.
In fact, these donors are already receiving special 
treatment from Ready for Hillary, a group encouraging 
Clinton to run. 
A Washington Post review of the Clinton Founda-
tion’s finances has found that “nearly half of the ma-jor donors who are backing Ready for Hillary ... as well as nearly half of the bundlers from her 2008 campaign, 
have given at least $10,000 to the foundation, either on 
their own or through foundations or companies they run.” 
Money, regardless of ideology or party, has and al-
ways will have influence in politics, and to think that Clinton is immune from its power is naive and just plain ignorant.
You might ask: Why don’t foreign governments and 
individuals just give to the Clinton campaign when it is underway? 
Wouldn’t that get them more influence? 
It would, if it were possible. 
The Federal Election Campaign Act pro-
hibits candidates from receiving money 
from foreign governments, political parties, corpora-tions, associations and individuals.
 As a loophole to get around these restrictions, foreign 
entities go to the next best source: the Clinton Founda-tion. They pad the Clintons’ wallets with donations and, without a doubt, will one day come to capitalize on their investment.
You then might say: Well, at least Clinton isn’t in bed 
with big banks, lawyers and other large corporations, unlike greedy and evil conservatives. I’d advise you to think again. 
During Hillary Clinton’s career in politics, four out of 
the five largest contributions to her political endeavors have come from big corporations, including Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, DLA Piper and JPMorgan Chase. These donations amount to a combined total of more than $2.7 
million. 
When money is that big, money talks, and you can 
rest assured it will influence Clinton if she becomes the 
next president.
You then might grasp at straws and proclaim that at 
least she understands the daily struggles many Ameri-cans face. 
This too is preposterous when you find out that since 
she and Bill left the White House back in 2000, she ac-
crued a net worth of between $10 million and $50 mil-
lion. She’s been able to make $300,000 for giving a single speech. 
So, it’s laughable to propose that she understands the 
average American life, where wages have become stag-nant and the job market is still not roaring in growth. In the 2016 race, she is perhaps the most out-of-touch candidate.
Don’t allow for double standards, and hold Clinton 
to the same principles and criticisms that all too often only seem to be targeted at conservative candidates. We deserve a president who has America as his or her No. 1 priority and has no financial connection to foreign in-
terests. 
Hillary Clinton does not meet that criteria, and un-
like her attitude toward most things, it does make a dif-
ference.
Nick Eagle is a UF economics and political science senior. 
His column appears on Mondays.Financial interests cloud the Clinton 
campaign, mirror Romney criticismsColumn
Nick Eagle
opinions@alligator.orgJORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Gabrielle Heffernan didn’t al-
ways plan to pursue a career in ar-
chitecture.
But after taking a class called 
Architecture and Humanity during 
her freshman year at UF, Heffernan 
decided to make the switch.
“I realized that even though I 
really do love the technical side of things, I couldn’t be satisfied in a career where I wasn’t making things with my hands on a daily basis and really getting creative,” Heffernan, 20, said.
Now a junior, Heffernan has the 
opportunity to get the hands-on ex-perience she wanted. She is one of about 70 students building a fully livable solar-powered house as part of the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon, which will be held from Oct. 8 to Oct. 18 in Irvine, Cali-fornia.
UF was one of 20 schools select-
ed in February 2014 to participate in the program, said Bradley Walters, a UF architecture professor and one of the faculty advisers of UF’s team.
The specifications of the house 
are detailed, but the goal is simple: All of the energy used in the house will be derived from the sun.
Solar thermal tubing will be 
the main source for heating up the house’s water, while 21 solar panels lining the roof will provide the en-
ergy for just about everything else.
The UF group is working on the 
project in conjunction with Santa Fe 
College and the National Univer-sity of Singapore.
Students from Singapore came 
to UF last summer to help with the project, and Heffernan said the two groups had similar design logic 
because Gainesville and Singapore 
have similar climates.
But, Heffernan said, the Sin-
gapore students took different approaches to house-building be-cause of the country’s construction norms.
“It was interesting to kind of see 
those two come together and really 
see how we could use that combi-
nation to make the best house that 
we could,” she said.
Walters and a couple students 
started working on initial plans during Spring 2014, but the project 
didn’t fully take off until Summer.
Bobby Smith, a first-year UF ar-
chitecture graduate student, said 
the goal of the Summer semester was to create the main schematics for the house.
“We did a lot of small-scale de-
sign,” said Smith, 23. “Over time, we came into groups and started to make group decisions and then 
merged into one decision.”The cost to build the house is 
about $200,000, Walters said, and 
does not include travel to California for the competition.
Walters said prices have in-
creased because of specifications 
the competition is requiring in the house, such as a sprinkler system 
and safety factors with the house’s decking.
“We think realistically, if we 
were going to build this kind of house here on a site in Florida, it 
would be much more economical,” 
Walters said. “But we’re building it in a modular way to meet the com-petition requirements.”
The group’s toughest goal, Hef-
fernan said, is figuring out how to get the house to California in a cost-efficient manner.
They are building the house in a 
series of five modules, which they will practice putting together and taking apart at Santa Fe prior to heading to California, Heffernan said. The individual modules will be craned onto trucks and driven to California, where the group will reassemble it on-site.
“You don’t just put it together 
like ‘Oh, maybe it’ll work,’” she 
said. “No, it has to work.”
Smith and Heffernan both said 
the experience gained from the 
project has been invaluable.
“I didn’t think when I started 
here I’d be building a house,” Smith said. “That’s not cheap and it’s pretty hard. But I’m so glad I have the opportunity to do this.”8, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Taken from an aerial, remote-control drone, this photo shows Swamp Head Brewery’s solar 
panel installation mounted on the roof of the building.
Courtesy to the Alligator
A rendering depicts the driveway area of the Solar Living House, a house a group of about 70 UF students will help create as part of the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon. The house will be completely powered by solar energy and presented from Oct. 8-18 in Irvine, California, for the competition.
GIUSEPPE SABELLA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Solar power is booming in America, but a 
lack of solar-incentives may hold Florida back.     
Since 2008, wind and solar capacity — a 
term that describes a system’s highest pos-
sible electric output — tripled, according to a 
Bloomberg report this month.
Even though Florida’s potential for so-
lar energy use is third in the nation, the state 
ranks No. 13 for actual solar capacity installed, according to the Solar Energy Industries Asso-ciation, which keeps a running record of solar capacity.
Locally, solar technology is struggling to grow because of a lack of incentives.
In 2009, Gainesville Regional Utilities be-
gan the Solar Feed-in-tariff program where customers with solar technology could sell energy back to GRU under a 20-year contract.
This incentive inspired Kurt Johnsen to 
open Kurt Johnsen Energy Systems.  
He said the majority of his customers were 
motivated to try solar because of the program, and business plunged when it halted in 2013.     
Incentives will continue to decrease if the federal government does not renew the Solar Investment Tax Credit that gives solar custom-ers, commercial and residential, a 30-percent return on the full cost of their purchases of so-lar equipment. 
The federal program started in 2006 and 
was scheduled to expire in 2007, but several 
extensions caused an increase in solar installa-
tions of more than 1,600 percent, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association.
Without another extension, residents won’t 
be eligible for a tax credit after Dec. 31, 2016, and the commercial credit will be reduced to 10 percent.                      
Currently, Florida’s greatest incentive is 
the net-metering policy, which reduces energy bills by crediting customers for excess solar energy, Johnsen said. Despite challenges, the future of solar in Florida is bright.          
For example, Solar Impact of Gainesville 
recently installed the largest solar system in Marion County, covering 50,000 square feet of a commercial rooftop.          
Barry Jacobson, president of Solar Impact, 
said the suspended feed-in-tariff caused a blow to the company as well, but business still climbed over the years. Customers are moti-vated by the idea of benefiting the environ-ment by reducing carbon emissions and ben-efiting their wallets with net-metering, he said.
“Solar doesn’t follow the sun,” he said. “It 
follows the money.”UF students build livable solar-powered house for competition
Business owners: Without incentives, FL solar energy won’t grow
More solar panels expected
But that is by no means enough to 
power Swamp Head’s 30-barrel brew 
system.
“This is phase one of many phases,” 
Kemper said.
Jacobson said the brewery has 
enough room to install about 100 more 
panels.
The project cost Swamp Head about 
$45,000, but Jacobson said the brewery 
will see a good return on investment through tax benefits and lower energy 
costs.
Dan Fox, a UF marketing senior, 
went to the brewery on Valentine’s Day 
for its strawberry chocolate brew.
A lover of craft beer, Fox, 21, said 
the fact that the brewery cares about the environment will keep him and other environmentally conscious stu-dents coming back.
“It definitely adds a great selling 
point for their brand,” he said.
Christine Denny, a co-founder of 
First Magnitude Brewing Co., said so-lar energy is a resource her brewery will look into down the road.
Both breweries are partnered with 
We Are Neutral, an initiative by local nonprofit Earth Givers that aims to off-set organizations’ carbon footprints.
Swamp Head has also put about 
one acre of land on the west side of its 
property into conservation. Kemper 
said he wants to keep the land as pris-tine as possible.
“It’s also a natural beauty that peo-
ple can look at from our tasting room,” he said.SWAMP , from page 1SOLAR
“Solar doesn’t follow the sun. It 
follows the money.”
Barry Jacobson
president of Solar ImpactCatchin ’ Ra ysMONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff Mystery Meat
Fan Zhang (left), 24, and Xuesong Ding, 21, both UF students , and Darren Lane, 44, ﬁ  ll plates from a buffet 
including buffalo, python and elk meat Saturday during the Beast Feast, a fundraising dinner held by the UF Wildlife Society at the Whitehurst Lodge in Archer. For video coverage of the event, visit alligator.org.
 IT WAS THE SECOND 
ANNUAL FLORIDA SUMMIT.
OLIVIA VEGA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students from all over the 
state gathered in Pugh Hall 
this past weekend for the Fu-ture of Florida Summit.
About 100 students learned 
how to run an effective politi-cal campaign, but the confer-ence was focused speciﬁ  cally on the Online Voter Registra-tion bill, which will be voted on in the upcoming Florida legislative session, which starts March 8.
The conference kicked 
off  Friday with a welcome from UF Provost Joe Glover. Then, students launched into a whirlwind of activity until Sunday afternoon.
Stephen Paolini, an 18-year-
old UF sustainability fresh-man, said he enjoyed what the conference had to offer.“I think the diversity and 
quality of the speakers is really top-notch,” Paolini said.
Students heard from speak-
ers from various parts of the legislative process, including Florida Sen. Jeff Clemens and Deirdre Macnab, president of 
the League of Women Voters.
“I try to speak to students 
as much as possible because 
I think they’re the future of the state and the future of the country,” said Macnab, in her third term as president. “This was a meeting of change-mak-ers.”
In addition to speakers, 
students participated in a case-study competition and attended workshops on top-ics such as online advocacy and political grassroots move-ments.
Frances Chapman, one of 
the conference student orga-
nizers and a UF political sci-
ence junior, said she hopes to see a topic more controversial than online voter registration at next year’s conference.
She said that while the con-
ference is only in its second year, she has high hopes for the future.
“Our name recognition is 
only going to go up,” Chap-man, 20, said. “I think it’s just indicative of the wonderful 
things that could come out of 
our university.”Conference focuses 
on Florida online voter registration bill
RESEARCH
SOPHIA KARNEGIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
A study has linked potential 
health beneﬁ  ts to the consump-
tion of red wine made from native grapes.
The research, conducted by 
Oregon State University and sup-ported by UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, suggests that consuming red wine or grape juice made from muscadines in modera-tion could potentially improve the complications associated with obe-sity. The results were published in the January issue of the Journal of Nutritional Biochemistry.
Muscadine grapes, native to the 
southeastern U.S., are different from the grapes used in French wines, said Liwei Gu, a food science and human nutrition associate professor.
“If you think chardonnay or mer-
lot is the horse, the muscadine grape is the donkey,” Gu said.
Muscadine grapes are known to 
grow in hot, humid climates, which concentrates antioxidants in the fruit, Gu said. According to the ﬁ  nd-ings, they have proven to have valu-able anti-inﬂ  ammatory abilities, but as of now, they cannot be directly linked to weight loss.
Maurice Marshall, a UF food sci-
ence and human nutrition professor, has extensively studied the seeds and skins of muscadine grapes to analyze their antioxidant levels.
According to his research, mus-
cadine grapeseed oil is responsible for preventing fat accumulation in human cells.
“(Muscadine grapes) are known 
to inhibit oxygen reactions,” Mar-shall said. “It wouldn’t surprise me to ﬁ  nd that they can affect other me-tabolisms.”
Wine potentially good for health“I try to speak to 
students as much as 
possible because I think 
they’re the future of the 
state and the future of 
the country.”
Deirdre Macnab
League of Women Voters 
presidentMONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
UTW Furnished Condo 4bed 4bath W/D all 
utilities, on short bus route to UF 1yr lease starting August 15 $375/mo per student. 352-586-6468     3-9-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    2-25-15-20-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse Double balcony;One left! $1600/mo. 352-505-5049www.crosskeysproperties.com       2-27-15-10-2★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  
Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. 
Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    
2-27-15-7-2
1 BR / 1 BR - $650/month incl. utilities
Oaks Condos - behind mall / Starbucks6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable 1st floor unit. Lots of parking.Easy walk to mall, dining, RTS bus stop.On-site gym, pool, laundry facility.Contact (352) 219-5351 for info.    3-17-12-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
UNIVERSITY HOUSE APT (for re-let)5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent includes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $725/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-13-15-10-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-20-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
12, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015
Babysitter wanted - for children ages 6 to 
12. Mostly weekday afternoon/evening times. Help with homework, light house-keeping. $12/hr. Email resume and refer-ences to rosenson@ufl.edu.    2-24-15-5-14
Student wanted to assist elderly woman with meals. Part time on weekends. Five minute drive from campus. $15/hr. Call Rosemary 703-638-0295 or hilleyjohn@yahoo.com    2-26-15-5-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
Now hiring all positions. Experience manda -
tory. Earn top pay in a family work environ -
ment. Apply in person 5 SE 2nd Ave.    2-27-
15-5-14
babysitter - cooking skills, reliable,
organised, references, flexible hours 
avgeorgieva@yahoo.com     2-27-15-5-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with
a love for children to staff its
summer camp program.
Positions in the camp are available in our
elementary school age day camps and
some half-day specialty camp programs.
Summer Dates are June 8-July 24 and
day camp employees
must be available for all dates.
For a complete listing of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interested applicants should submit a
resume to Buffy McTureous via e-mail at
bmctuerous@oakhall.org by March 13th.
Interview information regarding
group interview on March 14th
will be sent out upon receipt.
3-13-15-10-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
Professional resume writing to get you hired. 
Student Rates: $49 only, forResume, Cover Letter and Follow up Letter.www.arcaderesumes.com    2-24-15-5-15US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Shop Local. Shop SmallSmall Business Craft ShowMarch 14, 2015; 10 am to 3 pmCymply Fresh/Cymple Room5408 NW 8th Avenue        3-13-13-20
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
"Guinea Keets and chicks for sale! Keets 
starting at $3.70, as low as $1.70, chicks as low as $1.10. 717-340-1034 or www.ChickensDirect.NET"    3-13-10-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Women’s golf finishes first round in New Orleans
The UF women’s golf team is in seventh place after 
shooting a 9-over-297 in the first round of the AllState Sugar Bowl Intercollegiate in New Orleans.Briana Little hit three home runs as the UF softball team swept Mercer on Sunday. Read the story on page 15.JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
With the deciding game of No. 6 
Florida’s series against No. 8 Miami 
tied 1-1 in the bottom of the fourth, 
Harrison Bader stepped up to the plate.
After starting the season hitting .600 
with three home runs and 14 RBIs, the junior outfielder had struggled in the 
Miami series, going a combined 1-for-
8 up to that point with two strikeouts.
But in the fourth inning on Sunday 
and facing a full count, Bader laced a pitch from Miami starter Enrique Sosa 
into the left-field bleachers at McKeth-
an Stadium to secure a 2-1 victory and the series.
“I found myself in a lot of two-strike 
counts,” Bader said. “It’s kind of how 
the game goes sometimes. You can 
never lose that battling aspect at the plate. You’re not out until you get three strikes, so I was just trying to put a good swing on the ball, and I was lucky 
to get one out.”
Dane Dunning earned his second 
win of the season, pitching five hitless 
innings and striking out four in his sec-ond career start for the Gators (6-1).
But it wasn’t smooth sailing early 
for the sophomore righty.
After retiring the first five batters 
he faced, Dunning proceeded to walk three consecutive batters in the top of the second to load the bases.
Miami (5-2) then opened scoring 
when George Iskenderian scored from 
third on a passed ball, giving the Hurri-
canes a 1-0 lead without recording a hit.
“I just started scattering balls and 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Harrison Bader bats against Miami. The junior outfielder, who struggled against the Hurricanes in the first two games of the series, hit a 
solo home run in the fourth inning on Sunday to give the Gators a 2-1 win. Florida won two of three games in the series.
Home run, efficient pitching give Gators edge against Miami
RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
R. Kelly saw nothing wrong 
with a little bumping, but the 
NCAA did on Friday.
After an investigation 
stemming from a violation 
of NCAA bylaw 13.1.1.1 that 
ended up leading to the resig-nation of former Florida wide receivers coach Joker Phillips in June of 2014, a Committee on Infractions from college sports’ governing body decided not to impose any penalties for a lev-el-II violation — one the NCAA 
deems significant. It found what the school did 
was enough in dealing with the 
situation: UF ceased recruiting of the player in question, a wide receiver who signed with a power-five school and was, ac-cording to a report released by the committee, highly regarded by UF. 
The school also suspended 
Phillips for 30 days.
“The University of Florida 
Athletic Association takes pride in the culture of compli-ance it has built over the years. Integrity is one of the core val-UF not penalized in 
Joker Phillips caseSWIMMING
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
For the third straight year, the 
UF men’s swimming and diving 
team finished on top.
The top-ranked Gators ended 
the five-day Southeastern Confer-ence Championships with a meet-high 1,314.5 points on Saturday, nearly 200 points higher than sec-ond-place Georgia.
Two individual titles and an 
SEC record relay time catapulted Florida to the top spot.
The men’s team started the competition with a program- and conference-best time in the 800-yard freestyle relay, touching the 
wall in 6:12.85.
UF also had individual wins 
from Caeleb Dressel (100-yard 
butterfly, 45.28 seconds) and Mitch D’Arrigo (500-yard Free-style, 4:10.77). Both times ranked second in UF history.
“It was a great week,” coach 
Gregg Troy said in a release. “We 
stood up and raced tough the 
whole way. (Saturday) was a great way to finish.”
The fourth-ranked women’s 
team finished third in the 12-team field for the fourth-straight year.
The Gators won four individ-
ual titles, highlighted by Natalie Hinds’ 100-yard freestyle victory 
on Saturday.
After placing sixth in the 50-
yard freestyle on Wednesday, the junior took the top spot in the 100 
free in a program-best 47.26 sec-onds.
“I was nervous going in, but 
what I learned from the 50 (free-style) is that I need to relax. That’s what coach Troy told me. In the prelims this morning, I just need-ed to do what I know I can and tonight, I just needed to stay re-laxed,” Hinds said. “I just wanted to do the best that I could and I 
was really hurting towards the 
end so I just went as fast as pos-sible.”
Overall, Florida secured 25 ‘A’ 
cuts, which are guaranteed UF spots in the NCAA Champion-ships.
“In the end, this is just another 
swim meet, as we have to go back 
to work on Monday and make 
sure we’re ready for the next one,” Troy said.UF men’s team wins SEC championship
SEE PHILLIPS, PAGE 16SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 16
“It was a great week. We 
stood up and raced tough 
the whole way. (Saturday) 
was a great way to finish.”
Gregg Troy
UF swimming and diving coach
Poll Results from Friday’s Questions
Will Billy Donovan earn his 500th career win as a head 
basketball coach against LSU on Saturday?33.3% YES
66.7% NO
12 total votes14, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator
ABOVE: Shannon Gilroy runs toward the net during Florida’s 17-7 win against San Diego 
State on Friday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
BELOW: Miami’s Carl Chester slides into third base for a triple during Miami’s 7-2 win 
against Florida on Saturday at McKethan Stadium. The Gators won the other two games in the series, winning 4-3 on Friday and 2-1 on Sunday.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Mike Rivera fist bumps volunteer coach Lars Davis af-ter hitting a single on Saturday. On the season, Rivera, a freshman, is hitting .286 with four RBIs.Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF freshman Aleshia Ocasio pitches during No. 1 Florida’s 4-1 win against Illinois State on Saturday at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. This season, Ocasio is 4-0 in the circle and has struck out 41 batters in 28.2 innings of work.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
The UF softball team runs out to home plate to celebrate Lauren Haeger’s home run during the Gators’ win against Illinois State on Saturday. The Gators hit 16 home runs during its five games this weekend, outscoring opponents by a combined 52-8 score.Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff UF HIT 10 HOME RUNS ON 
SUNDAY.
LUIS TORRES
Alligator Writer @LFTorresIII
Briana Little had the best offen-
sive performance in the 19-year his-
tory of the Florida softball program.
Little hit three home runs and 
drove in nine runs, both UF single-
game records, as No. 1 Florida 
crushed Mercer 20-3 in five innings via run rule in its first game against the Bears on Sunday.  UF won the second game 10-3 to improve to 16-0 on the season.
“I just was really excited to get 
into the game and be ready,” Little said. “I was just going up there look-
ing for good pitches to hit hard.”
In total, UF hit 10 home runs in 
the two games against the Bears, 
which is a far cry from what Walton likes to do with playing small ball and manufacturing runs.
“You can’t defend them,” Wal-
ton said. “And to have them from a lot of different players and multiple 
home runs, again very rewarding to 
see that middle of the lineup just be so powerful.”  
Little began her record-setting 
day with a two-run home run in the first inning to give the Gators a 5-0 lead. 
In her second at bat, Little would 
a grand slam in the second inning to 
cap off a six-run inning, with all the 
runs coming with two outs to make it 11-1 UF.After a 1-2-3 inning in the top of 
the third, Little came up to the plate in the fourth and smashed a three-run home run to put Florida up 14-1.
Entering the day, the Middle-
burg native had zero home runs and one RBI on the season.
“(I) thought her swings were good,” coach Tim Walton said. “Re-ally happy that she answered the call on a start like that. … Her at-bats are solid and happy and pleased for her to set those records.”
All in all, Florida had six home 
runs in the first game: three by Little, one by Lauren Haeger, which was the sixth of her season and the 58th of her career. Haeger is now seven home runs away from tying Megan Bush’s program record of 65.
Freshman Janell Wheaton hit a 
grand slam in the fifth inning, her first career long ball, and Kathlyn Medina would go back-to-back with Wheaton as she hit her first home run of the season.     
At one point in the game, Florida 
was up 20-1 and Walton was able to use every substitution he had, so he inserted players who don’t get the same playing time as the regulars.
“A lot of people that I’ve seen, 
they play their starting lineup all the way through those games,” Walton said. “Out of respect to our backup players, practice players practice hard too, so give them a chance to go and some of them came through in a big way.”
In the second game of the dou-
bleheader, Kayli Kvistad would take 
on Little’s role as the power hitter 
as she blasted two home runs and drove in four runs.
Kvistad has been getting more 
at-bats lately and is hitting .440 on the season and slugging 1.000 and she ranks second on the team with 17 RBIs.
“It’s just a lot of hard work and 
dedication and practice,” Kvistad said. “Just taking it from the cage to the game is a big part and just felt awesome to help my team in the way I did.”  
With the University of Florida 
Aquafina Invitational now in the rear-view mirror, along with a good chunk of the season already over, 
Little is looking forward to the up-
coming challenges for the team.
“I’m really excited for the rest of 
the season now because we got the first half out of the way and now we’re getting ready to get into the better half,” she said.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Lauren Haeger swings during Florida’s 4-1 win against Illinois State on Saturday at Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium. The Gators hit 10 home runs on Sunday.
Gators softball topples Mercer in doubleheader sweep
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
The Gators women’s basketball team has 
struggled against the Southeastern Confer-
ence for years. 
With the expansion of the conference two 
seasons ago, Florida can add another team 
to the list of opponents that have the Gators 
number: Texas A&M.
UF lost to the No. 15 Aggies 66-46 on 
Sunday afternoon in just the second confer-ence matchup between the two opponents and fourth matchup ever, making Florida winless in every attempt against one of the SEC’s newest member.
The first time the Gators (12-14, 4-9 SEC) 
traveled to College Station to face Texas A&M (21-6, 9-4 SEC) was on March 16, 1994, in the first round of the NCAA Tournament, with the Aggies getting the 78-76 win to send the Gators packing.
That game holds special significance for 
coach Amanda Butler —  it was her last game in a Gator uniform, a game in which her 15 points and five assists weren’t quite enough to get her team into the second round and extend her collegiate career.
However, Sunday’s game wasn’t as close 
with Butler on the sidelines.
Texas A&M opened the game on a 12-2 
run, forcing the Gators to spend the half clawing back to make it a contest. But the Aggies still held a 10-point lead at the break as UF missed shot after shot.
Coming in to the game, Florida had made 
a three-pointer in 156 straight games -- dat-ing back to when redshirt senior Kayla Lew-is was a freshman --  but that streak ended after nearly five seasons.
The Gators went 0-of-8 
from behind the arc, fail-ing to convert on a long-range shot for the first 
time since Nov. 30, 2010 against Old Dominion.
Considering Florida 
has hit a three-pointer in 252 of its previous 254 
games, the Gators strug-
gled to score without a vital part of their of-
fense. 
Florida couldn’t slow the Aggies down in 
the second half, either, as Texas A&M didn’t let the lead fall below eight points for the rest of the game.
Florida forced the Aggies into 18 turn-
overs by using stifling defense to cause 
loose-ball opportunities.
But the Gators couldn’t convert on the 
other end, scoring just 12 points off of their 
opponents’ miscues.
“I thought our turnovers were really 
timely,” Butler said in a release. “They came at critical moments and really any momen-tum that we generated was a cold bucket of water on our effort.”
Ronni Williams scored a game-high 14 
points for Florida, giving her 16 double-dig-it scoring performances this season. Haley Lorenzen had 10 points while Kayla Lewis scored eight points despite struggling with foul trouble. 
UF drops another game against a ranked conference opponent
ENEISY RODRIGUEZ
Alligator Writer @eneisyr29
The No. 2 Florida women’s ten-
nis team kept its home winning streak alive Sunday afternoon af-ter defeating No. 10 Stanford 4-3 at the Ring Tennis Complex.
The Gators (8-1) were able to 
put an end to the Cardinal (7-1) un-defeated season and take home its 138th straight win in Gainesville.
Coach Roland Thornqvist said 
the team showed a lot of courage and resilience after a rough start in doubles play against Stanford — he said he thinks the team was able to move past the negative to win the first couple singles sets.
No. 91-ranked freshman Peggy 
Porter had a straight-set win over Lindsey Kostas, 6-0, 6-2. But three UF athletes -- Brooke Austin, Josie Kuhlman and Brianna Morgan — were forced into third sets.Austin lost 1-6, 6-3, 6-3, and No. 
3-ranked freshman Kuhlman was defeated by the Cardinal’s No. 14-ranked Taylor Davidson (2-6, 6-0, 7-6 (8)).
The UF fans shifted their atten-
tion to the No. 3 court, where Mor-gan clinched the match in the third set, finishing 6-1, 2-6, 6-3.  
“It’s a funny sport because we 
have one kid in (the locker room) feeling down and the other one is 
feeling on top of the world right 
now. They’re both phenomenal,” Thornqvist said in a release about Kuhlman and Morgan.
In doubles play, the Gators 
dropped the doubles point for the second time this season. The duo of Spencer Liang and Woolcock won 8-0 to kick off the outing.
The pairing of No. 4-ranked 
Austin and Keegan had their first doubles loss of the season as the 
Stanford pairing of No. 5-ranked 
Taylor Davidson and Carol Zhao downed the Florida duo 8-4.
No. 12-ranked Caroline Doyle 
and Ellen Tsay defeated Florida’s No. 9 Kuhlman and Porter pairing 8-2.
Florida will transition into 
Southeastern Conference play this weekend when it hosts the reign-ing SEC Champion No. 8 Alabama at 5 p.m on Friday and Auburn at 1 p.m. on Sunday.
Coach Thornqvist said that 
with a tough schedule ahead, the team is not putting much empha-sis on the winning streak for the upcoming matches. 
“The streak is cool to talk about 
but it’s really not something we’re emphasizing,” Thornqvist said.
“It’s there because we play 
good, disciplined tennis at home. And obviously we have that ter-rific crowd too. They were remark-able today. They really helped us along.” 
Florida defeats Stanford, keeps home win streak aliveButler
UF W omen’s T ennisUF has won 138 straight home matchesues of our organization - we act in a 
fair, ethical and honest manner and we strive to do things the right way every day,” athletics director Jeremy Foley said in a statement. “We thank 
the NCAA Committee on Infrac-
tions for their thoughtful delibera-tion. We look forward to putting this issue behind us and we will contin-ue to operate with the highest level of integrity and compliance.”
On Jan. 23, 2014, Phillips, who 
is now a coach with the Cleveland Brown, and a recruiting beat writer 
he had known since 2008 went to 
the wide receiver’s high school so Phillips could “bump” into him to obtain contact information for him. 
After Phillips landed in the pros-
pect’s area, he followed the writer in a separate car to the player’s school after initially going to the wrong campus. 
Phillips was told by the writer 
that the player would be waiting outside the school after the writer obtained the correct location from the player.
The “bump” occurred when 
Phillips and the writer arrived at the player’s location. 
The writer went to “make a 
phone call” according to the report and Phillips and the player just so happened to be in the same vicinity in the school’s parking lot. 
Phillips spoke to the player and 
had the player put his social media contact information into his phone. 
He did this because it was per-
missible under NCAA rules to con-tact an athlete via social media, and while phone numbers often change social media accounts typically do not. During an interview with the NCAA, Phillips said he “may have” asked the player to come on a visit to UF as well.
The player said the writer sent a 
text to him earlier that day saying there was “a surprise” and that “a special somebody” would be com-ing to the school that day. When the two met, the player said Phillips de-livered a normal recruiting pitch.
“The prospect then gave the as-
sistant coach a social media “follow” on the assistant coach’s phone,” the 
committee’s release stated. “The 
prospect did not recall the assistant coach saying that he could not talk to the prospect. Regardless of the exact length of the conversation and the exact words spoken, the panel found that the assistant coach and prospect had a face-to-face encoun-ter on the prospect’s high school 
campus that included dialogue in 
excess of an exchange of a greeting.”
Because of Phillips’ initial tardi-
ness, the player missed his bus and the writer drove him to where he needed to be and Phillips went to meet the player’s 7-on-7 coach.
On Feb. 28, 2014, the NCAA en-
forcement staff contacted Florida 
letting the school know that the or-
ganization was investigating a po-tential violation. 
On March 19, Phillips was in-
formed that he would be inter-viewed the next day, during which Phillips said he “misinterpreted” the NCAA rules and that his contact was not impermissible because it was short. 
He said It was important to have direct contact with the athlete as did coach Will Muschamp, who was 
also interviewed. 
On an NCAA conference call 
Friday, the infractions committee 
stated that to its knowledge, Phillips acted alone.
While the school and Phillips 
insisted their violation was level-III, the committee decided it was level-II. Mitigating factors includ-
ing prompt acknowledgment of the 
school of the violation and an estab-lished history of reporting second-ary violations as well as Phillips’ ac-ceptance of responsibility led to the COI going along with the sanctions self-imposed by UF.
16, ALLIGATOR  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2015
AP Photo
Former Florida wide receivers coach Joker Phillips watches the Gators warm up before Florida’s 27-7 
victory against Kentucky on Sept. 28, 2013. 
UF ceased recruiting the player, suspended Phillips for 30 days 
PHILLIPS , from page 13UF did not allow Miami to record a hit until the seventh inning
the game was speeding up on me a little 
bit,” Dunning said. “I had to take my time 
and slow things down, and I got through it 
so that’s all that matters. It’s just a mental ad-
justment, that’s all.”Added coach Kevin O’Sullivan: “He bat-
tled through it, and I know this is going to 
sound odd — he gave up no hits over ﬁ  ve in-
nings — but trust me, I’ve seen him sharper in scrimmages. He’s got an electric arm and he’s only going to get better.”
UM did not record a hit until the seventh inning when Brandon Lopez hit a two-out single to left ﬁ  eld and recorded a series-low 
three hits in the loss.
UF’s bullpen provided Dunning with 
four scoreless innings of relief. The group 
of Danny Young, Shaun Anderson, Kirby Snead and Taylor Lewis gave up just three hits while recording three strikeouts and not allowing a free pass.
Lewis earned the save after retiring the ﬁ  -
nal four batters in just 10 pitches.
“We’ve had some good closers here,” 
O’Sullivan said, “and I think he’s falling in line.” BASEBALL , from page 13