KEY
UF trail under construction
New detour trailWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 48 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015
Backline play key to UF 
volleyball’s recent success
The Gators are on a six-match win streak, pg. 17
Students can’t dance by stadium
Signs said vehicular trafﬁ  c is the reason, pg. 4
Bernie Sanders’ live-streamed viewers at Maude’s Classic Cafe
It was interrupted by technical difﬁ  culties, pg. 5Halloween in the Atrium
Check out the photos from the Halloween 
Extravaganza, pg. 8
John Hursh / Alligator Staff
SPOOKY SKETCHES
T aylor Mott-Smith, right, a UF architecture freshman, sketches interior design freshman Valerie Pretto, who 
was dressed as an angel in the Architecture Atrium on Wednesday night. The 18-year-old UF students par-ticipated in Alpha Rho Chi Fraternity’s Halloween Extravaganza. See more photos from the event on page 8.
CAMPUS
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@gmail.com
Over a creek and through the 
woods, UF students will race to 
class on their bikes this Spring in an area that was previously un-paved and unusable.
A $2 million, mile-long path 
will unite the campus’ east and west sides. It will start near the commuter lot on Gale Lemerand Drive, pass the New Engineering Building and cross through the Bartram-Carr woods, said Gina Busscher, a spokeswoman for the Florida Department of Transporta-
tion.
The trail marks the second 
phase of construction on the UF 
Campus Greenway, a 2.5-mile multipurpose trail funded entirely by the department.  
The phase two trail will stop at 
the intersection of South Newell Drive and Southwest Archer Road, 
near the UF College of Medicine. 
Construction on phase two will be completed by spring.
She said she hopes the path will 
keep pedestrians and bikers safe and out of the way of cars.
Phase one, extending from Gale 
Lemerand Drive to Southwest 34th Street, will be ﬁ  nished in about 
two weeks and cost about $1.8 
million, she said. “The plan is to connect the 
trails,” Busscher said, adding the Campus Greenway will connect the Gainesville-Hawthorne State Trail to the Archer Braid Trail.
UF mechanical engineering 
senior Jeff Dickens rides his blue 
1975 Raleigh bicycle through cam-
pus every day. He said the Cam-pus Greenway can help prevent accidents and make commuting to class easier.
“I think it’d be nice,” the 
22-year-old said. “Just more routes, easier to get around campus.”
UF political science doctoral 
student Peter Licari usually rides across campus on a seven-gear Inﬁ  nity bicycle. He said when he’s biking, he worries he’ll either crash into a car or a pedestrian.
The construction of the 12-foot-
wide cross-campus trail would ease his worries, the 21-year-old said.
“I’d be all for that,” he said. 
“I always like to see some places safer for me to ride on, safer for me to run on.”
Max Rogozinski, a 22-year-old 
UF mechanical engineering senior, said UF doesn’t have any other bike path, so the addition of the Greenway makes sense — even if 
it means paving through a forest.
“I like the woods and every-
thing, but a more dedicated bike 
path would be nice,” he said.UF to build a 
mile-long trail through campus
By Aubrey Krampert
Alligator Contributing Writer
HealthQueer Alliance at UF is 
educating the medical community 
about transgender health con-
cerns.
To conclude Trans Health 
Month, the alliance will host 
Trans Health Night at Equal Ac-cess, located at 1707 N. Main St. 
The clinic is part of a network 
of UF student-run clinics that pro-vide free services, and today at 6 p.m., it will be open only to trans-gender people for the ﬁ  rst time, 
said alliance president and UF 
medical student Ansley Schulte.
About half of transgender and 
gender-nonconforming people re-ported they had to educate their 
healthcare providers about their 
identities, according to Injustice at Every Turn: A Report of the National Transgender Discrimina-
tion Survey, released in 2011.
But the alliance wants to 
change this, Schulte, 23, said.  
Throughout the month, the group has worked with UF LGBTQ+ Affairs to educate health science majors by organizing a series of talks and workshops ranging from mental health in trans com-
munities to cultural competency. 
“It’s the beginning of a process 
to provide a safe space for trans 
people for whatever care they may need and then to have our 
students apply what they have 
learned,” she said.
UF women’s studies alumna 
Reilly Clemens, 28, who identiﬁ  es 
as a trans woman, said transgen-
der people need to be accounted for and included in healthcare.
“There’s a lot of social exclu-
sion because there’s misconcep-
tions about what it means to be 
trans and perceived as sexually perverse,” said Clemens, a ﬁ  rst-year sociology doctoral student at 
Florida State University.UF group brings free health care
Today it’s for trans people
“It’s the beginning of a process 
to provide a safe space for 
trans people for whatever care 
they may need and then to 
have our students apply what 
they have learned.”
Ansley Schulte
HQA president Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
RecSports Thriller Night
Get your freaky dance moves 
on at Southwest Recreation 
Center. Participants will learn 
the dance routine from Michael Jackson’s “Thriller.” Learn the moves to this classic video 
and other dances today from 
7 p.m. to 9 p.m. This event is free for all current UF stu-dents. Register on rsconnect.recsports.ufl.edu. Costumes 
are encouraged.
Days for Girls International 
CEO to speak at UFCeleste Mergens, founder and 
executive director of Days for Girls International, will be speaking today at 6 p.m. at Pugh Hall (Ocora) about her 
simple “invention” that helps 
to solve complex problems like poverty, environmental disasters and health and edu-
cational disparities. Since its 
inception in 2008, Days for Girls International has grown to include 470 teams and chap-ters all over the world creating 
reusable, washable menstrual 
supplies for girls in 86 coun-tries. Come to this free presen-tation and learn how you can 
help. The Alachua DFG team 
leader will also be present for those who want to get involved locally. See daysforgirls.org to learn more.
Café Cultural: Rhythm and 
ResistanceJoin UF's Hispanic-Latino Affairs department today at 
6:30 p.m. at La Casita for 
Café Cultural: Rhythm and Resistance. Come out to learn about some of the history of 
resistance in Latin culture and 
even participate in a Capoeira class for beginners, led by the Capoeira Academy of 
Gainesville. There will be free 
food, fun and friends. 
Haunting of La Casita
UF Hispanic-Latino Affairs is 
bringing back a special and so 
spooky tradition: the haunted house. Everyone is invited. The Haunting of La Casita will 
take place Friday from 8 p.m. 
to midnight at La Casita. 
Ghouls, Goblins and Greeks
Junior Panhellenic at UF is 
excited to invite you to this year’s Ghouls, Goblins and 
Greeks event. Held on Sorority 
Row at UF, this event allows 
Gainesville children to ex-perience a fun, safe and free Halloween. Put on your favor-ite costume and join in on a 
night of games, activities and 
trick-or-treating. The event will be held today from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. The first 350 kids will 
receive a free T-shirt. Food 
will be provided, but it is lim-ited to first come, first serve. If you have any questions, please message us at facebook.com/
UFJuniorPanhellenic. 
GatorNights
GatorNights will host the third 
annual Haunted Horror Reitz on Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 
a.m. at the Reitz Union. The 
event will feature a Haunted House, a team Pumpkin Carving Contest and Nightmare 
on Beat Street featuring Hip 
Hop Collective. The event will also feature the movie The Conjuring at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium and a special 
showing of The Rocky Horror Picture Show at 10:00 p.m. in the Breezeway. The night will 
end with free nachos during 
Midnight Munchies. Guests are encouraged to wear costumes, but please no masks per uni-versity policy. This event is 
free for UF students with their 
Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current students to partici-pate. Students are allowed to 
bring a maximum of one guest 
to the event.
New theater troupe
The Center for Arts in Medicine, 
Dean of Students Office and 
STRIVE are seeking culturally diverse individuals interested in social justice for a new the-
ater troupe that uses the power 
of the arts to prevent interper-sonal violence. Become part of the movement to eliminate stigma, build awareness and 
educate your peers. The center 
provides training and oppor-tunities; you provide passion, talent, energy and drive.  No 
prior theater experience is re-
quired. Contact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu. The club will meet every Tuesday in the Nadine McGuire Theatre and 
Dance Pavilion in Studio G-15 
starting Nov. 17 from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
Curator Talks on Sustainability
Librarians Nina Stoyan-Rosenzweig and Carl Van Ness will provide insight into the balancing of institutional 
resources with the role of ar-
chivists in preserving an or-ganization’s past records. Stoyan-Rosenzweig will speak 
on “To Write A History, You 
Must Collect It: A History of the College of Medicine at UF.” Van Ness’ topic is “Sometimes You Need to Look a Gift Horse 
in the Mouth: A sustainable 
approach to preserving UF’s material culture.” The talks will be Nov. 2 from 12 p.m. 
to 1 p.m. in Smathers Library, 
Room 100. It is free and open to the public and there will be light refreshments.
Fall BFA Dance Showcase
The University of Florida (UF) School of Theatre + Dance is pleased to present its Fall BFA Dance Showcase, "It happened in College." The fall showcase 
features seven senior thesis re-
search projects as well as vari-ous other pieces from the MOD UF dance ensemble and guest 
artist Brazilian choreographer 
Fernando Ferraz. The Fall BFA Dance Showcase discovers its roots through dance film, Afro-Brazilian dancing and 
contemporary thought-provok-
ing movement. The showcase is presented in two programs today through Saturday in G-6 
Studio located in the Nadine 
McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion on UF’s campus. Tickets are $9 and available through the University Box 
Office, by calling 352-392-1653 
or at ticketmaster.com.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. Please submit the event before 5 p.m. and keep them to 150 
words or fewer. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 48
HIGH  84° LOW  61°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
deputies arrested a local man Tues-
day night after authorities said he punched an officer in jail.
At about 8:05 p.m. Tuesday, 
Otha Brown Jr., 55, smeared feces on his jail cell and was then escort-ed to the shower area, according to a police report.
Deputies arrested Brown on 
Monday after he threatened two people with a pair of knives and resisted arrest.
Once in the showers, Brown 
pulled away from two officers and punched one of them in the face, according to the report.
The officer was not injured, 
but he did press charges against Brown, who is listed as a violent registered criminal and convicted felon, according to the report.
Authorities watched the sur-
veillance video and filed a com-plaint from the officer. A deputy 
tried to speak with Brown but decided not to 
after watching 
him ramble in a 
“peculiar state,” according to the report.  
In addition 
to three charges 
from the day before, which in-cluded two charges for aggravated 
assault with a deadly weapon 
without intent to kill and one for resisting an officer without vio-lence, deputies charged Brown on Tuesday for battery on a law en-forcement officer.
As of press time, he remains in 
the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $255,000 bond.Deputies arrest inmate 
for punching officer
Brown
SIGNS WERE PUT UP . 
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
For Felicity Duran, Gate 4 outside 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium is home.
Since her sophomore year, the 
21-year-old has spent countless eve-
nings dancing with the Filipino Stu-
dent Association, staying until 5 a.m. 
with other dancers to master routines. 
But last week, the University Ath-
letic Association posted signs that forbade unauthorized group danc-ing due to vehicular traffic. With that sign, Duran and the other FSA danc-ers lost their home.
“That’s our spot, everyone knows 
that,” said the UF anthropology and accelerated nursing junior. “It’s the home of FSA dance.”
University Police told Duran and 
several other dancers to leave Gate 4 on Monday night as they were prac-ticing for a cultural performance this weekend at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. They then moved 
to the top floor of the Transportation Garage on Gale Lemerand to contin-
ue practicing.
Lindsey Thomas, the director 
of internal operations for the UAA, 
wrote in an email that the signs were 
in response to more student groups meeting outside the stadium in the past year. Students practicing outside of Gates 1 through 4 are near traffic, she said. Students can still use Gates 5 through 15 from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m.
“It’s really just to keep the safety,” 
Thomas said.
Groups are being asked to relocate 
and are not being kicked out, she said. She said she asked the Department of Student Activities and Involvement to send out an email informing student groups of the new policy. The UAA is still evaluating band members’ use of the stadium to determine how they will be affected by the new policy, 
Thomas said.
While SAI Director Nancy Chrys-
tal-Green said she did receive an 
email Thursday morning, she wrote in an email that they did not share the message because they felt key information — including alternative locations, when the policy started and who organizations should speak to — was missing.
“We thought we had some time 
to get that information, so we priori-
tized other projects,” Chrystal-Green 
wrote.
Lt. Alton McDilda, the special 
events coordinator for UPD, said the UAA told them Oct. 21 it was mak-ing signs with the new policy. UPD began enforcing the policy Monday.
McDilda said officers are respond-
ing when they receive complaints but 
not actively patrolling the area. Of-
ficers are giving warnings to groups.
Ronit Dastidar, the 19-year-old 
treasurer of Gator Bhangra, said dancers from his organization were also told to leave. He and his friends made sure they weren’t in front of the areas with signs. When a UAA official came by and warned them, the group 
of about 25 dancers moved near the 
Heisman statues. At around 11 p.m. Monday, a UPD officer told them they had to leave, the UF microbiol-ogy sophomore said.
“It felt like we were doing some-
thing grossly wrong even though we weren’t,” he said.
Students can’t dance by stadium  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
As the live stream froze Wednesday night, 
the only sounds were shouts of dismay from 
supporters.
With Bernie Sanders’ face frozen on the 
screen, viewers scrambled to pull up the live 
stream on their phones in the middle of Maude’s 
Classic Cafe in downtown Gainesville. About 50 UF students and Gainesville locals had gath-ered to listen to Sanders as the candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination spoke to students across the country via live stream, but his speech was constantly interrupted by technical difﬁ  culties.
The feed froze for about 15 minutes at one 
point.
“I’m sad it’s not working,” Monica Morales, 
a UF biology junior, said. 
But the 20-year-old said she was happy just 
to be with other supporters of Sanders.
When the video started back up, Sanders 
could be heard discussing issues facing college students, including the environment, to stu-dents from about 300 colleges.
He said global warming would only get 
worse if action isn’t taken.
“The planet that we will be leaving to your 
kids and grandchildren will not be a very in-habitable planet,” he said.
At the viewing, hosted by Progressive Gators 
and Gators Want Bernie 2016, students pulled chairs around a projector screen.
Molly Vise, a UF biology senior and the 
founder of Progressive Gators, decided to host the screening at Maude’s when she found out Sanders was doing a live town hall.Maude’s had a projector screen and did not 
charge her for the event, the 21-year-old said.
“I thought this would be a good place,” she 
said.
Sanders also discussed minimum wage, 
which he said needs to be raised to $15 an hour.
“Wages in America are just too damn low,” 
he said.
He also discussed families who lack the 
money needed for college tuition.
“That is wrong, and we are going to change 
that,” he said. “We need to make public col-leges and universities tuition-free.”Bernie Sanders’ live stream interrupted, technical diﬃ   culties 
STUDENTS DISCUSSED 
DIVERSITY IN GREEK LIFE.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Shardé Pettis gets annoyed 
when people say her hair is long “for a black girl”— something she considers a microaggression.
Microaggressions, common-
place actions that communicate negativity toward marginalized groups, was one of the topics dis-cussed at “Dear White People: A Dialogue” on Wednesday. The event, hosted by UF Black Affairs, the Interfraternity Council and Multicultural & Diversity Affairs, gave about 70 students an oppor-
tunity to discuss race relations in 
college.
The talk also covered white 
privilege, the Black Lives Matter movement and race relations in Greek organizations.
It was facilitated by UF students 
Drew Baker, Camille Liverpool and Edward Williams III. Liverpool, a 22-year-old UF psychology senior, said it was no coincidence the talk was hosted close to Halloween.
Students saw projected images 
of racially insensitive incidents that have occurred at UF, includ-ing the Chi Omega Sorority “trap queen” photo and a 2012 incident of blackface at a “rock stars and 
rappers”-themed party.
“There’s not always good cul-
tural representation in Greek life,” 
said Baker, 21, the IFC’s director of multicultural and diversity affairs and a UF economics senior.
Students were divided into 
small groups to discuss their feel-ings toward diversity in Greek life.
P.J. Jones, the programming co-
ordinator for UF Black Affairs, said she thought the dialogue went well and hoped participants realized the dialogues are important.
“It’s really about learning from 
each other,” she said.
Kason Green, a UF industrial 
engineering ﬁ  fth-year, said he was pleased with the turnout from dif-ferent Greek councils.
“It was good to come together 
not because something bad hap-pened but to be proactive,” the 22-year-old said.
Laura Johnson, a UF telecom-
munication senior, said she hopes Greek councils continue to have honest discussions about race.
“Small discussions will lead to 
big actions,” the 22-year-old said. UF students discuss race relationsNATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
COLUMBIA, S.C. — A deputy 
who ﬂ  ipped a disruptive student out of her desk and tossed her across her math class ﬂ  oor was ﬁ  red Wednesday.
The sheriff called his actions 
“unacceptable” and said videos recorded by her classmates show the girl posed no danger to any-one.
“What he should not have 
done is throw the student,” Rich-land County Sheriff Leon Lott said. “Police ofﬁ  cers make mis-
takes too. They’re human and 
they need to be held accountable, and that’s what we’ve done with Deputy Ben Fields.”
Civil rights groups praised the 
swift action against Fields.
Outrage spread quickly after 
videos of the white ofﬁ  cer arrest-ing the black teenager on Monday 
appeared on the Internet.
The sheriff also had stern 
words for the student who started 
the confrontation.
Both she and another student 
who verbally challenged the of-ﬁ  cer’s actions during the arrest still face misdemeanor charges of disturbing schools, punishable by 
up to a $1,000 ﬁ  ne or 90 days in 
jail, Lott said, although in most cases, judges impose alternative sentences that keep students out of jail.Deputy ﬁ  red, tossed 
teen in classroom 
“There’s not always good 
cultural representation in 
Greek life.”
Drew Baker
UF economics seniorThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnBernie Sanders and the socialist label problem
Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont has 
breathed life into a campaign season that once seemed highly predictable. In an election cycle that once appeared to be a victory lap for centrist Hillary 
Clinton, Sanders has offered a true challenge for the Democratic presidential nomination. But Bernie Sanders faces a huge problem that could possibly be a deathblow to his cam-paign: his self-identification as a socialist. Be-fore you hastily type a letter to the Alligator, I know Sanders considers himself a “democratic socialist,” and it differs from other branches of socialism. From where I’m standing, however, he isn’t much of a socialist at all.
If Sanders really is a socialist, then he isn’t a good 
one. Not once in any of his speeches have I heard him quote Marx or say he will nationalize all forms of pri-vate business. The main definition of socialism, accord-ing to the Merriam-Webster Dictionary, is a society “in which major industries are owned and controlled by the government rather than by individual people and com-panies.” Once again, I really don’t see Sanders wear-ing a Che Guevara T-shirt while standing in front of a steel mill saying he will nationalize it. The only thing remotely socialist about Sanders’ views is his advocacy for European-style welfare programs, something that has existed in Europe since the end of World War II and is more or less the norm over there.
I think in the long run, Bernie Sanders’ mislabel has 
and will continue to cost him a significant amount of possible voters and open him up to a slew of political attacks that will prove difficult to overcome. Even at the Democratic debate a few weeks ago, Anderson Cooper made the point perfectly clear that almost half of the people in this country would not vote for a socialist. We could have a long discussion on why this is, but in short, Bernie has a lot of work to do in order to change the hearts and minds of many voters.
So what exactly is Bernie Sanders? From 
my understanding of his platform, Sanders is more of a progressive liberal than a socialist. His call to break up the big banks, reinstate legislation like Glass-Steagall and correct Citi-zens United are more reminiscent of the ac-tions of Teddy and Franklin Roosevelt than the ideology of Karl Marx. Sanders seems more invested in a responsible free market 
where the government plays a much bigger role rather than having a laissez-faire-style Wall Street where un-derregulation eventually leads to an economic crisis. He even said during the debate he is not for a “casino-style capitalism.”
Of course, this progressive wing of the Democratic 
Party is only now reawakening, one hundred years re-moved from the Progressive Era of the early 20th century until the end of World War I. This time period continues to influence the U.S. government today. Whether it was the trustbusting of monopolies, environmental conser-vation or increased regulations imposed on businesses, there are policy decisions from more than a century ago that still benefit us today.
Sanders’ progressive populist campaign is just the 
beginning of bigger things to come for the left wing in upcoming elections. The next few election cycles after 2016 will probably see the likes of Elizabeth Warren and other progressives of the party attempt to run for the presidency, invigorated by the success of Bernie Sand-ers’ campaign. Even if Sanders does not spark a political revolution and win this election cycle, the success of his campaign has shown there is a large market for truly liberal ideas. That is something that even Hillary Clinton would have to concede to.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science senior. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays.
Lecture halls in 
the time of smart 
phones
It is a familiar sight to anyone who has ever stepped foot 
in a lecture hall: a sea of faces looking anywhere but the center of the room. Sure, you might have 10 or so 
students who actually pay heed to the knowledge be-
ing imparted by their lecturer, but we’d bet dollars to 
doughnuts those same students are the kinds of dweebs who still take notes with pen and paper (Just kidding. For those 
of you that do, we have no doubt you have a bright and 
financially lucrative future ahead of you — please give us jobs).
Whether it’s iPhones, Androids, laptops or even a Game 
Boy Advance (yes, this is a thing that has happened), it 
would seem as though students jump at the first opportunity 
to screw around, even within the confines of a college class. If we had a nickel for every time one of our staff members saw someone taking a BuzzFeed quiz (ew) in class… we’d 
have 15 or so nickels.
But, as so many important philosophical inquiries have 
begun: “What does it mean?” 
The question at hand isn’t whether we have a detrimental 
addiction to our smart devices, since that was conclusively answered the first time someone died texting and driving. 
No, the question at the heart of the matter is this: As stu-dents, how much do we value our college education?
We’ve phrased the question in this manner because it’s 
obvious to some degree or another (get it?) most students understand the importance of college. Even the ones who go to class and play solitaire respect that their mere attendance will boost their grade. In our estimation, it is the distinction between one’s physical attendance versus their mental at-
tendance that constitutes the bulk of the question.
Showing up to class is not the same as going to class. 
Showing up to class is taking a seat and dismissing the ex-
citing and riveting world of accounting in order to find out 
“Which Mumford and Sons Album Are You?” Going to class 
is sitting down, strapping in and ignoring texts from your significant other in order to scribble down every fact or tan-gential detail your professor or TA can throw at you. THAT’S learning.
In an editorial a few weeks back, we lamented that it is 
harder than ever to be a disciplined, attentive college stu-dent. We still maintain that assertion, but damn it, we ask you, our fellow students, to at least try. As far as using our 
devices in class goes, we’ve all done it and we’re all go-
ing to do it. But for those chronic offenders, the individuals who are most likely to develop neck problems from staring directly into their crotch so much, you can and ought to do better. Whether you’re here on the dime of the state, federal 
loans, your own labor or mommy and daddy, college classes 
are absurdly expensive. Paying attention in class, inane as it often proves to be, represents a smart investment. If beloved sitcom character Dennis Reynolds has taught us anything, 
it’s that demonstrating value — or at least valuing the right 
things — is an important first step to living a charmed life.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
I’ve always been afraid of going to the 
lake or the beach. First off, I identify 
as a male; my privilege protects me 
from understanding how having “the 
wrong body type for Abercrombie” or 
having a natural thigh gap might make a woman feel. Still, I’m always anxious dur-
ing occasions when others might see me, 
or worse, when I might have to see myself.
The other day was just such an occa-
sion. Actually, I hadn’t even gone to the lake to go swimming — I was there to 
write a poem; that’s its own story — but I 
was struck by how beautiful everyone else was. 
One particular group had come ashore 
from rowing and each one of them a sweaty, stinking mess. They looked so light-skinned and angular, incredibly at-tractive in a way I felt I am not.
For me, being more than tan is natu-
ral, and I’ve never felt I could call myself “cut” by any means. But this is not why they were beautiful to me — attractive, yes, but not 
beautiful. I’m sure they contend 
with varying levels of insecuri-ties daily. 
Maybe the boys go home and 
stress over their protein con-
sumption, and maybe the girls 
go home and find advertise-ments that create their own insecurities about their shape or size. 
I thought they were beautiful because 
they had bodies and because I saw their bodies alone, not their perceived errors. They could laugh, hold onto one another or run back into the lake. And even if they 
were physically incapable of these acts, 
they were still alive. Their bodies were valuable for just this fact.
So where was I in all this? In other 
words, why could I see others this way but not recognize myself? Well, sometimes I can. But knowing this does not absolve me of insecurity by any means. I would be disingenuous 
if I insisted anyone could do dif-
ferently. But I would be cynical if I insisted I, or anybody else, were incapable of trying. 
And I’ve always felt cynicism 
to be despair parading as intel-ligence. 
What I suggest, then, isn’t body positiv-
ity, although many of the ideas I express 
come directly from that. I merely suggest 
we recognize our bodies as not just a part of ourselves, BUT ourselves. 
Not as the seat of our consciousness or 
the temple of our souls — depending on 
your religious beliefs — but as our sole 
means of living. 
And the fact of life is that it is an evolu-
tionary accident as much as it is beautiful 
and temporary. 
Our bodies are beautiful for anchoring us to some cosmic, statistical mistake. We 
should make the most of that mistake. It would be dismal, then, if we spent each 
day of our lives pinching every apparent 
fold or bone on our torsos in the mirror, analyze every meal for its calorie count or feel afraid to declare our skin tones as beautiful.
I think I’ll begin to exercise more this 
semester and probably eat more healthily. I haven’t practiced tennis in a long time, but I think I’ll start again. 
I want to make full use of my body — 
running, swerving, sweating — and ex-tend how long I can. 
But I want to do this out of a sense of 
appreciation, not loathing. 
With one life in one body, I have so 
little time to waste feeling ashamed of it and losing sight of myself.
Neel Bapatla is a UF English sopho-
more. His column appears on Thursdays.
You have one life in one body: Embrace it and do not be ashamed of itColumn
Neel Bapatla
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015
ABOVE:
Students hang posters in the Ar-
chitecture Atrium on Wednes-day. The event featured a dough-nut-eating game, water balloon fight, bean bag toss and photo booth. 
RIGHT:
Blaire Davis, right, a 23-year-old architecture and construction management junior, roasts a marshmallow in her Halloween costume. The Halloween Extrav-aganza provided s’mores supplies — including fire — to everyone who came.
John Hursh / Alligator Staff
John Hursh / Alligator Staff
The Alpha Rho Chi Fraternity hosted the Halloween Extravaganza on Wednesday evening. They decorated the Architecture Atrium with themed tables, signs, drawings and orange lights.
Christy Pina / Alligator
Hannah Ulloa, a 20-year-old UF architecture senior dressed up as Mia Wallace from “Pulp Fiction, ” draws on the Spooky Sketches table at the Halloween Extravaganza.
John Hursh / Alligator Staff
David Vasquez, a 21-year-old UF architecture senior, places a Jen-ga block while 26-year-old UF landscape architecture sophomore Gayandrial Henderson looks on. The game gathered a crowd as the tower managed not to topple after many close calls.
Halloween in the AtriumKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Website reinvents festival ticket buying
Read how and why Fund-A-Fest got its start, pg 13.What’s inside: 
Check out this week’s “Mediocre Advice, ” pg 10.First look at The Neighbourhood’s second album, pg 11.By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
While many Gators will head to Jackson-
ville for the annual Florida vs. Georgia game 
this weekend, others from around the world 
will head to Gainesville for the multi-day punk 
rock music festival, better known as Fest. 
Fest is entering its 14th year, and the event 
is only growing in size each year. This year, 
it features a large number of bands, over 20 
local venues, an art show and a ﬂ  ea market.
The weekendlong event begins Friday and 
will last through Sunday. Tickets are no lon-ger for sale through the event’s website, but 
information on various ticket options is avail-
able at thefestﬂ  .com/tickets.
Pat Lavery, owner of Glory Days Presents 
and exclusive promoter for High Dive, wrote 
in an email most of the “festers” are people 
who travel from out of town, out of state and even out of the country.
“It’s a sort of punk rock family reunion of 
people from around the globe that have grown 
up on this music,” Lavery said. 
This draws a huge crowd on what would 
otherwise be a slow weekend due to students 
and locals traveling to the game in Jackson-
ville.
Because Fest’s main stage is at Lot 10, lo-
cated next to High Dive, Lavery expects this 
to be a busy year for the venue and its neigh-bors.
He said High Dive has been a part of the fes-
tival dating back to when the venue was still Common Grounds. High Dive routinely ranks as a band- and fan-favorite of the event due 
to its big stage, sound system and “unique” 
laid-back outdoor beer garden, where the big game will be playing during the event.
Mike Weaver, the manager and public rela-
tions coordinator for local business Sweetwa-
ter Organic Coffee, said Sweetwater is a proud 
sponsor of the event, a ﬂ  ea market participant and the ofﬁ  cial coffee of the Fest.
Weaver said Sweetwater became involved 
with Fest because of the coffee-loving mem-bers of the band All, a spinoff of the band De-scendents.
Sweetwater created an “All blend,” which 
was made from all of their single-origin cof-
fees blended together. They gave All a few 
pounds of the blend and provided coffee in the backstage areas for three of the larger ven-ues, including the main venue.
The following year, the coffee shop was 
asked to back Fest, and they created a “De-scendents Blend” in response. Weaver said because their love for the same type of music aligns so well, being a part of Fest is almost 
like “a match made in heaven.”
The ﬂ  ea market is where vendors come to-
gether, Weaver said.
“Anybody that has to do with the Fest 
— be it from Fat Wreck Chords, to No Idea Records, to 6 Dollar T-shirts, to you name 
it — they’re there,” Weaver said, “basically schlepping stuff.”
This will be Sweetwater’s third year at the 
ﬂ  ea market, and they are the ﬁ  rst booth by the door. With the purchase of a pound of cof-fee, you will get to spin the prize wheel and 
“whatever you get, you get,” Weaver said.
Prizes include koozies, stickers and De-
scendents- and Hot-Water-Music-themed gift 
bags.
Weaver said people at the ﬂ  ea market “go 
gaga” over Fat Wreck Chords and No Idea Re-cords blowing out their stock of “rare stuff.”
“There’s deals to be had for everybody all 
throughout,” Weaver said.  
Fest-goers have to go through the sale to 
get their armband, and the line snakes past all of the booths. It’s almost like exiting through the gift shop after a ride at a theme park.
“Except you’ve been waiting in line as 
your adventure throughout the day, and then ﬁ  nally you get into the gift shop,” Weaver said.
The Fest Art Show is returning to Anthem 
Tattoo for the second year in a row. The show consists of artists who have at some point been involved with the event.
Samantha Salay, the Anthem Tattoo gal-
lery director and the Fest Art Show curator, said the show features many art forms includ-ing photography, drawings and ceramics.
Salay owns Anthem Tattoo with her hus-
band, and she moved to Gainesville over 20 
years ago for the town’s music scene. She re-
members volunteering with the event as early as the ﬁ  rst Fest. Her husband used to prepare 
the Fest’s barbecue.
“I love the Fest,” Salay said. “I love the 
Gainesville community; I love seeing people 
come to Gainesville and have an awesome 
time and being exposed to tons of cool bands.”
When Anthem Tattoo moved into its cur-
rent building, they decided to turn one of the 
rooms into an art gallery.
“Tony (who started Fest) approached me 
two years ago and said, ‘Hey, how about we throw the Art Show at in the Anthem Tat-too as a venue this year?’” Salay said. “And I was all for it, and that’s kind of how we got 
started.”
She said art always plays a part in music, and Anthem is excited to have a place for peo-
ple to come and extend the mass amounts of creative energy in Gainesville.
She believes Gainesville has a “really sol-
id” music history, and Fest allows that scene to open up and become more global.
Weaver said Fest has become so large that 
every year he ﬁ  nds himself talking to some-one from places like New Zealand, Australia, England, France and Brazil.
“You name it,” he said.Noting the large crowd from everywhere 
in the world, Salay urges festers to take their vitamins and drink responsibly.
Salay’s advice about taking your vitamins 
shouldn’t be overlooked.
Weaver said when you’re coming together 
with thousands of people from all corners of the world, “somebody’s bringing something (a sickness) that you ain’t seen.”
Last year, Weaver discovered “Fest ﬂ  u” is 
nothing to sneeze at. Weaver said he caught it last year, so he guesses he is now a believer.
“They’re coming to go to a three-day festi-
val, and to catch Fest ﬂ  u, and go home miser-
ably sick,” he joked.THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Alligator ﬁ  le photo
A festival-goer crowd surfs during local punk rock music festival Fest. The weekendlong event starts Friday and will last 
through Sunday. The festival is entering its 14th year and growing in size each year, drawing an international audience. 
Local music festival Fest draws an international crowd
MUSICTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015
THE NEIGHBOURHOOD RELEASES “WIPED OUT!” FRIDAY ff the Record
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
@jack__dasilva
The Neighbourhood’s second album, 
“Wiped Out!,” will be released Friday, and 
the band has clearly tested its limits. From 
indie and psychedelic rock to electronic 
beats, the California-based band experi-ments with new and creative sounds on its latest album.
The album starts off with an echoed 
chorus that transitions into an upbeat verse on “Prey.” After a constant buildup, the background vocals return for the hook and create a cool combination of sounds. 
“Prey” has a lot going on — maybe too 
much — but it sets the mood for the rest of the album.
The next song, “Cry Baby,” begins with 
an electronic-dance-music-feel but quickly switches back to The NBHD’s usual indie-rock sound. The track incorporates heavy use of the bass guitar and establishes the catchy beat, which goes perfectly with 
the message in the lyrics. Lead singer 
Jesse Rutherford questions his style of communication and personality when it comes to expressing himself. At the same 
time, the singer illustrates he can handle 
relationships and conﬂ  ict properly. The title appears to be a double entendre, as Rutherford reveals that even if his signiﬁ  -cant other lies to him, he won’t be a “cry baby.” However, he also wants people to 
understand that sometimes it is OK to “cry, 
baby.”
“Wiped Out!” is the next song, which 
wastes no time in building up the tempo but slows down about halfway through the 
track. “Wiped Out!” might be the coolest-
sounding song on the album because of the many different elements throughout the six-minute track, including digital effects, 
electric guitars and some warped sounds 
that continuously fade in and out. After the ﬁ  rst couple of verses, the track slows down and has nearly three minutes of an instrumental before the vocals return. Be-
cause of the multiple transitions in “Wiped 
Out!,” the record is essentially three differ-ent songs in one.
When a song is titled “The Beach,” you 
would think that it would be a fast and happy feel-good song — that’s not the case on this album. “The Beach” is the slowest and most simple song on “Wiped Out!” It takes a break from the last few complex 
songs that were ﬁ  lled with transitions and 
layered sound effects.
“Daddy Issues” is a slower and deeper 
song where Rutherford speaks to a little girl who is troubled because of her daddy issues. Later on in the song, Rutherford communicates to a little boy who has dad-dy issues as well, which could be interpret-
ed as him talking to himself and addressing 
the passing of his own father.
Next up is the two-part song “Baby 
Came Home 2 / Valentines,” where Ruth-erford talks about a relationship he had 
with a woman a few years ago, as well as 
his upbringing. 
Rutherford hits the high notes while the 
additional background vocals join to form a 
soothing combination. “Baby Came Home 
2” uses a guitar solo to transition into the second part of the song, “Valentines.” “Valentines” is a really cool acoustic-folk and soft rock instrumental that serves as a 
sort of interlude.
The NBHD uses the same stylization as 
its band name for the title of the next song, 
“Greetings From Califournia,” which be-
gins with a psychedelic intro but switches 
to more of an alternative rock sound. On this song, the West Coast band shows its diversity and how it can successfully use many different sounds instead of being 
limited to a certain area of music.
The brazen song “Ferrari” is next, which 
is ﬁ  lled with loud and deep sounds that 
eventually fade out and lead into “Single.” This song is written from the point of view of Rutherford pleading and explaining why he would love to be with a certain girl — his soulmate. 
Compared to the previous few, “Single” 
is more upbeat and returns to the vibe in the beginning of the album. “Single” is mellow and very acoustic, using a lot of chimes and background vocals, but catch-
es the listener by surprise when it suddenly 
builds up into a climatic hook complete with loud drums.
The ﬁ  nal song is The NBHD’s lead 
single “R.I.P. 2 My Youth,” which peaked at number 13 on the Billboard U.S. Rock chart in September. The NBHD goes full-rock to close the album and ends with an echoed chorus fading out, similar to how 
the album began.
Overall, “Wiped Out!” shows The 
Neighborhood’s eclectic sound and creativ-
ity. The album reveals the band success-
fully expanding its horizons and progress-
ing as artists. 
Combining different instrumentals, 
transitions, incredible singing and back-ground vocals, the band created a solid 
album for any-time-of-the-day listening. 
“Wiped Out!” has something for everyone. Listen with an open mind, and let the mu-sic take control.
MEDIOCRE ADVICESex, Misogyny, & Drake (in that order)
Hey Mediocre Advice,Why is sober sex increasingly stigma-
tized?
- Anonymous
The less common something be-
comes in society, the more it is per-
ceived as taboo. Let’s be real: Sober sex 
doesn’t occur too often for a lot of peo-ple. People don’t understand what it is; if there is anything history has taught us, it’s that humans are afraid of what 
they don’t know.
Also, it means you may actually like 
that person. Why would you EVER give 
the person you’re hooking up with any 
reason to think you actually like them? 
The smirk emoji with a bunch of water droplets is an uncomfortable stretch of personal affection, and people are out here expecting to have sober sex? 
Now, I’m a God-fearing Conserva-
tive like every other good-natured per-son out there (vote Republican, by the way) so I can’t say I’m a supporter of 
this “hook-up culture” with its premar-
ital-sex shenanigans. However, if you don’t 
remember the sex, it didn’t count anyway.
Hi Mediocre Advice,So whenever my friends 
and I go out, the guys that I’m 
with always want to stand 
in a corner and talk to the girls that we already know. I, on the other hand, want to meet new people and go out of my comfort zone. If 
I can’t get my friends to come with me, 
do I walk up to girls alone? What do you recommend?
- Lost and Confused
Listen, there’s nothing girls love 
more than a conﬁ  dent man. My advice: Ditch your friends and approach a large group of girls solo. Now, there are a 
number of icebreakers you can use that 
will help generate comfort and good conversation. My personal favorite is to go up to the ﬁ  rst girl in the group 
you make eye contact with and whis-
per in her ear, “You’re such a beautiful sleeper” or “Wow, you smell so different when you’re awake.” 
Basically, just say some-
thing that will make her laugh. Then you can go into conversation about your 
last hunting trip, why Carly 
Fiorina (even though she’s a Republican) and Hillary 
Clinton would make terrible presidents and how much money your dad makes. 
Girls love rich misogynists. Just look 
at Dan Bilzerian, Floyd Mayweather or Donald Trump. They kill it.
I think my girl likes Drake a little too 
much and it’s affecting our relationship. She keeps telling me that she wishes I was smooth like Drake, and it’s getting me down. What should I do to get that 
OVO swag?
Respectfully,
- 7Man aka 7god
First things ﬁ  rst: boots, turtleneck, 
joggers and dance lessons. Then: hair-cut, voice lessons, poetry workshop 
and prenatal classes.
Last: Run. DO NOT JOG. I repeat: 
RUN through the six with your woes (if you don’t know how that s--- goes then start over).
Have a good cry. More like Drizzy? 
Call your girlfriend, break up with her over the phone and record the conver-sation. Make a beat, use her crying as the chorus and use your crying as the hook. 
Have somebody else write the song 
using your tears, write a lullaby for children and then get casted as a part on a TV show as a disabled person. 
If your OVO swag isn’t top notch by 
then, then you’re just S.O.L. (s--- out of luck).
Simon Moskovitz is a UF English 
senior. His column appears in the Avenue section on Thursdays. If you have any questions you would like to see answered in the weeks ahead, 
please email them to mediocre.alligator.
advice@gmail.com.
Simon Moskovitz
Avenue Writer12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015
By Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer
UF students Michael Ortiz and Diego Zo-
zaya revised and personalized “The Complete 
Works of William Shakespeare (Abridged),” and the pair’s collaborative effort is premier-ing this weekend. 
The Florida Players are presenting “The 
Complete Works of William Shakespeare (Abridged)” Friday at 7:30 p.m. in the Squi-tieri Studio Theatre in the Phillips Center, lo-cated at 3201 Hull Road. 
Directors Ortiz and Zozaya were able to 
make the play their own by incorporating cur-rent events into the play and switching the cast from an all-male cast to an all-female 
cast. 
The play follows three women attempting 
to put on a production that consists of every 
Shakespeare play in under 90 minutes. The time limit causes the characters to draw up peculiar ways of interpreting Shakespeare’s works, and the directors said they are all guaranteed to leave the audience laughing.
“They do a ton of crazy stuff from a Ro-
meo and Juliet parody to Titus Andronicus as a cooking show to doing Othello as a rap,” said 21-year-old Ortiz, co-director and UF act-ing junior.
The play also includes an interesting take 
on Shakespeare’s “Hamlet.” The second act is devoted to the actresses playing out Hamlet several times, increasing in speeds with each time.
“It goes faster, and then it goes faster and 
then they do it again backwards,” Ortiz said. “It’s pretty crazy.”
Karen Marulanda, a 20-year-old UF acting 
junior, is one of the three actresses perform-ing in the play. She plays both herself and several other Shakespearean characters. Hav-ing transferred to UF this semester, this will be her ﬁ  rst time acting in Gainesville.
“I had previously seen a Florida Players 
show that left me in awe; their production of ‘Tragedy: A Tragedy’ really inspired me to join,” Marulanda said. “I also already had a 
couple of friends who were involved and they 
encouraged me to audition.”
Florida Players is a UF student-run theater 
company that allows students of all majors to explore the world of theater and show-case their work in doing so, according to the company’s website. Ortiz considers Florida Players a creative environment that provides a new outlet for people interested in theater.
“It’s a family,” he said.This is Florida Players’ ﬁ  rst show of the 
2015 fall season, but it wasn’t intended to be part of the season at all. A spot for another show had opened up, along with the oppor-tunity for Ortiz to direct a show for the ﬁ  rst time.
“The artistic director approached me about 
directing the show and I said, ‘Yeah, let’s do 
it’ and then Diego and I talked about it and we 
were like, ‘Let’s do it together,’” Ortiz said.
It was also the ﬁ  rst time directing for co-
director Diego Zozaya, 19, a UF acting sopho-more. Zozaya said directing this play was a formidable challenge but having Ortiz, one of his best friends, working with him helped make it a lot easier.
“We were going to collaborate on every-
thing and make sure it wasn’t Michael’s vi-sion or my vision but our vision together,” Zozaya said.
Since it was the ﬁ  rst time for both direc-
tors, they experienced ﬁ  rst-hand that unlike what most people think, directing isn’t just telling people what to do.
“There are other things you don’t expect, 
you know like having to ﬁ  gure out with the set 
designer what dimensions work and working 
with the light designer on what lights work and what lights don’t,” Zozaya said.
Ortiz agrees.“We’ve had to assemble a stage manage-
ment team, a team of designers; we’ve had to rewrite certain parts to get them updated and catered so it applies to women and not men; and we’ve just been helping our actresses out 
throughout the creative process as well.”
The show captivates the audience not only 
with its interaction and improvisation but 
with switching the traditional all-male cast to an all-female one. For Ortiz, making the cast all-female gives a new spin to the play and tests the concept that only males can do com-edy.
“I feel like the show kind of takes that 
idea, turns it backwards, and it really shows how great and how funny women can really be,” Ortiz said.
Zozaya also really enjoyed working with 
the actresses.
“Working with the ladies was a blessing 
because they brought so much that we could work with, and it just made our jobs easier,” he said.
The team has spent six weeks rehearsing 
the production, and the actresses have been able to practice interacting and improvising with all those who have been sitting in on their rehearsals, according to Marulanda. 
“I love all of the improvisation and au-
dience interaction elements of our show,” Marulanda said.  “It was challenging at ﬁ  rst to really differentiate each character and I had 
a lot of fun discovering how each character 
speaks and carries themselves.”
The directors also think the audience will 
be able to enjoy themselves when watching the show just as they have enjoyed them-selves working on it.
For Ortiz, it’s also a learning experience. 
He feels that by watching the play the audi-ence will get to learn how greatly inﬂ  uential 
classical theatre is and how it transcends time 
and is still relevant today.
“I feel like a couple times people tend to 
learn when they don’t think they’re actually learning,” Ortiz said.
The directors urge the audience to come 
prepared to laugh and get up on stage, but most importantly to attend the show. As Or-tiz put it, it’s three women putting on every 
Shakespearean show in 90 minutes. It sounds 
impossible but Ortiz insists that no one would want to miss this.
“Seeing is believing,” he said. UF students direct revised Shakespeare
By Aly Gill
Avenue Writer
With a donation from UF Health, Santa Fe 
College Teaching Zoo’s 21st annual Boo at the 
Zoo event will be bigger than ever this Hal-
loween.
“This is the event we do for the communi-
ty,” said Jade Salamone, the zoo conservation 
education specialist.
Zoo support specialist Michelle Hagan said 
Santa Fe Teaching Zoo, located at 3000 NW 83rd St., traditionally depended on a $5,000 budget of its own funds to host this event. This year, UF Health donated $6,000 — most 
of which will go toward purchasing candy for 
the participating trick-or-treaters, Hagan said.
Boo at the Zoo is a family-friendly Hallow-
een fundraising event taking place from 3 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Saturday. Attendees are asked to donate one canned good per person for admis-
sion. There are usually about 3,000 people 
who attend, and the cans are donated to Santa Fe Harvest and Catholic Charities, Salamone said.
She said the zoo raises about 4,000 to 6,000 
cans each year.
The Hippodrome State Theatre, Jackson-
ville Zoo and Gardens, Satchel’s Pizza and Po-modoro Café donated prizes this year for Santa 
Fe students working on the event, Hagan said.
Students in Santa Fe’s zoo animal technol-
ogy program, a ﬁ  ve-semester-long program, 
worked in small teams to create 14 themes at 
the event, Salamone said.
Some of this year’s themes are “Star Wars,” 
“The Wizard of Oz” and “Up,” she said.
Students in the program have been working 
since August to create full sets for each given theme. They will be in costumes dressed with 
props and different things they’ve made, Sal-amone said.
Kevin Castellanos, a fourth-semester zoo 
animal technology student, said he is one of six team members working on the “Beauty and the Beast” theme.  He said he will be dressed up as Lumière, the candle, and will be greeting everyone with the song “Be Our Guest.”
“All of us will be in character,” the 21-year-
old said. “We’ll have red carpet, the stained-glass pictures and all of that.”
Apart from the themed sections, Boo at 
the Zoo will have a pumpkin patch display-ing carved and decorated pumpkins from stu-dents, staff and other Gainesville residents. Danscompany of Gainesville will be perform-ing “Thriller” throughout the night and Dom-
ino’s Pizza will be selling food and refresh-
ments, Hagan said.
“Students wanted to give back to the com-
munity and they came up with this event,” Sal-
amone said. “It turned into a big thing.”Santa Fe to 
host Boo at the Zoo event
LOCAL
John Hursh / Alligator Staff
Karen Marulanda rehearses on Wednesday for Florida Players’ “The Com-
plete Works of William Shakespeare (Abridged). ” The play begins Friday.
The show premieres Friday
“Students wanted to give back to the 
community and they came up with 
this event,” Salamone said. “It turned 
into a big thing.”
Jade Salamone
zoo conservation education specialistTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
By Elena Castello
Avenue Writer
If money has kept you from going to 
music festivals like Coachella, Ultra or Lol-
lapalooza, a new website might be the so-
lution. Fund-A-Fest is an online payment 
plan system for purchasing tickets to big music festivals.
According to its co-founders, Andrew 
Cantarero, 23, and Terrel Jones Jr., 22, they came up with the idea to start Fund-A-Fest after a series of failed business at-tempts in college. Now, they’ve created a system to help people get to their dream 
music festivals.
“Some of those festivals have been some 
of my best college moments and experienc-
es,” Cantarero said. He said he would go to 
Coachella with Jones and two other friends 
every year.
Jones said those were his favorite times.“It’s absolutely unreal,” he said of 
Coachella. “Every time I leave, I’m just 
speechless. I’m like, ‘What was that?’”
But for the two college students, money 
was an issue. The cost of the festivals is 
high, at least $300, and the VIP section of 
Coachella approaches $1,000. 
So Cantarero and Jones did what any 
broke college student would do: They found a way to solve the problem.
During their senior year and after they 
graduated from the University of Oregon 
in 2014, they dedicated themselves fully to 
the founding of Fund-A-Fest and fundafes-
tival.com, the website that allows people to pay for tickets in month-by-month incre-ments based on the three plans available.
Jones said the website is self-explana-
tory. Once you access it, you choose the festival you want to attend and the time frame for paying. 
Each festival has three options: a 5-, 7- 
or 12-month plan. Then, Jones said, you put your information in and that’s it. The tickets will ship two weeks before the start date.
With each plan, the cost of the ticket 
is divided equally over the months, ac-cording to the plan. At the end, you get the ticket and festival pack. The pack is a box of sunglasses, pens and other things to 
take to the festival, Jones said.
Tickets for 2016 are currently available 
for Coachella, EDC, Sasquatch, Ultra, Out-
side Lands, Lollapalooza, Hard Summer 
and Stage Coach.
Linda Soriano, 22, is a UF public rela-
tions senior. She said she has attended Ul-
tra, Gentlemen of the Road and Coachella, and she plans to attend Coachella again in April. She pays for every festival in full.
“I do think it’s worth the price, if it’s 
your thing,” she said of the cost.
 For Gentlemen of the Road, she said 
she paid $150 for a two-day ticket and saw some of her favorite bands, such as Mum-ford & Sons and Edward Sharpe and the 
Magnetic Zeros.       
She said payment plans would help col-
lege students attend more festivals and 
help them budget their money better.
Cantarero said the tickets are pre-pur-
chased from authorized resellers or from smaller festivals, so they’re guaranteed to be real and valid; there are no third-party tickets.
“We try to make it even more than just 
a company,” Jones said. “We give it more opportunities. We want them (people) to have a community feel and get them ex-cited to go to something that they couldn’t 
afford to go to before,” he said.
There is a 14-day “grace period” with 
making payments, he said. So if, for ex-
ample, a 12-month plan is purchased and the plan falls through because no payment 
is made, it will be cancelled.
 However, all the money will be refund-ed with the exception of the ﬁ  rst month’s 
deposit.
Fund-A-Fest has sold more than 600 
payment plans, according to Jones, eight of which have not been completed.
The company’s proﬁ  ts, according to 
Cantarero, come from the pre-purchased 
tickets. On the payment plans, a portion 
is added to the ticket cost based on the month. 
For the 5-month plan, 10 percent is 
added; the 7-month plan adds 20 percent; and the 12-month plan adds an extra 30 percent, which the customer pays over the designated months. Another company, called MoonClerk, handles all the ticket 
sales.
Jones said the company has made more 
than $100,000 in proﬁ  t, though there have 
been some challenges.
“Actually doing it,” he said. “You’ve 
opened up the door to a whole new world.” He said marketing and ﬁ  nding a sponsor to support the payment plan have been the most difﬁ  cult obstacles.
Looking to the future, Cantarero said 
he’d like to expand the website into a plat-form for people to buy tickets for every-thing from the Super Bowl to the Grammy 
Awards.
“We’re kids who just love music and 
love to go to music festivals,” Jones said, 
“and want others to have that same op-portunity. We don’t want anyone to be left 
behind.”Recent graduates transform festival ticket purchasing
By Ashlyn Pinter
Avenue Writer
The UF School of Theatre and 
Dance’s Fall BFA Dance Show-
case began Wednesday. 
The show is a culmination 
of students and faculty present-ing speciﬁ  c topics they’ve come across in college.
“It happened in College” is 
about the issues that became im-portant to the dancers in their col-lege career, said Daniel Morimo-to, a 21-year-old junior in the BFA 
dance program.
“There are things in life that 
you don’t normally think about 
and these pieces present them in a way that aren’t totally obvious 
but are still pleasing to watch,” 
Morimoto said.
The show will continue 
through Nov. 1 at the G-6 Studio 
in the Nadine M. McGuire The-
atre and Dance Pavilion.
“It happened in College” show-
cases senior BFA dance students’ 
research as well as other pieces 
from the MOD (modern original dance) UF dance ensemble, in-cluding a piece from Brazilian choreographer Fernando Ferraz.
Morimoto’s project is a solo 
piece titled “Press Start To Play.” It speaks to society’s need for in-stant gratiﬁ  cation.
 The concept of his dance is the mindset of having important work but still picking the more 
satisfying thing to do.
Dancer Chloe Newman, 21, 
explained the name behind the showcase, which the seniors 
came up with.
“It’s sort of like our own per-
sonal story and how they’ve all come together,” Newman said.Newman began dancing at 
3 years old. Now, the dual BFA 
dance and history senior at UF 
is ready to show off her research project on transcription and movement.
Newman’s piece, which was 
inspired from her individual ex-perience with 9/11, is about how she can put words into move-ment. 
There are clear motifs and 
themes in each individual piece, she said.
Heavy in collaborations be-
tween choreographers and danc-
ers, the show highlights a mixed 
group of dancers.
“I do like getting to hang out 
with other dancers in a sense of not being just in class but in more 
of a community,” Morimoto said. 
“We worked hard to create these pieces together.”
Newman said one of her favor-
ite moments is when the dancers all come together as the entire crew.
“The entire show deﬁ  nitely 
won’t appeal to everyone, but 
there will be something in every 
show that appeals to someone,” Newman said. “I feel like every-one can grab something because 
we all move, and I feel like dance 
showcases being human.”
Tickets are $9 and can be pur-
chased at Gate 1 of the Stephen C. O’Connell Center, through ticket-
master.com or at the University 
Box Ofﬁ  ce starting 45 minutes be-fore the performance.Dance showcase highlights students’ personal experiences 
PERFORMANCE
Courtesy to the Alligator
Daniel Morimoto performs at the UF School of Theatre and Dance’s Spring BFA Dance Showcase in 
April. The dancer will perform his project at the Fall BFA Dance Showcase.
W ebsite allows ticket funding 
“W e’re kids who just love music and 
love to go to music festivals, and want 
others to have that same opportunity.” 
T errel Jones Jr.
Fund-A-Fest co-founderTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Unfurnished room with private bathroom in 4/4 at Gainesville Place Apartments.Close to UF with bus every 20 minutes$454 mo.Free router and modem. 727-203-1261   11-3-15-5-3
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLCReal Estate Services“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-30-15-15-5
Herring Realty3BR/1.5BA HOUSE on 1 ACRE. Located be-tween Trenton & Belle. Must see to appreci -
ate. $79,900. Call Lois Litchfield at 352-354-5341    11-2-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!" Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend 
knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. 
Call 352-219-6948       10-30-15-10-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
is now hiring cooks, pizza makers, servers, 
and delivery drivers. Apply in person at 5 SE 
2nd Ave.    11-6-15-12-14
Hiring Insurance Licensed Sales Producer
Active 4-40 or 2-20 License RequiredEmail Resume to JudyLocascio@Allstate.com     10-30-15-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Gainesville Modern
Seeks developer for new website.
Prefer flat fee for initial rollout. Submit pro-
posal w/ references to mike@mhastings.com.    
11-2-15-5-14
The MIND Study is looking for men and 
women ages 20-30 and 60+. We will com-pare both age groups regarding brain func-tion and how it may contribute to our physi-cal strength, energy and well being. Only 3 visits to our clinic. Compensation provided. Free Parking. Call 352-273-5919    11-10-15-10-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab and follow the directions.    11-13-15-12-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Office cleaner needed after 5p m,t,th,f and sat and sun time varies...Home/apartment cleaner needed somewhere in between 8-5 m-f and wed,sat,sun time varies ....weekly pay and paying 8.25/hour..MUST Have A CAR with valid license and be able to pass a background/drug test...if interested please call 352-214-0868    11-4-5-14
NOW HIRING!Lloyd Clarke Sports is seeking an outstand-ing person to join our staff. Must work 1 day on the weekends and maintain 25-35 hours per week. Apply in person only.1504 NW 13 St. 1 Mile N of UF    11-4-5-14
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with 
reliable transportation. If interested call 
(352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15RENT A
DRAGON on a 30ft gooseneck trailer for YOUR HOMECOMING PARADE FLOAT!
GOOGLE "Monty, A Dog Gone Dragon"Call 352-284-3382        11-2-15-3-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
22 Tickets
FOR SALE
4 Seats for FL vs. GA,
Jax football game. Sec. 122, Row A. 
Price: $440 for all. Call 352-494-4882    10-
30-15-3-22
Need 7 UF/UGA Tix - Together
Text 904-201-9665
Two Rows Together Acceptable
As Long As All 7 Are Together    10-29-
15-2-22
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Becky Burleigh and 
the Florida soccer team could secure a share of the SEC title with a win over Georgia tonight at 7. Read the story on pg. 20.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Donovan opens NBA coaching career
Former Florida coach Billy Donovan, who accepted the job in late April 
to become the latest coach of the Oklahoma City Thunder, won his NBA coaching debut on Wednesday night. Led by Russell Westbrook, who had 33 points, the Thunder beat the San Antonio Spurs 112-106  in Oklahoma City. AP Photo
Georgia running back Sony Michel runs the ball during the Bulldogs' 9-6 win over Missouri on Oct. 17 at Sanford Stadium 
in Athens, Georgia. 
GEORGIA IS 2ND IN THE SEC IN 
RUSHING YARDS THIS SEASON.
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
This year’s installment of the Florida-
Georgia rivalry was supposed to be a 
matchup of the Bulldogs' Nick Chubb and 
the Gators’ Kelvin Taylor.
The fate of that matchup changed when Chubb went down with a season-
ending knee injury against Tennessee on 
Oct. 10.
Instead, Saturday’s edition of the 
“World’s Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party” 
will feature two running backs with South Florida roots: Taylor and Sony Michel.  
Taylor is from Belle Glade in Palm 
Beach County, while Michel is from Plan-tation, located in Broward County. 
But despite living in opposite counties 
and attending universities that are South-eastern Conference rivals, the two have a relationship that stretches back to their 
recruiting days. 
Taylor said both he and Michel were 
featured in ESPN RISE Magazine coming 
out of high school and the two have a good relationship with each other.
When describing what kind of player 
Michel is, Taylor couldn’t help but gush over the fact that he’ll have the chance to compete in the same game against the Florida defense eyeing Georgia's backfield 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 19VOLLEYBALL
By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@brianlee_17
As the Florida volleyball team enters 
the final month of the season, the Gators have emerged from an early season rough 
patch and hit their stride recently.  
A current six game win streak has show-
cased the Gators’ potential dominance 
when the team is firing on all cylinders. 
Since the win streak began, the Gators 
have a combined set record of 18-1. 
The lone blemish came 
during a first-set loss to Kentucky on Oct. 18 by 
a score of 25-22, a match that resulted in a 3-1 vic-tory for the Gators. 
Florida has also seen 
a more efficient offense and a stout defense over 
the last six games. 
Since the Gators' last lost to Arkan-
sas on Oct. 4, the team has maintained a 
scorching .379 hitting clip. 
Prior to the streak, the team was hitting 
.296 against all opponents and only .232 in 
conference play. 
UF’s defense has also turned up the 
heat on opponents. 
While the defense was strong before 
the streak — letting opponents hit a team percentage of just .167 — the Gators have 
limited opposing offenses to a lowly .123 
during the last six games. 
On Sunday, Florida held Missouri, the 
No. 2 ranked team in the Southeastern 
Conference, to just .009 hitting as a team. Backline play 
key to UF's recent success
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Freshman Antonio Callaway has 
provided Florida’s offense with a 
spark this season that has been ab-
sent for years.
But when Saturday’s game against Georgia rolls around, the No. 
11 Gators might be without their top 
playmaker.
Callaway injured his foot in prac-
tice on Wednesday and coach Jim 
McElwain said it is too early to de-
termine if the wide receiver will play 
against the Bulldogs.
In seven games this season, Cal-laway has 308 receiving yards, sec-ond on the team only to Demarcus 
Robinson (371). Callaway’s 19.2 
yards per catch leads UF receivers who have at least 10 catches, and ranks 16th nationally.
In Florida’s 35-28 loss against 
LSU, Callaway had a team-leading 100 receiving yards on three catches and tied the game at 28 in the third 
quarter with a 72-yard punt return.
“He’s getting a little bit better ev-
ery week,” McElwain said. “We kind 
of knew what we were getting when 
we recruited him. Obviously he’s liv-
ing up to that.”
While Callaway’s status is up in 
the air, tight end C’yontai Lewis is expected to return for the first time 
since Florida’s 31-24 win against 
East Carolina on Sept. 12.Lewis, a redshirt freshman, has 
three catches for 50 yards and two touchdowns this season while also serving as an extra body for pass and run blocking.
In other injury news, backup de-
fensive tackle Khairi Clark is ques-tionable after taking a hit in practice while linebacker Alex Anzalone is expected to miss his sixth straight 
game with a shoulder injury.Freshman wide receiver's status uncertain for Saturday 
SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 19SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 19Dagostino
Callaway injured his foot in practice 18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015
Florida has cleaned up its serve and 
serve receive errors as well, a critical ele-
ment of the game that appears simple in its 
execution yet is essential for success. 
Before the recent hot streak, Florida had 
been averaging over nine service errors per 
match. 
Since then, the Gators have been aver-
aging just over seven. 
UF also is averaging only 2.5 return er-
rors per match during that span. 
“If you have really strong serve receive 
and you have a really strong serve behind the end line, you’re going to win that bat-tle,” senior setter Mackenzie Dagostino said. 
“We always come into practice and talk 
about the serve and serve-pass battle, and I think in these … past matches we’ve done a great job of winning those battles.” 
Despite the Gators’ recent success 
against the top programs in the league, they remain focused on not overlooking opponents at the bottom of the conference standings. 
On Friday, the Gators will travel to Co-
lumbia to face South Carolina (9-12, 2-7 
SEC) before heading to Athens to take on 
Georgia (5-15, 0-8 SEC) on Sunday. 
The Gamecocks and Bulldogs are ranked 
last and second-to-last, respectively, in the conference. 
While South Carolina has lost seven of 
its last nine games, Georgia has lost 14 of its last 15. 
But the Gators and coach Mary Wise 
have repeatedly said the team isn't over-looking any SEC foe. 
Unlike earlier in the season, Florida 
isn’t taking any opponent for granted. 
“We aren’t really overlooking anyone 
anymore. There’s always an opportunity for a game to go a direction that we don’t want it to go,” Dagostino said. 
“We have to make sure like we’re treat-
ing them the like we would treat any team in or outside of the SEC and making sure we’re playing the best volleyball the Gators can play.” Grier appeal process 
progressing: McElwain said 
Wednesday that UF is compiling everything needed to assist 
quarterback Will Grier with his 
NCAA-ordered suspension.
While McElwain did not have a 
definitive timetable for the appeal 
process, he said he expects it to start 
shortly.
“We’re working very closely ob-
viously with his family and him to put everything that we can into the 
NCAA,” McElwain said.
Grier was suspended on Oct. 12 
for 12 months after failing an NCAA-
regulated drug test for performance-
enhancing drugs. 
He has not been at practice dur-
ing the portions open to the media 
since his suspension. McElwain said Grier is still dealing with personal is-sues.
“There’s a pretty traumatic little 
deal he’s gone through there, right?” 
McElwain said. “He’ll be there. He’s 
still part of the team.”
D-line facing another tough 
test: Florida’s loss to LSU marked 
the first time this season where the Gators’ defense failed to record a 
sack.
Saturday could make it two 
games in a row.
Georgia boasts a starting offen-
sive line with 116 combined starts 
and has given up just eight sacks this 
season, which ties for second in the 
SEC and 14th nationally.
Florida’s defense, on the other 
hand, is tied for third in the confer-
ence and 19th overall with 21 sacks.
Coaching reunion:  McEl-
wain has ties with a two members 
of UGA’s coaching staff. Defensive coordinator Jeremy Pruitt, like McEl-wain, comes from the Nick Saban 
coaching tree. McElwain has also 
worked with UGA offensive line coach Rob Sale at Alabama from 2008-2011 when Sale was a strength 
and conditioning assistant and of-
fensive analyst while McElwain was the team's offensive coordinator. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19  
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Will Grier runs out of the tunnel prior to 
Florida's 14-9 win against Kentucky on Sept. 19. 
VOLLEYBALL,  from pg17UF is averaging 2.5 return errors per match in the last six gamesGeorgia running back.
“He’s a great back. He’s 
physical, runs hard, very fast. 
He can do it all. I’m looking for-
ward to it,” Taylor said.
However, when strictly com-
paring the two on the field this 
season, both have had their 
share of success and misfortune.  
While Taylor has been the 
No. 1 running back for the Gators this season, Michel re-
placed Chubb as the Bulldogs' 
feature back after Chubb went down. 
Michel stepped up and filled 
in nicely against the Volunteers, rushing for 145 yards on 22 car-ries, albeit in a 38-31 loss. 
And in just his second career 
start in Georgia’s 9-6 win over 
Missouri on Oct. 17, Michel 
rushed for 87 yards.
For the season, Michel has 89 
carries for 508 yards — an av-
erage of 5.71 yards per carry — 
and four touchdowns.
Taylor, on the other hand, 
has struggled at times, as he’s rushed for 463 yards on 129 car-
ries — an average of 3.59 yards 
per carry.
Michel is also a threat out of 
the backfield catching the ball. 
For Georgia, Michel is third 
in receptions (16) and second in touchdowns (three), which only complements his ability to run the ball with a different style 
than Chubb.    
“Sony is more of like a slash-
er, gets downhill really quickly, 
kind of fast,” Florida defensive back Nick Washington said. 
“I think that’s the big differ-
ence between the two.”
In recent years, Georgia has 
used a two-headed attack in the backfield. 
First it was Keith Marshall — 
before injuries caught up to him — teaming up with Todd Gur-
ley, and then came Gurley with 
Chubb. 
Now, Michel is next in line to 
carry the torch.
Using a stable of running 
backs has made the Bulldogs into one of the top rushing of-fenses in the SEC over the past four seasons.
Georgia has been ranked in 
the top three in the SEC in total rushing yards in three of those seasons — 2012 (fourth), 2014 
(first) and 2015 (second).
“It’s been a joy to watch them 
over the years, really pound de-
fenses and decide, ‘Look, you’re going to have to stop us in the 
run game before we even think 
about throwing the ball.’” Flor-ida running backs coach Tim Skipper said.
Coach Jim McElwain is aware 
that UF will have work on slow-ing down Michel and the other running backs that Georgia has on Saturday.  
“That guy’s got juice now,” 
McElwain said of Michel. 
“Don’t let them think they 
don’t have running backs there. 
A couple of the guys are as high-
ly recruited guys as there were in the United States of America.
“These guys are difference 
makers. We have our work cut 
out for us."FOOTBALL,  from pg17Michel has 508 yards 
and four touchdownsNOTEBOOK,  from pg17Grier has missed practice recently 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF outside hitter Carli Snyder digs the ball during Florida's 3-0 win against T exas 
A&M on Oct. 9 in the O'Connell Center. 20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2015
SOCCER
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
While Florida’s regular season ends on the 
road, it can be considered a homecoming for 
one of the team’s — and the collegiate sport’s — biggest stars.
Savannah Jordan, the Southeastern Con-
ference leader in goals with 17, played high school soccer in Fayetteville, Georgia, which sits just under 100 miles from the site of to-night’s match at 7 in Athens, Georgia — home of the Georgia Bulldogs.Though the sample size is small — she’s 
played only one game for UF in her home state — Jordan has fared well when playing in the Peach State.
In her freshman season, she scored two 
goals at Georgia, each assisted by former Gator Havana Solaun.
“It’s fun because you have your family base 
and everyone there supporting you,” senior defender Claire Falknor said about playing a game in her home state.
Falknor experienced a similar affair early in 
the season, returning to her home state of Ohio 
to compete in an eventual 1-0 overtime loss against Ohio State.
“It’s always good to come back home,” 
Falknor said, “and show how far you’ve 
came.”
While Jordan recognizes what it means 
to return to where her athletic development began, she knows that this game provides a greater motivation than to just display her tal-ent to the local crowd.
“If we get this win,” Jordan said, “we kind 
of clinch the SEC title.”
It’s that simple. A five-game win streak has 
helped launch the Gators into prime position to 
win the conference.With No. 6 Florida (13-3-1, 7-2-1 SEC) tied 
with Missouri at the top of the SEC table, a win 
against Georgia (5-10-1, 4-6-0 SEC) will clinch at least a share of the regular season title.
In the case that the Gators win along with 
Missouri winning its home game against Texas A&M tonight, it will be the second time in three years that Florida would share the regular sea-son title.
“(Tonight’s game) is just another opportu-
nity for us to work on some things going for-ward,” coach Becky Burleigh said. 
Read the rest of the story online at alligator.
org/sportsUF can clinch share of SEC title with win at Georgia tonight