We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 44 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015
Sophomore looking to forge her 
own path at Florida
Haley Lorenzen comes from an athletic 
background, pg. 15
Police arrest man for mobile meth lab
Police dogs sniffed out the drugs, pg. 4
New restaurant gives away free pizza to 
students
It is called Dough Religion, pg. 5Walkers light lanterns to ﬁ  ght cancer
Check out the story and photos, pg. 3
By Alyssa Fisher
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org 
In the forests of Florida, black bears 
reign supreme.
They spend their days shufﬂ  ing around 
the forest ﬂ  oors, their coarse black fur 
shining under specks of sunlight. The largest mammal in the state, they are the kings of their territory.
They also have a target on their backs.About 3,500 black bears live through-
out seven fragmented regions in the state. The number shows tremendous growth, according to the Florida Fish and Wildlife 
Commission. So beginning Saturday, the hunt is on to thin the population by about 
320.
The hunt, which will run from Satur-
day until Oct. 30, is part of the commis-sion’s overall approach for “conserving 
and managing” bears.
Others call it murder.
To Julie Watkins, the executive direc-
tor of Jacksonville-based nonproﬁ  t The 
Girls Gone Green, the hunt will be cruel 
and it will be bloody.
“On Oct. 24, our great state will go to 
war with its wildlife.”
Angry state residents have protested, 
petitioned and plead.
Hunters say this was a long time com-
ing.The commission stands by its decision, 
recently ﬁ  elding calls from reporters and referring to its information packets and videos.
The hunt is on, and now the kings may 
lose the throne.
Lone Creatures
Black bears are solitary creatures.Unlike lions, they don’t patrol their 
kingdom. They’re not territorial. In fact, 
they don’t interact much with each other.
However, they tolerate one another 
around food.
“They’re like a big walking stomach,” 
said Dana Karelus, a third-year UF wild-
life ecology and conservation doctoral student.
They live in covered areas along rivers LOCALTHE HUNT IS ON
By Paisley Papineau
Alligator Contributing Writer
The iron throne will be in someone 
else’s hands — The Swamp Restaurant.
The famed symbol of power from the 
TV show “Game of Thrones” will be com-
ing to The Swamp Restaurant on Wednes-
day as part of a Halloween event hosted by 
HBO. The Swamp was one of three college venues chosen to host the Halloween party this week, which is designed to promote the HBO app, HBO NOW.
The ﬁ  rst 1,000 people to show the app 
on a device when doors open at 7 p.m. Wednesday will receive free entry, said HBO’s GMR Marketing account supervisor 
Vica Shobe. Other attendees will pay a $5 
cover.
In addition to the throne, the event 
will have themed decorations from “True Detective,” “True Blood” and “The Left-
overs.” Shobe said they chose the “creepy” 
shows on HBO to set the atmosphere.
“We’re decking out The Swamp Restau-
rant to make you feel like you’re stepping into the world of HBO,” Shobe said. “The restaurant has been such a great partner in allowing us to do that.”
Shobe said the event was budgeted for 
about 1,000 people to get in for free, but 
she did not give a speciﬁ  c amount.
“We have a Halloween party every 
year, but this is the ﬁ  rst HBO event,” The 
Swamp’s general manager Nicholas Smith said.
Jonathan Frish, a UF business admin-
istration sophomore said as a “Game of Thrones” fan, he is looking forward to the event.  
“I’m excited to see what sort of things 
HBO is doing to reach UF students on cam-pus,” the 19-year-old said.
Michael Rankin, 20, who was one of six 
UF students chosen to be a campus agent for the event, said the event is an opportu-
nity to work with the HBO creative team.
“I’m excited to see people’s reactions 
and see this come to life,” the UF public 
relations senior said. “It will be completely 
outside of people’s imaginations.”   The Swamp to 
get ‘Game of Thrones’ prop
“W e’re decking out The Swamp Restaurant 
to make you feel like you’re stepping into 
the world of HBO,”
Vica Shobe
GMR Marketing account supervisor
Bear hunt begins Saturday
SEE BEARS,  PAGE 8Alyssa Fisher / Alligator Staff
Julie Watkins, the executive director of Jacksonville-based nonproﬁ  t The Girls Gone Green, spoke out against bear hunting in a rally 
she organized in downtown Orlando last month. The Florida Fish and Wildlife Commission’s statewide bear hunt begins Saturday and will run through Oct. 30. It’s goal is to harvest about 320 bears to manage the population.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Halloween Show
Celebrate the spooky season 
with “Puppets of the Dead: Punk Halloween Show,” a thrilling and funny punk-inspired Halloween 
variety show hosted by pup-
pets. Local puppetry company DolphinWizard Co. and local mu-sicians present an evening of fes-tive fun Saturday at 10:30 p.m. at Maude’s Sidecar, 101 SE Second Place. UF students and alumni will perform on the patio by the Hippodrome State Theatre, fea-turing horror movie burlesque, creepy music played by local mu-sicians, handmade puppets and 
more. The show is free, with tips 
and donations encouraged.
Halloween theme at Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, Room 1031, located at 970 Natural Area Dr., east of the Samuel P. Harn 
Museum of Art. Everyone is wel-
come to attend and learn about Toastmasters. This week’s theme is Halloween. It’s OK to wear a Halloween costume and bring food for a potluck and open house.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 44
HIGH  84° LOW  63°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Friends ofthe
Library
LibraryFriends ofthe
Library
Most prices 25¢ to $4
In 64 categories such as Mystery, Sci-Fi, comics, 
manga, non-ﬁction, education, cook books, 
DVDs, CDs, vinyl records, and more
Bring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check Only
T ue/s.end1/2
pric/e.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.end1/21/21/21/2
pric/e.endpric/e.endpric/e.endpric/e.end
We/d.end ever/y.end We/d.endWe/d.endWe/d.endWe/d.end
thin/g.end10¢
ever/y.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end10¢10¢10¢10¢
FOLACLD.org
@FOLACLDBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check Only
.com/FOLACLD@FOLACLD
430 N. Main St.Sa/t.end. Oc/t.end 24
Su/n.end. Oc/t.end 25
Mo/n.end. Oc/t.end 26
T ue/s.end. Oc/t.end 27
We/d.end. Oc/t.end 289a/m.end - 6p/m.end
noo/n.end - 6p/m.endnoo/n.end - 6p/m.endnoo/n.end - 6p/m.endnoo/n.end - 6p/m.end
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.
Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the last two years, Chris 
Abeleda was in the spotlight.
He stood on stage and told his 
story — a diagnosis of acute lym-
phoblastic leukemia in January 2013. But Thursday, he wasn’t on stage.
Instead, he was everywhere. He 
was directing organizations, mak-ing phone calls and talking to can-cer survivors at the annual Light the Night Walk as a director for the 
event, an event where he had pre-
viously been honored. The walk, which began and ended at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, raised money for 
the Leukemia and Lymphoma So-
ciety.
Abeleda was one of several di-
rectors behind the walk, which was sponsored by the UF chapters of Pi 
Delta Psi Fraternity and the PreMed 
American Medical Student Associa-tion.
Abeleda, 21, said the walk meant 
everything to him.
“It’s really full circle for me, and 
I wanted to make it the best it could be,” the UF psychology senior said.
About 1,000 people attended the 
walk, which was personal for many.  
Cassandra Imrie, a 20-year-old 
health education and behavior ju-nior, was at the walk registering 
students to become bone marrow 
donors through the Gift of Life Bone Marrow Foundation.
Imrie also walked for her moth-
er, who was diagnosed with leuke-
mia her freshman year.
“I’ve literally never seen some-
one so sick in my entire life,” she 
said.
Her mother has been cancer-
free for about a year after receiving a bone marrow transplant through Gift of Life, prompting Imrie to be-come involved in the organization, 
she said.
Her booth was one of about 20 student and community organiza-
tions that had games, food and 
rafﬂ  es on the north lawn of the sta-
dium before the walk. There were also live student performances.
Anyone could participate, but 
registered walkers who raised more 
than $100 received a free shirt and 
lantern. The lanterns were for sup-porters, survivors and loved ones who had died from cancer.
The theme of the walk was sim-
ple: “Hope is Alive.”
“There’s no greater weapon than 
hope because to hope is to live, and to hope is to be alive,” said Gabe 
Abreu, who helped Abeleda orga-
nize the walk.    
Abreu, a 20-year-old UF mechan-
ical engineering junior, held a yel-
low lantern while walking. It was in 
memory of his mother, who passed away from stage-four breast cancer Sept.10.
“We have to remind ourselves 
that hope will always be there,” he said. Walkers light lanterns to ﬁ  ght cancer
ABOVE:
Meahway Ngu, a 19-year-old 
UF nursing sophomore;  Jan Dela Cruz, a 21-year-old UF biology senior; Edward Wu, a 20-year-old UF computer sci-ence junior and Jessie Wang, a 20-year-old UF psychol-ogy junior; compete in a head-shaving race at the Light the Night Walk on Thursday. Cruz and Wu volunteered their heads after their organization, Health Educated Asian Lead-ers, raised the most money among three other Asian-American Student Union orga-nizations for the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society.
Photos by Danielle Veenstra / Alligator StaffHundreds of supporters, patients and survivors of leukemia and lymphoma walked with colored lan-terns at the Light the Night Walk on Thursday outside Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Red lanterns marked supporters, yellow lanterns signiﬁ  ed those who had lost a loved one and white lanterns indicated sur-vivors and patients. The event raised money to fund research to ﬁ  nd blood cancer cures.By Katelyn Vogt
Alligator Contributing writer
After Keira Hornyak, 20, saw her 
friend Chase Honeycutt struggle with 
cystic ﬁ  brosis, she wanted to ﬁ  nd a way to help.
Honeycutt has to take several pills 
a day to help manage cystic ﬁ  bro-sis, which is a disease that causes a buildup of mucus in the lungs, mak-ing it difﬁ  cult to breathe.
Now, Hornyak is hosting the ﬁ  rst 
UF Cystic Fibrosis Climb on Saturday to raise money for the Cystic Fibro-sis Foundation, which searches for a 
cure. 
Students will run through Ben Hill 
Grifﬁ  n Stadium from 9 a.m. to noon. 
The cost is $35 for general admission and $25 for UF students. Participants 
can register at the stadium starting at 8 a.m.
Breakfast and lunch will be 
served, and country singer Blaire 
Hanks will provide live music. Par-ticipants who do not want to partici-
pate in the climb but still enjoy the 
food and performances can pay a $15 
virtual-climber fee.
“I want Chase to see a day where 
he doesn’t have to worry constant-
ly,” Hornyak, a UF political science and telecommunication junior, said. 
Hornyak said befriending Hon-
eycutt made her remember to enjoy 
life.  
“I think our climb here is just 
meant to be,” she said.
The climb shows participants 
what it’s like to live with cystic ﬁ  bro-sis, Hornyak said.
“Stadium climbing is really taxing 
on the lungs, even for people who 
have normal function,” she said.
UF aerospace engineering fresh-
man Conner Dowd said he is excited to run at the event.
“A lot of people in college get out 
and run, and this gives college stu-
dents an opportunity to go out and 
run for a good cause,” the 18-year-old said. 
Hannah Korah, the vice president 
of Climb UF, said she hopes at least 
500 people participate, setting a prec-
edent for future climbs in Gainesville.
“We’re trying to help add tomor-
rows for those who are affected by 
CF,” the 19-year-old UF neurobiolog-
ical sciences sophomore said.
The Associated Press
TRENTON, N.J. — Stepping into the furor 
over eye-popping price spikes for old generic 
medicines, a maker of compounded drugs will begin selling $1 doses of Daraprim, whose price recently was jacked up to $750 per pill 
by Turing Pharmaceuticals.
San Diego-based Imprimis Pharmaceuticals 
Inc., which mixes approved drug ingredients 
to ﬁ  ll individual patient prescriptions, said Thursday it will supply capsules containing Daraprim’s active ingredients, pyrimethamine and leucovorin, for $99 for a 100-capsule bot-tle via its site: www.imprimiscares.com.
The 3 1/2-year-old drug-compounding ﬁ  rm 
also plans to start making inexpensive ver-sions of other generic drugs whose prices have skyrocketed, Chief Executive Mark Baum told The Associated Press.
“We are looking at all of these cases where 
the sole-source generic companies are jacking the price way up,” Baum said. “There’ll be many more of these” compounded drugs com-ing in the near future.
The high price of prescription medicines in 
the U.S. — from drugs for cancer and rare dis-eases that cost hundreds of thousands of dol-lars a year down to once-cheap generic drugs now costing many times their old prices — has become a hot issue in the 2016 presidential race.
News that Turing, Valeant Pharmaceuticals 
International Inc. and other drugmakers have 
bought rights to old, cheap medicines that are 
the only treatment for serious diseases and then hiked prices severalfold has angered pa-tients. 
It’s triggered government investigations, 
politicians’ proposals to ﬁ  ght “price gouging,” heavy media scrutiny and a big slump in bio-tech stock prices.At the eye of the storm is former hedge fund 
manager Martin Shkreli, head of Turing Phar-maceuticals, who was scorned last month for buying rights to and then increasing by more than 5,000 percent the price of Daraprim, a 62-year-old drug with no competition. The startup drugmaker paid Impax Laboratories $55 million in August for rights to Daraprim, which treats a rare parasitic infection called 
toxoplasmosis that mainly strikes pregnant 
women, cancer patients and AIDS patients.
Imprimis, which primarily makes com-
pounded drugs to treat cataracts and urologi-
cal conditions, will work with health insurers 
and prescription-beneﬁ  t managers in each state to make its new capsules and other com-pounded generic medicines widely available, Baum said.
“We’re geared up. We’re ready to go as 
soon as the orders come in,” he said.
Compounded drugs are typically made to 
ﬁ  ll a doctor’s prescription for an individual 
patient, sometimes it’s because the mass-pro-
duced version is in short supply or completely unavailable and sometimes to allow for cus-tomized formulations or dosages. Compound-ers don’t need Food and Drug Administration approval to do that, unlike drugmakers mak-ing huge batches of drugs on complex produc-tion lines.
Baum said Imprimis will produce its pyri-
methamine/leucovorin capsules, using bulk ingredients from manufacturing plants ap-proved by the FDA, at its own facilities in Al-len, Texas; Folcroft, Pennsylvania; Irvine, Cali-fornia and Randolph, New Jersey.4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015
POLICE DOGS SNIFFED 
OUT THE DRUGS.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested an 
Ocklawaha man Wednesday af-
ternoon after police said he drove 
with more than 70 grams of meth-amphetamine oil in a mobile lab-
oratory.
At about 9:45 a.m., Daniel 
R. Jones, 37, followed a car too closely on State Road 93, causing authorities to pull him over, ac-
cording to a police report.
Jones’ hands shook as he 
handed an ofﬁ  cer his driver’s li-
cense, and a police dog smelled drugs outside Jones’ truck after he refused a search, accord-
ing to the report.
The Domes-
tic Highway En-
forcement Task 
Force searched 
the truck before seeing possible 
meth lab supplies, according to the report.They stopped to let a Clandes-
tine Laboratory Response Team 
take over the possibly explosive 
materials, according to the report.
Authorities found a gas gener-
ator, tubing, lighter ﬂ  uid and tin-
foil, along with a zip-locked mask 
and other supplies commonly used to make meth, according to the report.  
The team also found a glass jar ﬁ  lled with about 71 grams of meth oil, according to the report.
Police arrested Jones on charg-
es of possessing drug parapherna-lia, possessing meth with intent to sell and trafﬁ  cking more than 
14 grams of amphetamines.
Authorities took him to the 
Alachua County Jail where, as of 
press time, he remains in lieu of a $95,000 bond. Police arrest man for mobile meth laboratory
DUNK’D
T ed Spiker, UF’s College of Journalism and Communications department 
chair, splashes into a dunk tank in front of Weimer Hall on Wednesday as part of the UF Campaign for Charities. A $5 donation allowed three chances for participants to dunk the college’s faculty, staff and students into a vat of water throughout the day.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
“There’ll be many more of these 
compounded drugs coming in the near 
future.”
Mark Baum
Chief Executive Country singer Blaire Hanks will perform
Jones
NATIONAL
 Drug compounder oﬀ  ers cheap 
version of costly Turing drugUF club climbing to new heights for cystic fibrosis FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
THE NEW RESTAURANT IS 
CALLED DOUGH RELIGION. 
By Van Miller
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lizzie Wetzel got in line an hour early  to 
get pizza Thursday.
But the 21-year-old zoology senior was still 
behind about 50 people as she waited for free 
pizza from Dough Religion, a new create-your-
own-pizza restaurant located at 1404 W. Uni-
versity Ave. The restaurant, which has been open for four days, offered free 11-inch pizzas 
to anyone who came through the doors from 5 
p.m. to 10 p.m.
“A lot of restaurants devote a certain budget 
to marketing,” General Manager David Scott said. “Rather than taking on a traditional form of marketing, we wanted to do something that let people know right away that we’re here.”
The giveaway was exactly what brought 
Wetzel to the line.
“I’m a pizza person, and there’s free pizza, 
so that was a perk,” she said.
Scott said giving away free pizza on the 
restaurant’s third day of operation was going to be expensive, but very few marketing cam-
paigns are free and the company would rather 
give away free pizza to take on a more viral approach to marketing. Scott said about 1,500 people attended the event and the restaurant gave away 450 pizzas. 
Meghan Asbury, a 19-year-old sustainabil-
ity and the built environment sophomore, said she had been waiting in line for half an hour and was excited about the new restaurant. She 
said she speciﬁ  cally likes the restaurant’s close 
proximity to campus.
“The building is brand new and it looks re-
ally nice inside,” Asbury said.Scott said the owners, who are from Col-
orado, have opened a similar restaurant in Summit County, Colorado. Dough Religion is sharing its Gainesville space with OoZoo bar, which serves craft beer and cocktails as well as gourmet sandwiches.
Jennifer Ford, the manager of Target Copy, 
located adjacent to Dough Religion, said she was happy to see so many people standing outside her store and did not think the line of 
people would hurt her store’s business.
“Any new business is good business,” Ford 
said.   New restaurant gives away free pizza to students By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested two 
Georgia men early Thursday morn-
ing after police said they tried to escape with about 6 ounces of marijuana and a loaded revolver. 
About 12:45 a.m. Thursday, Ra-
sheed Napier, 21, and Taqwan Mc-Crary, 21, traveled west on South-west 20th Avenue with a broken license-plate light, according to a police report.  
As the ofﬁ  cer started to follow 
the men, they used a turn signal and pulled into a bus stop, where 
the ofﬁ  cer then stepped out of his 
car, according to a police report. The men sped off and eventu-ally turned into University Terrace West Condominiums while the of-ﬁ  cer followed with lights and siren on. A dead end stopped the men, who parked in a ditch and ran. 
The ofﬁ  cer reportedly chased 
the men and saw Napier throw a dufﬂ  e bag over a fence before ar-resting him. Another ofﬁ  cer arrest-ed McCrary shortly after, and po-lice later found the marijuana and 
a loaded .38-cal-iber revolver in the dufﬂ  e bag. 
Police ar-
rested Napier and McCrary 
on charges of possessing drug paraphernalia and marijuana 
for sale. Napier was charged for 
the concealed 
ﬁ  rearm. 
Authorities 
took both men to the Alachua 
County Jail where, as of press time, Na-
pier remains in lieu of a $160,000 
bond. McCrary was released at 
5:25 p.m. Thursday on a bond of 
$32,000.   Police chase Georgia 
men, ﬁ  nd marijuana
Napier
McCrary
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
CARVING CREATIONS
Julia Halprin (left), a 21-year-old UF biology senior, carves a pumpkin during the Health and Education 
through Research, Outreach, Empowerment and Service’s Halloween pumpkin-carving social on Nor-man Field on Thursday. HEROES provided students with free pumpkins and pizza.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnDarts & Laurels? With school in high gear, more like 
Charts & Quarrels, are we right? But seriously, thank good-
ness Halloween is right around the corner because we could 
all use a break. Even though we still have a week to go, in 
the meantime you can hold yourself over with this week’s edition of…
Darts & Laurels
On Wednesday, American pop culture became singularly 
focused on “Back to the Future,” as Oct. 21, 2015, marked the day Doc Brown and Marty McFly arrived in the “future” 
in “Back to the Future Part II.” Here in Gainesville, tele-
communication senior Trace Hance, accompanied by The Pride of the Sunshine marching band, dressed up in Marty McFly’s signature denim jacket and puffer vest while pull-
ing up to the Plaza of the Americas in a DeLorean, blowing 
up Yik Yak and other social media platforms in the process.
Although we mourn for those who weren’t able to spot 
this gentleman (some on our own staff were only able to spot him cruising down Southwest 10th Street), we applaud 
both his commitment to the bit and his willingness to make 
Oct. 21, a normally innocuous day, an utterly memorable one.
Great Scott! Trace Hance gets a Laurel.
As reported by NPR on Thursday, a Gallup poll shows 58 
percent of Americans view the National Riﬂ  e Association in 
a favorable light. Everyone, no. 
If it were within AP style, we’d have a sad face and/or 
thumbs down emoji around this spot. A Dart for the people 
who should know better.
This week, trailers were released for two of the most 
popular franchises geek culture has ever known: little-
known but beloved cult classic “Star Wars,” and the cul-
tural juggernaut “The Venture Bros.” on Adult Swim. 
Wait, no, other way around. In any case, “Star Wars: The 
Force Awakens,” is slated to be released in December with 
the long-awaited sixth season of “Venture Bros.” to follow in early 2016.
For shaking up the winter by giving cultural consumers 
a long, warm, geeky embrace, “Star Wars” and “The Ven-ture Bros.” get bespectacled, nerdy and pop-culture-literate  
Laurels.
Rep. Julio Gonzalez (R-Fla) recently introduced a bill in 
the Florida house similar to that of Indiana’s controversial “religious freedom” bill. 
How similar, you ask? They’re similar to the point that Rep. Gonzalez’s bill may 
actually be even worse! According to the Miami New Times, the bill would “give religious organizations, individuals, some privately owned businesses and health-care facilities the right to deny certain services to people if they feel that 
their religious or moral beliefs would be broken.”
Yikes. 
At least Indiana’s bill had the beneﬁ  t of being relatively 
well-deﬁ  ned as to who it was discriminating against: The vagueness of this bill — which will most likely wither on 
the vine — leaves the door open for businesses to discrimi-
nate against whomever they want for whatever reason they please.
In the rich tradition of so many Florida Republicans be-
fore him, Rep. Gonzalez gets a Dart.Nazism is more than a buzzword — take it seriously
On the Internet, no one knows you’re not a 
Nazi. Watch people argue online. There’s a very high likelihood that, sooner or lat-er, someone in the conversation will try to win the argument by comparing his or 
her opponent to Hitler/the Nazis/the Holocaust. A guy named Godwin actually came up with a sociological law to describe this phenomenon: “As an online discussion grows longer, the prob-ability of a comparison involving Nazis or Hitler approaches 1.”
Why are we so quick to compare people and positions we 
disagree with to the Third Reich? It makes sense that we use 
the Nazis to smear our opponents because they were so hor-riﬁ  c and evil they are pretty much universally despised. This 
has been reinforced by depictions of Nazis in popular culture 
that associate the symbols of National Socialism with villainy. For example, Darth Vader’s helmet was modeled after the distinctive Wehrmacht Stahlhelm, while the Imperial Storm-troopers were meant to evoke the Nazi’s own Stormtrooper battalions. Hitler and his legions have become a shorthand for what evil men do. However, what we shouldn’t do is follow the Internet’s lead and reverse the negative connotation with Nazism and use it as a weapon against people and things we 
don’t like. 
Disturbingly, Godwin’s law is creeping into real life. We 
saw it in the National Review article that smeared Bernie 
Sanders as a “National Socialist,” because the self-professed socialist also believes American labor should be protected. Same thing with Ben Carson’s comparisons of the Obama Ad-ministration to Nazi Germany; they both make the mistake of seeing the word “socialist” in “National Socialist German Workers Party” and assuming that means Hitler was a guy 
who loved unions and proudly sported red on May Day. This 
ignores the obvious fact that as a socialist Jew and a mixed-race liberal, Sanders and Obama would’ve been carted off to Buchenwald long before the Final Solution began. National Socialism is a different name for fascism, an essentially racist idea that sees socialist class struggle as a scheme by the Left. Hitler hated socialists and persecuted them violently. But it doesn’t stop there. Carson’s comments 
go beyond ignorant mislabeling. After this year’s 295th mass shooting, Carson said had the Jews not surrendered their guns to Hitler, the Holocaust would not have happened. 
Apart from National Riﬂ  e Association hacks, 
this statement was widely condemned by Holo-caust scholars as “false, silly and insulting.” Jews did mount an armed resistance against Hitler. The most famous example is the Warsaw ghetto upris-ing, which was crushed by the better armed-and-trained professional army sent to destroy it. Your 
fantasy that you and your pump-action shotgun are the only thing that stand between freedom and tyranny is just that. 
Leave Holocaust victims out of this.  
But the most recent and bafﬂ  ing misuse of the Holocaust 
in rhetoric comes to us from Israel’s premiere race-baiting 
hack: Benjamin Netanyahu. In a recent speech, Bibi told the audience that, despite an avalanche of accessible evidence to the contrary, Hitler did not originally intend to exterminate the Jews. In this ﬁ  ctional story, it was the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem — himself an anti-Semite and admirer of the Nazis — who gave Hitler the idea to “burn (the Jews).” This con-
versation never happened. The Final Solution was entirely the 
work of the NSDAP high command. Professor Moshe Zim-mermann of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, along with legions of professional historians of the Holocaust, said this was tantamount to Holocaust denial. Netanyahu showed a shocking willingness to whitewash Adolf Hitler for an easy jab at Palestine. 
I’ve been to Buchenwald. I’ve seen the ovens which swal-
lowed tens of thousands of bodies, the scratched tiles on the 
mortician’s table where they removed gold teeth and shrank 
heads for trophies. I’ll never be able to fully wrap my mind around the reality of something that horrible. I like to think seeing that place gave me an appreciation for its gravity. It’s not something you can casually toss around to rile up your base of the paranoid and the ignorant.
Alec Carver is a UF history Junior. His column appears on 
Fridays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Last week, a pretentious dude 
refused to learn about con-sent, thus teaching us all why consent is important.
University of Warwick 
student George Lawlor got a Face-book invitation to an event about consent — “I Heart Consent Train-ing Sessions,” speciﬁ  cally — and, instead of checking “yes” and nev-er going like a normal person, he chose to make the event all about himself.
More accurately, he took the occasion to 
tell the Internet how upset he was that he was invited to learn about consent because he is a “nice guy.” A picture posted along with the article even showed Lawlor holding a sign reading “This is not what a rapist looks like.”
Like all “nice guys,” he would never as-
sault someone because he knows the differ-ence between “no” and “yes.”  He went so far as to say he loves consent.
Lawlor actually said the event facilita-
tors should do something other than accuse people of “being vile rapists-in-waiting,” but did his Facebook event invitation come with the tagline, “We think you’re going to assault someone, come learn how not to”?
Lawlor didn’t say who invited him to the 
event, but because it’s a Facebook event, it’s fairly safe to say he wasn’t the only invitee. 
Most likely, an event facilitator or attendee 
checked off his or her entire friend list for “invite.” 
Most likely, no one sat at a computer and 
thought, “George Lawlor seems like the type to assault people,” and singled him out for an invite.
We also don’t know what the event was 
focused on. George didn’t go into detail about 
what the event would cover. He did suggest, 
however, that the event creators should do something more useful than hold a training session like this.
Lawlor said event attendees “could be 
making a difference by actually going out and campaigning, volunteering and caring for other people.” This training session could very well have been a way to teach other stu-
dents what messages to use when campaign-
ing or how to be empathetic when caring for survivors.
The event could also have been a forum 
to learn more about consent. After all, just because you know about a topic that doesn’t mean you are done learning.
Lawlor also made an effort to point out 
how hurt he was by the invite. He was “over-come by anger.” It was “a massive, painful, bitchy slap in the face,” the “biggest insult I’ve received in a good few years.” Never once did he actually advocate for sexual 
assault awareness or consider the 
point of view of a sexual assault survivor. It’s doubtful Lawlor even considered rape may hurt — emo-tionally and physically — a good deal more than a Facebook invita-tion.
There’s a certain part that bothers me 
about the article. Lawlor went on and on 
about how he loves consent, how he has a 
deep understanding of it, but then said “the only people who’ll turn up will be people who (surprise, surprise) already know when it’s okay to shag someone.”
So why was he so offended by the invi-
tation? He identiﬁ  ed the people who will go as not rapists — they’re advocates. If he un-derstands consent as well as he claims, he 
should be among these advocates and try to 
seek a deeper understanding of sexual assault and rape culture.
Which begs the question: Why did he take 
such offense to the invitation? Why did it hit so close to home?
It may be because, for all intents and pur-
poses, George Lawlor is what a rapist looks like.
Because, truth be told, sexual assault can 
be committed by anyone. Sexual assault is committed regardless of race, class, sexual orientation, gender, hair color, education lev-el, location or upbringing.
Perpetrators and survivors look different. 
We do know some statistics, though.
For example, 52 percent of perpetrators 
are white — like George Lawlor. Eighty-two 
percent of rapes were committed by someone 
the survivor knew — George Lawlor certainly has friends, family, co-workers and acquain-tances. Rapists don’t look a certain way, as Lawlor seems to think they do.
The point of this article is not to paint this 
student as a perpetrator. But Lawlor is some-thing just as bad — a rape apologist. 
He refuses to gain a deeper understand-
ing of consent and help end rape culture, and he doesn’t even think we should teach people such a “simple” concept anyway.
But if consent really is as simple as Lawlor 
made it out to be, if, as he suggested, every-body understands it, why does sexual assault still happen?
Robyn Smith is a journalism senior. Her 
column appears on Fridays. Consent lessons: not as hurtful as rapeColumn
Every year, folks in the gay, 
lesbian, bisexual, transgen-der and queer communities 
observe National Coming 
Out Day in the month of Oc-
tober.
After the 27th anniversary last 
week, I looked through positive stories of coming out on blogs and social media, where individuals gained more visibility with their now-public identities. It led me to wonder 
about the other stories, the difﬁ  cult and trou-
bling ones that are far too common.
There’s nothing particularly wrong with 
“coming out,” but when everyone is made to 
feel impelled to do so, we ought to ask: Why?
The Human Rights Campaign, one of the 
more well-known LGBTQ+ advocacy organi-
zations, had this to say on its blog:
 “Coming out — whether it is as lesbian, 
gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or allied — STILL MATTERS. When people know some-one who is LGBTQ, they are far more likely to support equality under the law.”
Comments like this produce a narrative 
that stigmatizes folks who do not make the effort to be visible in every social relationship.
But to clarify, coming out is a process one 
has to continuously negotiate with throughout 
his or her life. There’s not any one moment 
or period of time when one comes out all at once because we live in a heteronormative so-ciety where the “norm” is to be perceived as 
straight and cisgender.
But some would even go so far as to say 
folks who don’t come out have internalized 
homophobia or another phobia of the identity or identities they associate themselves with.
This is a completely uninformed, neoliber-
al position that fails to take into account how visibility can affect different segments of our communities in different ways.
It places responsibility on individuals for 
systemic problems: High rates of homeless-ness among queer youth, escalating murder rates of trans women of color, police harass-ment and a disproportionate vulnerability to 
sexual violence are but a few of the troubles 
that disproportionately affect LGBTQ+ com-munities.
Twenty-two trans women have been mur-
dered this year alone, and according to the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs, transgender people were found to be seven times more likely to expe-rience police violence and physical 
violence from law enforcement in 
2013.
This is far from the only shock-
ing statistic. According to a survey 
administered by the Williams Insti-
tute, about 40 percent of homeless youth in the U.S. identify as LGBT.
These are issues people who 
haven’t come out yet may be concerned with, 
as doing so may subject them to violence. 
As the aforementioned statistics show, these fears are far from unfounded.
Then, of course, there is the fear of rejec-
tion from family and friends who they may need for either ﬁ  nancial or emotional support. Not coming out shouldn’t be perceived as the internalization of some sort of phobia, but in-stead, someone being strategic and cautious 
when navigating their daily lives.
For some, coming out at some point in 
their lives doesn’t make things better; it makes 
things bitter.
The promise made by some LGBTQ+ 
organizations that self-imposed visibility in every corner of life will effectively undo sys-temic problems is a preposterous one.
But if coming out is indeed a desirable out-
come for everyone, why not work to minimize or abolish the issues that stand in the way of making that possible? The reduction of vio-lence, rather than making sure every member 
of the LGBTQ+ community is “out,” needs to 
take priority.
Aubrey Krampert is a UF journalism 
junior. Her column appears on Fridays.Coming out: sometimes, it gets bitterColumn
Robyn 
Smith
opinions@alligator.org
Aubrey 
Krampert
opinions@alligator.org
“There's nothing 
particularly wrong 
with 'coming out,' 
but when everyone is 
made to feel impelled 
to do so, we ought to 
ask: Why?”and creeks, the 32-year-old said. 
They’ll spend much of the time in thicker forest, but it also depends 
on the season and what berries 
are fruiting. They’ll travel to ful-fill their food needs.
Plant matter, berries, fruits 
and nuts make up 80 percent of  black bears’ diet. They graze the forest floor muzzle-first, and they especially love saw-palmetto ber-ries.
The rest of their diet is most-
ly insects: ants, termites, bees and wasps. Only a small portion comes from meat, and usually it’s 
a raccoon or opossum.
Females tend to weigh 130 to 
180 pounds, while the males keep 
to a hefty 250 to 350 pounds, she said.
Yet, they’re quick and are rare-
ly heard sauntering through the thick forest understories.But unbeknown to them, 
they’ve always been watched.
Bear populations reached a 
low of 300 to 500 in the 1970s, and the wildlife commission kept a watchful eye.  
Nick Wiley, a certified wildlife 
biologist and the executive direc-tor of the commission, broke the process down in an editorial-like news release addressed to Florida 
residents.
In 2002, the commission con-
ducted a scientific population 
survey that estimated Florida was home to about 3,000 bears. Re-
search continued before seeking 
reclassification.
The commission adopted an 
imperiled species listing and bio-
logical status review process in 
2010, which Wiley wrote included in-depth biological and scientific standards from the International Union for Conservation of Nature.
The Florida black bear was 
the first species to be evalu-ated through it. The commission found the bears’ rate of increase 
required a management plan.
“FWC’s listing program is 
considered to be an exceptional 
national model and is highly re-spected by the conservation com-
munity across our nation,” Wiley 
said.
Noting a strong recovery 
trend, the commission removed 
the black bear from the state’s 
threatened species list in 2012.
“To suggest the FWC does not 
have good scientific information about bear populations would be 
ignoring the science and other 
factual information associated with black bear conservation,” he said.
Seven Bear Management Units 
across the state were created as part of the commission’s 10-year management plan to define bear population locations and “effec-
tively manage and conserve Flori-
da black bears.”Of the seven, four are open 
to bear hunting: south, central, 
north (which includes Baker, Co-
lumbia, Duval, Hamilton, Nas-sau, Suwannee and Union coun-ties) and the east panhandle.
Residents of these regions be-
gan to see the population growth for themselves for the first time.
Searching For Another Way
Myriam Parham has always 
seen the Florida black bears.
She said she feels like she’s 
been fighting to help keep bear hunting from growing since 1991.
The president and co-founder 
of Florida Voices for Animals, 
Parham said she’s not satisfied 
with the results.
“As the largest land mam-
mal that is said to made a come-back...3,000 is just not a viable 
population, and they’re too frag-
mented,” Parham said.
Parham was one of about 100 
who rallied against the bear hunt 
last month in downtown Orlando.
“Too cute to shoot,” one sign 
read. “Killing is not conserva-
tion,” said another. “Killer com-missioner Lisa Priddy” was on at 
least two.  
Julie Watkins grabbed the lec-
tern, her blond hair pulled back 
into a ponytail and blue eyes fiery 
with passion.
She said more than 30,000 citi-
zens reached out to oppose to the 
“trophy hunt,” but it only took seven on a commission to seal the 
fate of hundreds of black bears.
“Officials have given hunters 
permission to take out their bow 
and arrows and their guns and 
murder hundreds of bears who 
have as just as much a right to be here as we do.”
Their prized sense of smell 
came up often. Their huge ol-
factory nerve helps them detect 
scents from about a mile away, making their noses among the most powerful.
It also leads them to humans 
and their garbage — the main is-sue at hand.
Bryan Wilson, the Central 
Florida coordinator for the Ani-
mal Rights Foundation in Florida, 
spoke out at the rally about how bear sightings are more common than ever.
“But the overwhelming 
amount of these bear sightings are not, ‘Oh, it’s going to hurt me.’ It’s, ‘Oh, there’s a bear.’ And that’s what Florida is about,” he 
said.
He said commission is confus-
ing hunting and conservation, 
and its role should work for safety 
of the wildlife and to ensure the 
public and the wildlife co-exist peacefully.
He said people come to Florida 
to see its wildlife.
“Seminole County has recently 
rebranded itself as Orlando North to draw in more tourists, but I know I wouldn’t want my family to go on a hike in the woods and see guy hauling a bear carcass with a huge hole in it or an ar-row sticking out of a bear’s head 
while the cubs are dragged be-
hind the bears.”
Chuck O’Neal, the founder of 
Speak Up Wekiva, said state for-
ests have been depleted of their 
natural food supplies, which pushes the black bears into sub-urbia.
Waste management and elimi-
nating harvests of palmetto ber-ries on state lands would benefit bears and improve human safety, he said.
“You should have all your 
science in place before you hold your first hunt in 21 years, espe-cially when you’re dealing with an icon animal,” he said in regard 
to the commission.
Former state Sen. Lee Constan-
tine (R-Fla) addressed the crowd 
about his initiative to give ev-
eryone west of Interstate 4 bear-
proof trash cans.
“A solution is not to kill 300 
bears,” he said. “A solution is to find a way to allow the bear-
human contacts to be minimized. 
Bears will not come into neigh-borhoods if we take away the at-tractants.”
The trash cans will eliminate 
95 percent of bear-human con-tact, he said, citing the commis-sion.
“As we take away their food 
supply, we take away their hab-itat for human use. We need to make sure we’re not also giving them something to come into our 
neighborhoods, like putting a 
Burger King in your front door.”
This will send them back to 
the woods.
“We need to find them habitat, 
and we need to do everything we can as humans, as the protectors of this earth,” Constantine said. “We need to find every way we 
can to protect those bears and ev-
ery other wildlife.”
Justifying Conservation
Diane Eggeman, the commis-
sion’s director of Hunting and Game Management Division, is available on your computer to answer your questions about the 
weeklong bear hunt.
In a 5-and-a-half-minute video 
released Tuesday, she stands in 
front of a log cabin in a powder-blue-collared Florida Wildlife 
Commission top.
“The bear hunt is part of 
FWC’s overall approach for con-
serving and managing bears. The 
purpose of the hunt is to stabilize 
bear populations in four of the seven bear management units of Florida.”
She said the number of safe-
guards in place make this a lim-ited and conservative hunt. Dogs and baiting are not allowed.The hunt will be in four of seven regions8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015
BEARS,  from pg1
Bear Management Units
BMU 
(Year of Estimate)
East Panhandle 
(2002)Population
EstimateKnown
Mortality (Avg.)Harvest 
Objective
600 80 40
North
(2014)550 10 100
Central
(2014)1,300 160 100
South
(2002)700 20 80*
*Objective adjusted due to Big Cypress not hunted in 2015
West Panhandle
Hunting regions are highlighted and 
include the East Panhandle, North, 
Central and South FloridaEast Panhandle
Big BendNorth
Central
South Central
SouthNon-Hunting Regions include 
Big Bend, South Central 
and West PanhandleAccording to the commission, 
hunters may pursue bears with 
bows and crossbows, muzzle-
loading guns, riﬂ  es, pistols, re-
volvers and shotguns.
It’s also a short season, Egge-
man said. If the harvest objective 
is met in any given Bear Manage-
ment Unit, the bear season in that unit will close. Otherwise, it will run until Friday.
“We will be monitoring the 
harvest and the season on a day-to-day basis,” she said.
The hunt can take place on all 
private and some public lands, 
and all hunters must check their 
bear within 12 hours at any of the established bear-check stations.
Beginning Saturday, updated 
information on unit closures will 
be made available every day of 
the season around 9 p.m. on the website and social media. The Bear Hunting Hotline also will be 
open.
Each unit’s harvest objective 
was determined starting with the 
most current population estimate for that unit, Eggeman said. A 20 
percent mortality rate was need-
ed to offset birth rates. That was taken into account as well other mortality factors, like vehicle col-
lisions.
According to the commission, 
the bag limit is one bear per per-
son per season. Bears must weigh at least 100 pounds to be harvest-ed. A bear with cubs present may not be harvested.
Relocating is unsuccessful, 
Eggeman said. They come back and risk bringing conﬂ  ict to new areas. She said hunting is a good tool to stabilize populations be-
cause it’s really the only effective 
tool there is for managing these growing populations on a large scale.
As of press time, almost 3,000 
bear permits have been sold, and fees will go toward bear conser-vation efforts. Permits went on sale Aug. 3 and will stop at 11:59 
p.m. tonight.
Joseph Roberts, the ranch 
manager and president of Roberts 
Ranch Game Reserve in Palatka, 
said he thought the hunt was a 
great idea from the beginning be-cause of overpopulation. He said 70 to 80 bears wander into his 7,000-acre property.
All 18 of his members have 
permits to participate in this hunting season. Many of them have been threatened by bears.
“(The black bears) lost fear of 
humans as a predator,” he said. “They’re standing their ground more and more.”
Roberts said he thinks the 
commission is being conserva-tive with its numbers and with its hunting procedures. Black bears are illusive and hard to hunt even 
without the guidelines.
“I’ll be lucky to get two to three off my property,” he said.
There isn’t enough food for the 
bears, he said. Without a recur-ring hunting season, there will be 
a bunch of starving animals.
“(The protestors) are a bunch 
of tree-hugging hippies who don’t understand that things need to be 
managed.”
Most people would assume 
that Eric Hellgren would oppose 
the bear hunt.
A professor and the chair of 
the UF wildlife ecology and con-servation program, he studied bears in his doctoral program at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and 
State University. Outside his of-
ﬁ  ce is a framed photo of a bear.
But in fact, Hellgren supports 
the Florida Fish and Wildlife 
Commission and its decision.
“I keep track of things with 
bears because it’s been a part of 
my life for 30 years.”
He said the commission has 
a comprehensive, multi-faceted plan, and hunting is a standard management strategy. It will also help slow down bear-human con-
ﬂ  ict.
“The FWC is dedicated to wild-
life,” he said. “Everyone has the 
same objective: conserving, not simply preserving.”
Fighting Against the Odds
Some tried to stop it, but they 
failed.
Chuck O’Neal, the founder of 
Speak Up Wekiva, ﬁ  led a lawsuit July 31 asking for a temporary in-junction to the hunt. It failed Oct. 1 after Leon Circuit Judge George Reynolds III ruled the commis-
sion’s methodology rational.
Today, activists around the 
state will rally in solidarity 
against the bear hunt.
Gainesville resident Julie Cas-
sel said she has been involved in the ﬁ  ght against the hunt since the beginning. She volunteered to organize the city’s rally, which is 
today from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
on the corner of Main Street and University Avenue. All posters and literature will be provided; 
however, she said she thinks peo-
ple will want to bring their own.
“People want to bring their 
own to express their own issues (with the hunt),” she said. “I 
haven’t seen (people) this pas-
sionate for a long time. There’s people not sleeping at night.”
Cassel herself is “ totally heart-
broken” about the start of the hunt and has been involved in many protests and events against it since June. She said she’s very involved in the community and 
has contacts in various envi-
ronmental, political and animal rights groups. She mainly used social media to get the word out 
and expects 75 percent of the 100 
who clicked “Join” on the Stop the Bear Hunt Rally — Gainesville Facebook page to attend.
She’ll be in a group of vol-
unteers from the Stop the Bear Hunt movement at the Micanopy checkpoint Saturday between 8 a.m. and 9 p.m., but they will have to check their emotions at 
the entrance.
“We’re instructed not to ex-
press our opinion,” she said. 
“We’re monitoring to make sure 
the count is conﬁ  rmed as soon as 
possible.”
She said some of the volun-
teers plan to take pictures of the hunt for the future.
“The FWC bear hunting is just 
ridiculous. It’s not going to be good.”
The Time Has Come
The protesters prepare by 
mounting their posters.   
The hunters prepare by load-
ing their riﬂ  es.
The bears prepare for just an-
other day.
The hunt is on — and it begins 
Saturday.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
BEAR,  from pg. 8FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLCReal Estate Services“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-23-15-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-131For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
MopedsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $1900
95 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       10-30-15-10-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ACROSS
1 Locale of TV’s
Krusty Krab
restaurant
7 “The Hitch-Hiker”
director Lupino
10 Meatless lasagna
ingredient,
perhaps
14 “I wanna go too!”
15 Presumed
threats to letter
carriers
17 “ ... according to
my abilities”
18 Half, statistically
19 Familiar material,
on the base?
21 __ loss22 The Hammer of
baseball
26 Backbone of
capitalism, on thebase?
31 Natural mole fur
hue
33 Balm source
34 Hand analog35 Fruity quaffs36 “Actions speak
louder than
words,” e.g.
38 Short pooch, for
short
39 It’s hardly a
smash
40 Lowlands feature41 __ metabolism42 Disciplinary
action, on the
base?
46 Undemonstrative
sort
47 Med. recording
48 Important find, on
the base?
56 Cleaned, in a
way
59 Lethargy cause
60 One assessing
sentiment
61 Digital image
format
62 It keeps the team
together
63 Calculating64 Studio equipment
DOWN
1 Companion to
Artemis
2 Simplicity
3 Related4 2014 Best Rock
Album Grammywinner5 Spring (from)
6 Mean
7 Teen __8 “And there you
have it!”
9 Old
10 Problem for a
conductor
wannabe
11 1930s-’40s
slugger
12 Limited
13 Mil. morale
booster
16 Oaf20 Lacking color23 Best for
consumption,perhaps
24 Panasonic
headquarterscity
25 Staircase
support
26 Southwestern
community
27 No. twos28 Perennial political
debate subject
29 Priest in 1
Samuel
30 N.T. book written
by Paul
31 Soothing
applications
32 Add to the family36 “What a piece of
work is a __!”:
Hamlet
37 Legendary fighter
38 Broadway flier
40 Coins of old
Venice
41 Colorful tropical
perennial
43 Clearasil target
44 Guys
45 Mrs. Miller’s
partner in a 1971
Altman film49 Scribbles
50 Hamilton’s
undoing
51 Modest sentence
52 November
honorees
53 Rylan of “Guiding
Light”
54 Currency of Iran
55 Doesn’t shut up
56 Le Carré figure
57 Ply with flowers
and chocolate
58 JFK was one
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/23/1510/23/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, October 23, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Collins Reinforcing is now hiring Rodbusters 
rebar ironworkers experienced and non ex-perienced for work at the Gainsville Standard Call 828 442 9798 or 828 659 2867    10-27-14-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
is now hiring cooks, pizza makers, servers, and delivery drivers. Apply in person at 5 SE 2nd Ave.    11-6-15-12-14
LOWE'S MASS HIRING EVENT!
HELD FRIDAY, OCT. 30, 2015
At 3500 SW Archer Rd, 32608
Apply at www.lowes.com/careers
Once complete, applicants may
Be called for an interview slot.
Lowe's is an equal opportunity affirmative 
action employer and administers all personnel 
practices without regard to race, color, religion, 
sex, age, national origin, disability, sexual ori-
entation, gender identity or expression, marital 
status, veteran status, genetics or any other 
category protected under applicable law.
10-26-15-3-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364   10-23-1-14ATTN: CDL Drivers- 2 CPM Pay Increase! $2k Sign-On BonusSee The CountryLove your Job and TruckCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782 www.drive4melton.com    10-23-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE   10-23-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that pro-
vides  a service? Place your ad 
in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-
FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
A North Florida sign-language teacher and/or lead teacher aide is presently on duty in Alachua County. Call my service, obtain ref-erences, etc. 352-375-8606     10-26-5-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    10-23-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    10-23-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    10-23-1-15Don't forget to tell them:"I found it in The Alligator!"
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Oxygen ConcentratorInogenOne - Regain Independence.Enjoy Greater Mobility. NO more Tanks!100% Portable Long-LastingBattery. Try It RISK-FREE! ForCash Buyers Call 1-800-768-4124    10-23-1-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    10-23-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    10-23-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
15 Services 15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections
The UF Student Physical Therapy Association’s 
RACE FOR REHAB  K
where:when:
how:
Halloween 
themed 
5k walk/runOctober 24 2015 - 8AM!
UF Commuter LotGale Lemerand DR
Sign up at active.comor mail registration to:2700 NW 4th Place Gainesville, FL 32607UF women's basketball forward 
Haley Lorenzen comes from an All-American family, but the sophomore is hoping to make a name for herself this season. Read the story on pg. 15. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida volleyball to face Arkansas
The Gators will clash with the Razorbacks tonight at 7 in the O'Connell 
Center. The game will be broadcast on SEC Network. UF has won four straight games, including a four-set victory at No. 20 Kentucky on Sunday. For a preview of the match, go to www.alligator.org/sports. Well, we’ve reached the bye 
week of the season and the Gators are sitting at 6-1, with a 4-1 record in the Southeastern Conference 
following Saturday’s loss to LSU. 
Other than Florida looking for a 
new kicker, it’s been a relatively slow week for coach Jim McElwain and the team. 
However, here at the AlligatorS-
ports Brand Picks Column, we don’t believe in bye weeks. 
Arguing this week’s Washington 
vs. Stanford game is alligatorSports assistant editor Luis Torres and alli-gatorSports staff writer Graham Hack.  
Washington will win 
because...
This game is a battle between a 
pretty good offense in Stanford — 33rd in the country — versus a good defense in Washington, which ranks 32nd in the nation in total defense. 
The Huskies are also 16th in the 
country in scoring defense as they al-low just 16.8 points per game. 
And while the game is in Palo 
Alto, I’m going with the old rhetoric that defense always travels and I will take the Huskies in this game. 
The biggest thing Washington will 
have to worry about is Christian Mc-Caffrey, but as long as they can slow him down, the Huskies should leave Stanford with the W.  
— Luis Torres
Stanford will win because...
Well, I picked Stanford to make 
the College Football Playoff earlier this week, so there really wasn’t much of an option here. 
But in all seriousness, this team is 
on a roll right now, particularly on of-fense. 
Led by running back Christian Mc-
Caffrey, who ranks ﬁ  rst nationally in all-purpose yards, the Cardinal hasn’t scored below 40 points in a game in more than a month. PICKS
SITE: Your Couch (Capacity: 4)
KICKOFF: All Day, Saturday 
TV /RADIO: Every Channel
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 16Gators set sights on Senior Day 
SOCCER
UF nets last-second goal to beat Gamecocks
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
The Florida soccer team will lose three de-
fensive-minded players at the end of the sea-
son, but their focus hasn’t shifted to nostalgia.
Seniors Claire Falknor, Lauren Smith and 
Christen Westphal will play in their ﬁ  nal home 
game as Florida Gators on Sunday, when No. 
8 Florida (12-3-1, 6-2-1 Southeastern Confer-ence) hosts Arkansas (5-9-1, 1-6-1 SEC) at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.With their collegiate careers nearing their 
conclusion, the three seniors haven’t focused 
on the past.
Falknor said that the idea of potentially 
playing her ﬁ  nal game in Gainesville hasn’t hit 
her yet.
“It would be nice to get another shutout as 
a team," Falknor said when asked about her goals, "and then winning the SEC champion-ship and a national championship would be really nice.”
The Dayton, Ohio, native has started every 
game the past two seasons for coach Becky Burleigh and was named to the 2014 All-SEC 
Second Team.
Collectively, the seniors have provided this 
year’s Gators squad with 12 assists, a goal and 
— above all else — veteran leadership.
Freshman goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese said 
the presence of Falknor, Smith and Westphal on the pitch in front of her has helped her de-velopment as a player incredibly.
“Those three are massive on defense,” 
Marckese said. 
“Having them there and being able to learn 
from them, it’s not even the same position, just learning from them and how they play has been huge helping me understand the game 
UF defender Claire Falknor waits for the start of the second 
period during Florida's 2-1 win against Troy on Aug. 11 at the soccer practice ﬁ  eld at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator StaffBy Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
With time expiring in No. 8 
Florida's match against No. 17 
South Carolina on Thursday, UF's Liz Slattery sent a ﬂ  ick over the right side of the pen-
alty area that sailed over the 
goalkeeper’s outstretched arms. 
In a double-overtime battle 
for the top spot of the South-eastern Conference, every sec-ond would count. 
Despite a slow start, the 
Gators persevered with Slat-tery's last-second goal being the decider in Florida's 2-1 victory over the Gamecocks at James G. Pressly Stadium.  
The Gamecocks started the 
game with a scoring chance early off a long throw-in that challenged the Gators by draw-
ing freshman goalkeeper Kaylan 
Marckese off of her defensive line — the ball sailed wide.On the Gamecocks' (11-4-1, 
5-3-1 SEC) next opportunity — the Gators wouldn’t be as lucky.
UF allowed another long 
throw-in in the sixth minute, South Carolina again drew Marckese off of her line and the ball found the back of the net as the Gamecocks took an early 
lead. 
The goal was scored by soph-
omore Savannah McCaskill who 
leads the Gamecocks with 10 goals this season. 
The early goal was the eighth 
that the Gators (12-3-1, 6-2-1 SEC) have given up in the ﬁ  rst half this season. 
“We knew this wasn’t going 
to be easy,” Burleigh said. 
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15“W e said if something bad 
happens we’re just going to 
reset and we’re going to be 
ine.”
Becky Burleigh
UF soccer coach
SEE SENIOR,  PAGE 15The last home game is SundayFRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
and the position and how we play as a team.”
Marckese said the seniors are a tight knit 
group off the field as well, contributing to 
team camaraderie.
“The three of them together, they’re really 
good friends so that helps,” Marckese said.
“They’re great about bringing in the team 
and talking to everybody.”
With a team that brought in a 15-mem-
ber freshman class, guidance on the field is something the seniors were able to provide this season.
Burleigh said the three of them have been 
great mentors for the younger players, their 
leadership qualities made evident through 
their work ethic.
“You see them out here early before prac-
tice, you see them leading on the field and explaining things to people that need more instruction,” Burleigh said. 
“They’re good role models and good 
teachers of the game and just good people.”
Westphal and Smith have split corner kick duties this season after Smith returned to the 
lineup prior to the Oklahoma State game.
Westphal, a Brecksville, Ohio, native, was 
in a starting role since arriving on campus in 
2012. She is a two-time All-SEC First-Team member and a 2013 All-American.
Westphal has had the most productive 
season of her career, assisting on nine goals and scoring one on a ball that was meant to find the foot of junior forward Savannah Jor-
dan.
Westphal said after Thursday night’s 
overtime win against South Carolina that 
Sunday will be an emotional day for her.
“My whole family is going to be there,” 
Westphal said. “That’s going to make it even more special. ... It’s going to be cool to have them in the stands.”
Smith, a defensive midfielder from Eustis, 
Florida, has given Burleigh a versatile option in the midfield and along the defensive back-line, tallying two assists.
When asked about Sunday’s match, Bur-
leigh said the thoughts of her and the seniors always rush back as the season winds down.
“It’s always a very special game.” SENIOR,  from pg14Falknor has started every 
game the last two seasons UF WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
Haley Lorenzen is entering her 
second season with the Gators, hav-
ing been named to the Southeastern Conference All-Freshman Team last year. 
For most, that’s quite an accom-
plishment. For Lorenzen, the athletic achievements of her parents have left her with a lot more to live up to.
Lorenzen doesn’t just come from 
any all-american family — she comes from the all-american family. 
Her father, Al Lorenzen, was a 
McDonald’s All-American in high 
school and was named Iowa’s Mr. 
Basketball in 1984 before going on to play at the University of Iowa. 
Haley’s mother, Karen Napoli-
tano, was a First-Team All-American while playing field hockey at the Uni-versity of Iowa in 1986 — a year that also included a national champion-ship for the Hawkeyes. 
It would come as no surprise that 
the daughter of such a pair would be incredibly talented and athletic, and that’s certainly the case with Haley. 
Back in high school, she was 
named the 2013-14 Gatorade Iowa Girls Basketball Player of the Year — an accomplishment that she calls the most important of her high school 
career. 
“I think my greatest accomplish-
ment was being Gatorade Player of 
the Year from Iowa just because it’s such a prestigious award,” she said. 
“It takes into account your grades, 
your impact on the community and also your athleticism.”
To begin to understand Haley Lo-
renzen, a good place to start is that very quote. 
That particular award was im-
portant to her not only because it recognized her as a good basketball player, but because it recognized her as a well-rounded person. She casu-ally throws the word “athleticism” 
on there at the end, like the cherry 
atop a proverbial sundae. 
Unlike the Gatorade award, All-
American athletes are usually voted on by members of the media who very rarely take into account any-thing beyond performance and ath-letic ability. 
And while Lorenzen has the 
talent to join her parents as an All-American during her time at UF, perhaps in her mind there’s more to being all-american than being named an All-American. 
Take, for example, what her 
mother said of what the recruiting process was like for her daughter.
“If you’ve met Haley, she’s a re-
ally earnest kid, so she tried to return every e-mail and every phone call — it was ungodly. And then the kid was up until 11:30, 12 o’clock every night returning e-mails to coaches,” she said.
“For all of the schools that were 
in her top ten, she called all of the coaches herself to tell them her deci-
sion.”
Earnest is defined as “resulting 
from or showing sincere and intense 
conviction.” For Haley, that convic-tion is to being who she is without worrying about the athletic accom-plishments of her parents.However, it hasn’t always been 
that way. 
“For a while when I was younger, 
it was a lot of pressure,” she said.
“Playing sports wasn’t as fun that 
way, and so I talked with both my parents and they’re like ‘Haley, we know you’re gonna do great things. You don’t have to do the same things we did, you don’t have to do that, but we just want you to be yourself.’ And 
that within itself was so freeing.”
Napolitano feels that even though 
her daughter was never pressured to 
live up to the lofty standards of her parents, Lorenzen will still surpass their athletic achievements down the road. “Haley’s kinda funny. She’s a kid 
that’s done so much, but the thing 
sometimes that wavers with her is 
her own confidence. I’ve often said to her that I honestly think she’ll be better than both of us and she some-times shakes her head and I think she’s starting to believe that,” Na-politano said. 
When it comes to her future, Hal-
ey has her sights set on the WNBA. 
However, given the choice, her 
legacy as a Gator is going to be one that puts the team’s importance and success over her own. 
“We walk in here every day and 
we see the WNBA players up there, the All-Americans and the people who played on the olympic team and things like that,” she said.
“But the legacy I wanna leave 
is how I positively impacted people and how much the team improved. Like, yeah, it would be amazing to be up on there with coach (Muriel) Page and DeLisha Milton-Jones and things like that but at the end of the day, I just wanna make this program better.”
While living up to the All-Amer-
ican status of her family would be ideal for Lorenzen, it’s far from the most important thing she wants to accomplish. 
Her mother, for her part, said 
that she would love to see Haley be-stowed with that honor because she works so hard, among other things 
that most parents would say about 
their daughters. 
Lorenzen would likely agree, but 
keeping true to her convictions, her ultimate goal for her time as a Gator has nothing to do with herself and everything to do with those around her. 
“We walk into the complex every 
day. We see all these trophies, right? Not one of them is ours. So for me, that’s winning an SEC title and hope-fully an NCAA championship.”
Haley Lorenzen looking to forge her own path at Florida
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF sophomore forward Haley Lorenzen looks to shoot during Florida's 59-54 win over Stetson on 
Dec. 14 in the O'Connell Center. 
“We said if something bad happens 
we’re just going to reset and we’re going 
to be fine.”
Unable to control possession early on, 
the Gators were searching for a goal-scor-
ing opportunity of their own. 
That’s exactly what they got when 
junior forward Savannah Jordan got the 
ball, breaking through the Gamecocks’ back line on a pass from senior defender Christen Westphal.
Jordan kept the ball until the goalie 
made her move and pushed it to the left towards the far post — tying the game 1-1 
in the 21st minute. 
The goal was the fourth time this sea-
son that Westphal linked up with Jordan 
on a scoring play. 
Westphal leads the SEC with nine as-
sists.  
In the 58th minute, Marckese made an-
other youthful mistake as she made a poor throw back into play after picking the ball 
up. 
The ball went straight to South Caroli-
na forward Raina Johnson and she ripped it towards goal, but Marckese made a kick 
save to keep the game square at 1-1. 
The Gators were able to break their 
streak of late-game giveaways as the game headed into overtime in an attempt to find 
a victor. 
Florida had given up a goal in the 89th 
minute or later in three of the last five 
matches leading up to Thursday’s match. 
Florida attacked first, getting pressure 
and forcing one corner kick early in the 10-minute period. 
Both sides came out with an increased 
intensity during the overtime period and 
were still tied after the first half of OT. 
And as the final ten seconds were being 
counted down in the stadium, the Game-
cocks tried to play the ball out of bounds but the Gators pushed toward the box.
The ball found junior midfielder Liz 
Slattery, who made one defender miss and chipped the ball in the direction of the goal as time expired. 
“I can’t even believe that just hap-
pened,” Slattery said. 
“It was weird. I felt really calm and I 
felt like everything slowed down. The goal itself was really slow and everything kind of slowed down as I touched it and it went right over her head.” SOCCER,  from pg14W estphal leads SEC in assists16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2015
Meanwhile, the Huskies 
haven’t scored more than 31 in 
the same span, and that came against Utah State. 
At home, Stanford will come 
away victorious.
— Graham Hack
Now onto the picks!
We have a tie for ﬁ  rst place, 
both sporting 31-24-1 records. 
Leading things off is Alligator managing/online editor Jordan “Flashed his teachers for beads” McPherson, who saw one of his former teaching assistants on Bourbon Street and one thing led to another before McPherson was adorned in sweaty beads. 
Jordan, I know it’s New Or-
leans, but that doesn’t mean you can show some skin on a work trip. 
Tied with Jordan is the Palm 
Beach Post’s Anthony “No show” Chiang, who had the Post send him to Baton Rouge for the LSU game, even though he hasn’t been in Gainesville since the Ole Miss game. 
Hey Anthony, I thought you 
like commuting from unincorpo-rated Dade County to Gainesville? Maybe you should get the Post to ﬂ  y you out to Gainesville more. 
In third place we have Gator 
Country’s Nick “Clickbait” De La Torre, who admitted he enjoys when the Gators punt so he can post his oft seen “Punters are Peo-ple Too” picture to receive mul-tiple retweets. 
Come on Nick, get your priori-
ties in order. 
At least you didn’t post it be-
fore a punter was suspended. In a tie with Nick we have al-
ligatorSports assistant editor Luis “Pull over” Torres, who couldn’t stop throwing up after leaving New Orleans. 
Torres found himself so sick he 
almost insisted we bring him back to the hotel to miss the game. 
Luckily he made a last-minute 
recovery, but the fact remains that you have the liver of a small child. 
In ﬁ  fth place with a 29-26-
1 record we have the Orlando Sentinel’s Edgar “21st Century” 
Thompson, who has been revo-lutionizing his work by taking 
videos of coach Jim McElwain’s press conferences. 
It’s okay, Edgar, we can help 
you with all the newfangled tech-nology. 
Even though small children 
can ﬁ  gure out iPhones doesn’t mean we expect you to. 
In sixth with a 27-28-1 record 
is alligatorSports editor Graham “God said no” Hall, who while 
on Bourbon Street was shouting 
"God said no" to people on the second ﬂ  oor balcony when they asked him to ﬂ  ash for beads. 
As you can expect, he eventu-ally did. 
C’mon Graham, don’t pretend 
you have high standards. 
We’ve all seen what type of 
body you have. 
In seventh place with a 25-
30-1 record we have 247Sports’ Thomas “the Annexation of Puer-to Rico” Goldkamp, who is keep-ing busy during the bye week by watching the movie “Little Gi-ants” to give McElwain trick play 
ideas. 
Come on Goldkamp, that mov-
ie won’t give you Les Miles-like 
inspiration. 
Stick to breaking down pee-wee football. 
And in dead-ass-last with a 
piss-poor record of 25-32-1 is al-ligatorSports’ staff writer Graham “Bourbon Street is boring” Hack, who moped around New Orleans on Friday night with a pouty face on. 
Come on Graham, we know 
you were disappointed there weren’t any bars serving choco-late milk and that the music was 
too loud, but try and have some 
fun. 
Next time we’ll tuck you in 
early with a glass of Metamucil, 
you grandpa. 
PICKS,  from pg 14
  HALL  LT  HACK  JM
TAMU vs Miss (-6)  TAMU  TAMU  TAMU  TAMU
FSU (-6.5) vs GT  FSU  FSU  FSU  FSUUtah vs USC (-3.5)  UTAH  UTAH  UTAH  UTAHClemson (-7) vs UM  CLEM  UM  CLEM  CLEMAU vs Ark (-5.5)  AU  AU  AU  ARK
UK vs Miss St (-11)  MISS  UK  UK  UK
Mizzou (-2.5) vs VU  MIZZ  VU  MIZZ  MIZZ
T enn vs Bama (-15.5)  BAMA  TENN  BAMA  TENN
  ET  AC  ND  TG
TAMU vs Miss (-6)  TAMU  TAMU  TAMU  TAMU
FSU (-6.5) vs GT  FSU  FSU  FSU  FSU
Utah vs USC (-3.5)  UTAH  UTAH  UTAH                   UTAH
Clemson (-7) vs UM  CLEM  UM  CLEM  CLEM
AU vs Ark (-5.5)  ARK  ARK  AU  AU
UK vs Miss St (-11)  MISS  UK  UK  UK
Mizzou (-2.5) vs VU  MIZZ  MIZZ  MIZZ  VU
T enn vs Bama (-15.5)  BAMA  TENN  BAMA  TENN