VOLUME 109 ISSUE 96 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Bruce Jenner’s gender not our business
Read Robyn Smith’s take, pg 7.  
Travelocity Gnome roams Gainesville
He is here for ESPN College Gameday, pg 3. Pork product prices drop after pig 
population recovery
Gainesville hasn’t seen the price shift, pg. 5. 
The UF gymnastics team will look to Rachel Spicer for 
consistency against Arkansas. Read the story on Page 16.
The UF gymnastics team will look to Rachel Spicer for 
63/36
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Carla Vianna / Alligator Staff
Precious Primates
Samantha and Charlotte, white-faced capuchin monkey sisters, sit above their own-er, 61-year-old Kari Bagnall, in the Jungle Friends Primate Sanctuary on Tuesday. Read the story on page 9.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Two people were arrested early 
Thursday for reported insurance 
fraud and are being investigated in possible connection with a ﬁ  re at a Gainesville apartment complex.
The ﬁ  re, which Gainesville Police have ruled an arson, occurred after 11:30 p.m. on Jan. 22 at Southwest Villas, located at 3643 SW 20th Ave.
Police asked that the names and 
pictures of the man, a 22-year-old 
self-described ﬁ  tness trainer, and 
woman, a 21-year-old College of Central Florida student, not be re-leased due to their possible involve-ment in the ﬁ  re.
Both were residents of building 
1200, where the ﬁ  re started. Author-ities ruled the ﬁ  re arson after they found two marine gasoline tanks 
and smelled gasoline.
Three apartments in the build-
ing were evacuated, but no one was 
hurt.“I heard a loud boom sound, 
then glass crashing — I thought it was my window at ﬁ  rst,” said Lily Duan, a 22-year-old UF chemistry and Japanese student, who was in 
the building behind the apartment 
when the ﬁ  re started. “I saw ﬂ  ames through the window and went out-
side to see if I could help.”After two smaller explosions, po-
lice told her to leave her apartment.
A witness told police he saw the 
two residents leaving the building 
around 10:15 p.m., loading a white 
car with bags, according to a police 
report. When asked, the man and woman said they had left to do laun-Fire in Gainesville apartment complex ruled arson
 IT’S FOR AN ACCIDENT THAT
HAPPENED TWO DECADES AGO.
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Six chunks of rock rise from the ground 
on Southeast Depot Avenue near the Rail-
Trail Bike Path, each embedded with the re-
mains of six smashed bicycles involved in a 
fatal accident almost two decades ago.
A few slumped signs stick out of the 
ground and a banner with “Fallen Cyclists 
Memorial” written on it hangs from a fence 
in the background. But with the informa-
tional kiosk gone, the sculptures’ meaning is 
all but lost to those unaware of their history.Bike Florida, a nonproﬁ  t founded to pro-
mote statewide bicycle tourism and safety, 
dedicated its 20th anniversary to restoring 
the Share The Road Memorial. The organi-
zation is working with the Gainesville Com-
munity Redevelopment Agency to enhance 
the sculptures, give them appropriate sig-
nage and install a water fountain for cyclists.
Ron Cunningham, executive director 
at Bike Florida, was riding his bike on the Gainesville-Hawthorne State Trail when he 
ran into Eric Amundson, one of the artists 
who created the sculptures.
“He was concerned that there was some 
detriment there, that the original kiosk that 
was there to tell people about what it was Local biking community to 
restore Depot Ave memorial
STATE
KARLYN MARCY
Alligator Contributing Writer
The state of Florida is saying mooooove 
over for sea cows, which swarmed a state 
spring on Monday. 
Three Sisters Springs, a part of Crystal 
River National Wildlife Refuge, is a popu-lar spot for manatees in the winter. Robert Bonde, a research biologist with the Sirenia 
Project U.S. Geological Survey in Gainesville, 
said the last aerial survey of Crystal River counted 700 manatees — a jump from the 120 there were when he ﬁ  rst joined the or-ganization. 
“We’ve advanced to the point where man-
atees are worth more to us alive than dead because they’re spectacular, and there’s big 
ecotourism in Crystal River and other plac-
es,” Bonde said. “If we do give a little bit of sacriﬁ  ce and protect them, they’re going to 
reward us by being around for future gen-
erations. With a manatee, you can love them to death, and they’ll just love you back. It’s incredible.”
The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conserva-Springs see sea cow surplus, 
remind visitors of regulations  SEE ARSON, PAGE 4
SEE BIKE, PAGE 4
SEE MANATEE, PAGE 4“Manatees are smart, they’re 
curious, they want to investigate their 
environment. They’re like puppy dogs. 
They like to be scratched and (pet).”
Robert Bonde
research biologistNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 96 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
SUNNY
64/35RAIN
72/45SUNNY
73/46SUNNY
70/41SUNNY
63/36
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Bottom-Up Sex Ed!
Registration is now open 
for “Yes Means Yes,” an interdisciplinary, interac-tive, non-credit, five week 
student-facilitated seminar 
that encourages meaning-ful, engaging discussions on consent and sexuality. Make your campus safer, have din-ner on us and increase your sexual satisfaction. The semi-nar meets Thursday evenings March 12 through April 9 
from 6:30 to 8 p.m. 
 
Cupid’s Consent Event
Attend Cupid’s Consent Event on Thursday from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas. There will be relationship-building games and activities. Visit 
all the booths to collect priz-
es, including a free T-shirt. Visitors can also get a picture taken with Cupid. Like the Facebook.com/STRIVEUF page or go to gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive for more infor-mation.
Screening of ‘Girl Rising’
From Academy Award-nominated director Richard Robbins, “Girl Rising” jour-neys around the globe to wit-ness the power of education in changing the world. Viewers get to know nine girls living in the developing world, girls 
who confront challenges and 
overcome odds to pursue their dreams. Prize-winning authors put the girls’ stories into words, and give them a voice. A discussion will fol-low the screening Thursday at 3 p.m. at the International Center.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event be-WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Cupid’s Consent Week
STRIVE and the Office of Victim Services invite stu-dents to Cupid’s Consent Week, dedicated to celebrating 
healthy, consensual relation-
ships. Smooch a Star: Celebrity Kissing/Photo Booth is Friday from 9 p.m. to midnight during GatorNights in the Reitz Union. Ask to kiss the stars and then upload the picture to show sup-port for asking first.
Bridging the Gap Project
The Counseling and Wellness 
Center’s AWARE (Awareness 
Wellness Ambassadors 
Reaching Everyone) will be ta-bling today and Tuesday from 
11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the Plaza of 
the Americas as well as display-
ing images of bridges; often-
times, there is a negative con-notation between suicide and 
bridges. Their intention with 
this event is to reframe that idea 
to bridging the gap between sui-
cide and seeking help/mental health services. They will have 
ambassadors and counselors 
presenting information on the 
myths/facts of suicide so as to 
help better prepare students to note the signs of suicide and to 
intervene, all while providing 
information on local resources.
Keep Hope Alive: A Suicide 
Awareness VigilFor its third year, Keep Hope Alive will bring together musi-cal guests, spoken word artists, and a panel of mental health professionals and advocates to discuss what is an all-too-pervasive and often unspoken issue: suicide. It will be held Wednesday from 6:15 to 8 p.m. in the Pugh Hall Ocora. Concluding with a candle-light vigil on the Plaza of the Americas, this event will pro-vide anyone and everyone an opportunity to honor the lives lost to suicide each year and to continue working to keep hope alive. For more infor-mation, go to facebook.com/events/1589946984550698/.fore 5 p.m. Please model your 
submissions after above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS:
In a story headlined “Local po-lice departments considering body cams for officers” on Feb. 4, Maj. Brad Barber was incor-rectly identified as Sgt. Brad 
Barber.
In a story headlined “5k team 
formed in memoriam for UF student” on Feb. 4, Rachel Coady was named as a student at Santa Fe. She transferred to Flagler.
In a story titled “Bateman team 
launches tiny home campaign-for affordabilty” on Feb. 3,  Home Matters was identified as a company. It is a non-profit coalition. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
FRANCES VERJANO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Known to roam, the Travelocity 
Gnome set his sights on The Gator 
Nation.
The Travelocity Roaming Gnome 
is in town for the Florida Gators vs. 
Kentucky Wildcats basketball game 
on Saturday.
He is following ESPN’s College 
GameDay coverage, broadcasting live from the Stephen C. O’Connell Center, said Keith Nowak, Trav-elocity’s director of communications and brand integration.
“While he’s in Gainesville, he’s 
looking forward to seeing the stat-ues of Albert and Alberta, go get some pizza at Satchel’s and eat at the Swamp,” Nowak said.
Students were encouraged to 
tweet the Roaming Gnome with go-to spots in town. Based on his Twit-ter account, which has about 81,000 followers, he ate tacos at the Swamp Restaurant, viewed the bat houses and Tebow-ed at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
Lucas Dolengowski, a UF tele-
communication senior and presi-dent of the Men’s Basketball Row-dy Reptiles, took a selﬁ  e with the Gnome and said he expects to see him in the student section during Saturday’s game.
“It’s one of those things, cultural things, that a lot of people know or have heard about in commercials, but to see the Gnome in person is a fun experience,” Dolengowski, 22, said.
The Roaming Gnome will travel 
around campus and Midtown with 
a posse of “Gnome Guides” — local 
residents who have engaged with him on social media, Kowak said.
Ben Kurzman, a UF industrial 
engineering senior, said he and a group of friends landed a dinner invitation with the gnome at the Swamp Restaurant on Thursday night.
Kurzman, 21, now a designated 
Gnome Guide, said he wants to show the gnome UF’s vibrant and unique campus.
“I wanted to give him a taste of 
something uniquely Gainesville — something you don’t ﬁ  nd else-where,” he said.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
IAN COHEN
Alligator Staff Writer icohen@alligator.org
Secondhand smoke exposure in the U.S. dropped by more than 
half from 1999 to 2012, according to a report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Jane Emmeree, co-chair of the UF Tobacco-Free Task Force, said 
UF policies have directly contributed to the reduction of second-
hand smoke in Gainesville, speciﬁ  cally when the school began its 
smoke-free campus policy in July of 2010.
“I used to work in the inﬁ  rmary building, and when I would 
walk around the campus I would always have smoke in my face,” she said. “People just walked with cigarettes, and it’s so rare now.”
Although cigarettes are becoming less common, the side effects 
of smoke are just as deadly.
“It affects your whole body, is what it boils down to,” said 
Kathy Nichols, associate director of the UF Area Health Education 
Centers. “There’s various debates about whether it’s 4,000 or 7,000 
chemicals that you can ﬁ  nd in secondhand smoke. But what’s not debatable is that we know it causes disease and death.”
Nichols added that many people are unfamiliar with thirdhand 
smoke, which comes from matter left over after a cigarette has been extinguished.
Brianna Kane, a 21-year-old UF psychology senior, said her par-
ents spared her from the harmful toxins found in second and third-hand smoke by smoking outside after Kane went to bed.
“I think when they grew up, smoking was just a common norm, 
and they never grew out of that. But when my brother and I were born, I don’t think they wanted that for us,” Kane said. “They tried to prevent us from being affected by it.”Secondhand smoke 
down to the butt, CDC report suggests
Gnome - Courtesy to the Alligator
The Roaming Gnome stands in front of the French Fries next to Marston Science Library around noon 
Thursday. The Gnome is in Gainesville while on tour with ESPN’s College Gameday, which will air from the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Saturday.
LOCALTravelocity Gnome roams Gainesville
“It’s one of those things, 
cultural things, that a lot of 
people know or have heard 
about in commercials, but 
to see the Gnome in person 
is a fun experience.”
Lucas Dolengowski
UF telecommunication senior
1990-2000   2001-2002   2003-2004   2005-2006   2007-2008   2009-2010   2011-2012100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
2010
0
Non-Hispanic black children Non-Hispanic white children
Mexican-American childrenSource: National Health and Nutrition 
Examination Survey Data 1999-2012.Exposure to secondhand smoke differs 
among children ages 3-11 by race/ethnicity% with serum cotinine* 0.05-10 ng/mL4, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
A group of UF students from Steve Johnson’s Wildlife of Florida class pet a manatee at 
Three Sisters Springs on Crystal River on Jan. 23. Students learned firsthand that some manatees approach humans in order to be scratched and rubbed.
Carla Vianna / Alligator Staff
One of the six sculptures with bicycle remains that line Depot Avenue as seen on Wednesday afternoon. The sculptures were made in remembrance of a 1996 collision that left two dead.
Bike Florida raised $13,000 
through raffles, donations
had been dismantled,” Cunningham said. 
“There was really no way for anyone to 
know what those sculptures were doing 
there.”
The sculptures honor six cyclists who 
were riding from Gainesville to St. Augus-tine when a distracted driver struck them 
in 1996. Two cyclists, Margaret Raynal and 
Doug Hill, did not survive. The other four, 
Lauri Triulzi, Jessica Green, Eric Finnan 
and Charles Hinson, were severely in-
jured.
The cyclists were well-known through-
out the Florida cycling community, and 
the incident evoked a powerful reaction 
from the public.
“It was a real process for the Gainesville 
cycling community to construct those and 
deal with their grieving and sadness and anger,” said Linda Crider, a Bike Florida founder and friend of Raynal.
The accident led to positive efforts in 
the biking community, Cunningham said, including the reinstatement of the Florida 
Bicycle Association, an advocate for cy-
clists’ rights, and a campaign for Share The 
Road specialty license plates.
Through raffles, silent auctions, a direct 
mail campaign, the annual Share The Road 
celebration and a $5,000 donation from its 
board of directors, Bike Florida was able to 
reach its $13,000 goal, Cunningham said.
The project will go hand-in-hand with 
the Gainesville CRA’s multimillion-dollar redevelopment project for the surround-
ing area known as Depot Park. Comple-
tion is projected for 2016, Cunningham 
said.
“The story needs to be told because it’s 
personal, but it’s also far-reaching,” said 
Diane Gilreath, Gainesville CRA manager. 
The goal, she said, is to respark that 
story in the community.BIKE , from page 1
Fish and Wildlife Commission 
designates manatee safe havens
tion Commission regulates the minimum 
flows of springs, access for manatees to the springs and boat speed limits. They 
also designate safe havens for the ani-
mals, said Scott Calleson, a biological sci-entist with the commission.
In order to rent a boat or swim in the 
water at Crystal River, visitors are re-quired to watch a “Manatee Manners” video to know the rules that must be followed when interacting with the sea cows.
“Manatees are smart, they’re curious, 
they want to investigate their environ-ment. They’re like puppy dogs. They like to be scratched and (pet),” Bonde said. 
“It’s not against the law to touch mana-
tees, but it is against the law to change their behavior and harass them.”
Bonde and other biologists that work 
on the U.S. Geological Survey’s Sirenia Project conduct health assessments on manatees in Crystal River to see what the manatee population looks like as a whole.
But manatee care isn’t just for state of-
ficials. The Wildlife Society at UF helps assess the sea cows.
The organization helps monitor 
breathing as manatees are taken out of nets, scanned for chips or tags and moved to another beach to conduct more health assessments, wrote co-Vice President Elizabeth Sanchez in an email. 
“We were able to help or observe as 
they drew blood, tagged them, weighed them, and did a number of other assess-ments,” she said. 
The next manatee health assessment 
will take place Feb. 18 and 19 in Crystal River.
“They live in the water, and it’s almost 
like they live on another planet,” Bonde 
said. “They’re two different worlds, but 
it’s the same planet…”MANATEE , from page 1dry and returned about an hour after the 
fire was put out. They refused to let police look in the car, which was filled with per-sonal items, according to the report.
The woman — the only resident listed on 
the apartment’s lease — filed renter’s insur-ance on Jan. 11. After filing for an insurance claim on Jan. 23, she was told by an insur-ance adjuster that she could only claim for personal items within the apartment that were lost in a fire, according to the report.
The woman reported losing $58,512 
worth of items, including two televisions, a Wii U, a Macbook Pro, 420 articles of 
clothing, 73 pairs of shoes and jewelry, ac-
cording to the report. Several of the listed items were later recovered from her car in good condition. A pawn slip, signed by the woman for one of the listed items, was also found.
The man told police one of the TVs be-
longed to him and that he had spoken with the woman about getting renter’s insurance, according to the report. He also helped her compile the list of lost items.
Police are offering up to $5,000 for any 
information, according to a GPD press re-lease.
“Arson cases are difficult investigations 
since a lot of the forensic evidence is usually incinerated during the fire,” GPD spokes-man Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
Both are being held at Alachua County 
Jail on charges of attempted grand theft and filing a false insurance claim. The woman is 
being held in lieu of a $175,000 bond while 
the man, also charged with possession of a controlled drug, possession of drug para-phernalia and violating probation, is being held in lieu of a $210,000 bond.FIRE , from page 1Two also investigated for fraud
 IT IS WORTH $5,000.
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
Two Santa Fe College professors 
recently received a $5,000 grant from 
Google for a new computer program-ming course aimed at making computer science interesting and inclusive to more 
students.
The class, called Computer Concepts, 
was created by information technol-
ogy and math associate professor Eliza-beth Drake and will be offered starting this Fall. The class will teach students 
computer technology basics and will in-
troduce them to the large number of IT fields in the industry, according to an early copy of the syllabus.
IT professor Cheryl Calhoun pitched the program to the Google CS Engage-ment Small Awards Program, which awards colleges for creating engaging computer science introduction programs for students.
Calhoun said she hopes the program 
will make CS courses more “engaging, 
interesting and  inclusive for a diverse 
student population.”
Nate Roslosky, a Santa Fe computer 
programming and engineering sopho-more, said he thinks courses like these are important so students can see all their options.
“I think it’s really interesting that this 
will be taught here because this is what a 
lot of the people need to go through,” Ro-
slosky, 20, said, “a kind of cursory course to see what they want to do because there are so many different offshoots you can do from this.”SFC receives Google grant 
for new computer courseCOURTNEY KAISER
Alligator Contributing Writer
The wait is almost over for the 
chicken restaurant opening at the in-
tersection of West University Avenue and 34th Street.
PDQ, which stands for People 
Dedicated to Quality, will have its grand opening Sunday at 10:30 a.m., bringing its casual-style fast food to the Gainesville market.
The restaurant, partially financed 
by Tim Tebow, offers sit-down, drive-thru, takeout and catering and is even looking into creating a delivery ser-vice, said Jeff Kamis, chief marketing and public relations officer at PDQ.“Our focus is on doing things the 
right way and from a freshness stand-point,” Kamis said. “Everything is made fresh on site.”
The Tampa-based restaurant will 
debut its newest spot with family-friendly activities, which in the past have included balloon artists and face painting. 
PDQ also plans to kick off its 
“shake break” special that allows customers to purchase hand-spun milkshakes every day from 3 to 5 p.m. for half the normal price, Kamis said.
Prices range from a a $5.99 chick-
en Caesar Salad to a $6.99 four-piece chicken tender meal.Some UF students plan to visit the 
restaurant.
“There isn’t a PDQ anywhere near 
Merritt Island, where I’m from, and the only time I’ve been was when I stayed with a friend in Tampa for Gasparilla,” said Melanie DiLoreto, a 20-year-old UF nursing sophomore. “We all love the food and will defi-nitely go all the time.”
As far as Tebow making an ap-
pearance on the opening day, Kamis said he is unsure. 
“He’s been to our restaurants be-
fore, and he’s been involved in a lot of community missions especially up in Jacksonville,” he said. “But no word at this point. You never know.”FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
David Farrell, a 48-year-old butcher at Ward’s Supermarket, displays a steak to a customer on Tues-day afternoon.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
The PDQ store front, as seen from University Avenue on Tuesday afternoon. PDQ, which stands for People Dedicated to Quality, will have its grand opening Sunday at 10:30 a.m.
BUSINESSSunday marks end of PDQ chicken wait GAINESVILLE BUTCHERS HAVEN’T SEEN THE PRICE DROP YET.
CONOR SOPER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bacon prices are falling across 
the U.S., but they have yet to be 
chopped in Gainesville.
According to the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, the price of 
pork is dropping following the por-
cine epidemic diarrhea virus that killed millions of pigs. After the pig population recovered, the increase in pork led to the drop in prices. So far, Gainesville hasn’t seen the shift.
“It was catastrophic a year ago, 
absolutely catastrophic,” said Chad Carr, associate professor in the UF 
Department of Animal Sciences.
As for the price of pork, Carr 
chalks it up to the laws of supply 
and demand.
“When we have a dip in supply 
and demand stays constant, you’re going to have an increase in cost,” he said.
Carr said pork prices are prob-
ably back to about where they were in January 2014.The recent slump in prices is 
nothing new to Heavenly Ham general manager Kenny Kingswell, however.
“I have yet to see any kind of 
market change in pork price because I haven’t ordered anything in well 
over a month.” Kingswell said.
Heavenly Ham raised its prices 
in August, but Kingswell said he 
won’t know if the price of pork has decreased per pound until the next order comes in.
There are other reasons besides 
the virus to explain the changing price of pork.
Charles Moss, a professor in the 
UF Department of Food and Re-source Economics, wrote in an email the reason for changes in pork prices in general is tied to the demand for corn.
The cost of corn affects meat be-
cause feed is about 60 percent the cost of raising livestock, Moss said. 
“So the rising corn price put up-
ward pressure on meat prices, par-ticularly pork,” he said.
Bryan Ward, meat manager at 
Ward’s Supermarket, also hasn’t seen a dip in prices. 
“It may take some time,” he 
said. “Hopefully we’ll see some changes.”Pork product prices drop after pig population recovery
EMILY CARDINALI
Alligator Staff Writer
ecardinali@alligator.org
A local homeless shel-
ter’s crowdfunding cam-paign is about to end and is a little over half way to the goal.
With three days left on its 
two-month Indiegogo cam-paign, Grace Marketplace has raised $26,226 out of the $50,000 goal as of press time. All the money will go toward resources for the shelter, from providing food in its cafeteria to upkeep and 
security of the facility.
Jon DeCarmine, director 
of operations for the Ala-
chua County Coalition for the Homeless and Hungry, said the original budget for the shelter was written eight years ago for a smaller facility and does not sup-
port the shelter’s current 
20,000-square-foot location. Since Grace opened in May, it has provided about 35,000 meals and 8,000 nights of shelter for its residents, and it plans to continue expand-ing services. This funding will help get Grace off the 
ground so it can apply for 
grants later on, he said. 
Mark Sexton, the Com-
munications and Legislative Affairs director for Alachua County and a campaign do-nor, said he encourages peo-ple to donate to the shelter. “There are a lot of people 
that are one paycheck away from having issues them-selves,” he said. “I think the Indiegogo campaign is a really good way for a lot 
of people to be productive 
about this issue even if you can only contribute a little.”
Grace has a flexible fund-
ing campaign, which means it does not have to meet its goal to receive the money.
For now, DeCarmine 
said the shelter needs about 
$560,000 a year to provide 
the basic necessities. For this fiscal year, the shelter was allocated $308,000 by both the city and the county. In December, the Gainesville City Commission and the Alachua County Commis-sion each approved $125,840  
to go toward funding Grace 
through September, the end of the fiscal year. The money was taken from mainte-nance and moved to opera-tional funds.
“For a long time, we 
thought the key to fundrais-ing was to find a $1 million 
donor,” DeCarmine said. 
“Through the Indiegogo, we found that there were so many other people who were willing to give what they could.”
Those who want to donate 
to the campaign can go to in-
diegogo.com/projects/grace-marketplace.Grace Marketplace  
Indiegogo endingReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Guess what? We aren’t going to complain about the weath-
er this week. But how in the world did it get to be midterm 
time? Our minds are blown. And we have a week left to scrape together Valentine’s Day plans, so here’s your we’re- all-kinds-of-stressed edition of... 
Darts & Laurels
Last December, a Jordanian ﬁ  ghter pilot, Muath al-Kasas-beh, crashed in Syria and was captured by Islamic State ﬁ  ghters. For a few months, he was one of the many high-
proﬁ  le hostages held by the group. Islamic State released a vid-
eo of his execution Tuesday, though he is thought to have been 
killed in early January. This isn’t the ﬁ  rst time Islamic State has released execution videos, but this one was particularly graphic — al-Kasasbeh was locked in a cage, doused in lighter 
ﬂ  uid and burned alive. Upon its release, the video made world 
headlines instantaneously. An overwhelming majority of news 
outlets refused to display it in full, though; partly out of respect for al-Kasasbeh and partly to avoid doing precisely what the Islamic State group intended. 
There’s one notable exception: Fox News, who elected to 
air it in full as well as post it online. At its basest level, this decision is both tasteless and irresponsible. Terrorism’s entire method is to commit acts of outrageous brutality in order to get attention, achieving a political end in the process. Hence 
this more sickening, shocking murder method. Fox is doing 
the Islamic State’s work for them. Indeed, Islamic State-linked 
Twitter accounts are sharing the link Fox posted because it isn’t displayed by any other Western media outlet. What’s worse: Fox did this out of self-interest. Correspondent Bret Baier said 
they posted it “to bring you the reality of Islamic terrorism and 
to label it as such.” I.e., to score points in a pathetic, one-sided 
competition of terminology with the Obama administration. So we’re giving a spreading-terrorist-propaganda-to-prove-a-dumb-point DART to Fox News. 
In another example of something horrible that happened 
so far this year, a plane crashed shortly after taking off from Taipei. In a weird stroke of chance, a dashboard camera caught footage of the plane as it grazed a highway overpass, giving us an image every bit as surreal as it is horrifying. Although at least 32 people died in the crash, the crash would have certain-ly killed many more if it weren’t for the heroic actions of the crew and the pilot, Liao Chien-tsung, who died in the crash. 
As captured on video, the crew managed to maneuver the 
plane around the dense Taipei skyline, avoiding skyscrapers and the people living and working in them. It’s evident they intended to and succeeded in landing the plane in the Keelung River, sparing the lives of untold dozens on the ground and lessening the impact on the plane itself. Liao Chien-tsung’s ac-
tions saved the lives of dozens, if not scores of people in Tai-
pei. He has already been held up as a hero by Taipei’s mayor 
and many others worldwide, and we think he deserves that distinction. A LAUREL to Liao Chien-tsung and the crew of TransAsia Airways Flight 235. Our hearts are with them, all of 
the deceased and their families. 
That wraps up this week’s heavy edition of Darts and Lau-
rels. Have a wonderful weekend.
61 TOTAL VOTES56% YES
44% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgThursday’s question: Are you looking 
forward to Harper Lee’s new book?Today’s question: Manatees or monkeys?
Don’t kick out those semi-welcome guests
On “Curb Your Enthusiasm,” comedian J.B. Smoove 
plays Leon Black, the brother of Loretta Black, a woman who ends up moving in with Larry David 
in Los Angeles after being displaced from New Orleans by a hurricane. Despite already having a home in L.A. — not to 
mention not even being formally invited into Larry’s house 
— Leon moves in, and quickly becomes a key player in Lar-ry’s antics. When Loretta ﬁ  nally moves out, Larry gestures to Leon, “I guess this means you’ll be…” obviously meaning to ask him to leave as well. When Leon quickly replies that he’ll be “Going upstairs to eat this f****** Chinese food,” pausing to take a sip of soda, “in my f****** room,” Larry can’t even muster the energy to debate the point.
Leon is the textbook deﬁ  nition of what I’ve come to call 
the “semi-welcome guest.” A person who, although you don’t necessarily want them in your home, is entertaining enough that you’re willing to put aside your reservations about his or her presence for what you hope will be a brief period of time. Leon is profane, selﬁ  sh and obnoxious. He’s also hilarious and, more often than not, unexpectedly a boon to Larry.
As luck would have it, I ended up interlocked with semi-
welcome guests of my own last weekend. When a buddy of 
mine in Jacksonville asked if he and an unspeciﬁ  ed number 
of his friends could stay with me for a night while they were in town for a concert — one that I had not planned on attend-ing — I had a few concerns.
For one: He, as well as his posse, are punks. I’m not using 
that word in a condescending sense either. The ﬁ  rst time we hung out, he was selling records and promoting his self-pub-lished zine at an abandoned warehouse for an impromptu punk show. He was also the ﬁ  rst person I ever moshed with. 
Second, having witnessed it ﬁ  rsthand, I know the level 
of belligerence and destruction he’s capable of when sauced. The idea of having a whole horde of people like him in my house made my blood run cold. 
Third, and perhaps a tad bit pejoratively, I live with fra-
ternity dudes. Punks and fraternity dudes are like Ann Coul-ter and critical thinking — they just don’t go together.
Against my better judgment and because I love him, I agreed to let him and his homies crash at my place. When I asked him how many people would be staying, the following text conver-sation ensued. Names are changed 
to protect the innocent. 
“How many people/who”
“Just like 3. Derek, Jack, maybe 
this chick Alexis. And Bri. Rob-bie.” 
“That’s 5. 6 total, actually.” “Yeah.”  “Jesus.”Two cars and seven punks later, they arrived. Putting 
aside my irritation and instead honing in on my excitement, I guided them in a manner beﬁ  t of a drunken Moses to the 
concert — Parquet Courts, a garage-rock outﬁ  t — and the 
night was underway.
Not all of the conversations or capers that ensued are ﬁ  t 
for publication. Needless to say, we ended up losing a few along the way. One of my distinguished guests was thrown out after attempting to punch a bouncer in the face. Later, while taking a drag of a cigarette — whatever — outside be-tween opening acts, I caught one of my visitors, who we’ll re-fer to as Robbie, asking what he had done wrong while being 
escorted out of the venue by police. I would later learn that 
he’d attempted to steal a box of cassettes from the merchan-dise table. Robbie went on to drive to Orlando that night, leaving behind those he’d brought in the ﬁ  rst place. In true Shakespearean fashion it would end up being the cassette tapes that robbed him, rather than the other way around. To borrow a phrase from David Spade’s classic “Dickie Roberts: Former Child Star,” the concert itself was “nucking futs.”
What did I learn from this experience? Always let semi-
welcome visitors into your home. Sure, it may not be the most convenient experience, and they may give you a head-ache, but odds are they’ll show you a good time. Addition-ally, any concerns you may have about their behavior will often be, ironically enough, solved by their own hijinks. Nine out of 10, would do again.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science junior. His column ap-
pears on Fridays.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.org FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Response to “SG has room for improve-
ment”
Earlier this week in the column titled “SG 
has room for improvement,” writer Christo-
pher Wilde attempted to make the case that 
Student Government and Swamp Party are 
not visible to students because the Swamp Party Facebook page went 114 days without posting an update. 
What Wilde might not know, however, is 
that political parties are barred from such ac-tivity according to the Election Campaign Act, or chapter 760 of the 700 codes, which lists the rules and regulations political parties must 
follow throughout the election cycle. These 
codes explicitly prohibit the publication of any promotional content immediately after polls close, as the political parties cease to exist as 
registered student organizations once the elec-
tion cycle has ended. The codes are designed so all student leaders, regardless of the party they ran with, will serve the student body on behalf of SG. 
Wilde also missed the mark on his criticism 
of the SG YouTube account. While he stated there has only been one video posted in the past two years, the account UF SG has posted 
21 times in the past year alone. Many of these 
videos are the weekly edition of SG TV, which thousands of students have viewed since its creation. If Wilde, or any reader for that matter, is confused as to what SG has accom-plished this past year, SG TV is an informative 
resource and great place to start. 
Visibility and transparency are top priori-
ties for SG, which have led to dozens of pro-
gramming events like the State of the Campus address, which drew over 600 students; town 
hall forums, which have been held by several 
different college and residence hall Senators; tabling events, which happen every week as part of Senate constituency; and Lunch on 
the Lawn, which happens at least once each 
month. There are SG staff members whose sole responsibility is to monitor our online media to ensure we are reaching as many students as possible. On top of the weekly 
SG email newsletter and Facebook and Twit-
ter pages with a combined following of over 15,000 people, we are always looking for new ways to engage students.
Wilde put it best when he said, “representa-
tives are responsible for being visible and com-municative.” On that same note, journalists are responsible for developing informed opinions and students are responsible for playing an ac-
tive role in their Student Government. 
While we were disheartened by many of 
the uninformed remarks made by Wilde, we 
would love to hear any new ideas he or the student body may have to further increase our interaction with our constituents. Comments and suggestions can be sent to externalaf-
fairs@sg.uﬂ  .edu.
Blake D. Murphy
Director of External Affairs
 Editor’s Note: YouTube shows three sepa-
rate Student Government channels. One has 21 videos, the second has one video and the third has three videos. Columnist Christopher Wilde was referring to the third in his column. None of the three channels are veriﬁ  ed or linked to each other.
Swamp Party pleased with Senate slate
My name is Ricky Salabarria, and I current-
ly serve as the Swamp Party spokesman. I am 
very excited to announce that our party’s slate 
for the Spring 2015 Student Government Elec-
tions has been released. After three days of qualifying, slating and interviewing, Swamp Party is conﬁ  dent that we have selected the 50 
most qualiﬁ  ed and capable students to serve 
in the Student Senate and bring our university the experience it deserves. 
This year, 617 of the 801 students that slated 
at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom slated with 
Swamp Party. We truly appreciate the con-
tinued dedication students show to our party and its values by slating with us. Every year, the bar is continually raised as we interview more and more qualiﬁ  ed students. We heard 
a vast amount of excellent ideas for a variety 
of different colleges from those who came to slate. After a rigorous decision-making pro-cess, we decided on the 50 candidates we felt best aligned with our party’s ideals and who 
were best suited for each seat. 
Having to decide on only 50 students is a 
very difﬁ  cult process, especially at a universi-
ty like ours that fosters an incredibly competi-
tive environment. The Swamp Party Execu-
tive Board prides itself on success and believes that we are presenting the most qualiﬁ  ed slate we have ever released. 
The 50 students who were chosen to run 
with Swamp Party ﬁ  t as a perfect compli-ment to our powerful, hardworking executive ticket. As always, we held to our tradition of selecting experienced and determined leaders 
to represent our student body. 
Student Government plays an integral role 
in providing for students and improving life 
both inside and outside of the classroom. We are proud to announce our full, qualiﬁ  ed Sen-
ate slate for the Spring 2015 elections.
The experience you deserve,
Ricky Salabarria 
Swamp Party spokesmanLetters to the Editor
I was at the grocery store on Tuesday 
waiting to pay for my buy-one-get-one Cheez-Its when some magazine 
headlines caught my eye. The cash reg-ister line was a little long, so I had some 
time to look around at the multiple 
magazines covering the same subject: Bruce Jenner.
Jenner has been all over the news 
lately. All you have to do is Google “Bruce Jenner” and the results that pop up are all along the same line: “Bruce Jenner’s Transition,” “Bruce Jenner Turning Into A Woman?” ”Bruce Jenner Sex Change Rumors.”
Oh my God! This is crazy! He’s doing what? This 
is truly the most earth-shattering and juicy news of all time. Except that … it’s really not.
First off, Jenner has not ofﬁ  cially come out as 
transgender yet. Until he does so, no matter how many “close family friends” report to news outlets, everything is speculation and rumor. Second, and most importantly, if and when he does announce that he is transgender, it really isn’t any of our busi-
ness.
A Slate author, Parker Marie Molloy, put it well 
when she wrote that “coming out as trans is such 
an intensely personal, painful, and challenging life event, and when you whisper about someone’s gender identity, you’re turning their life — right down to the core of their existence — into a joke, into gossip.”
If you’re interested in Jenner’s supposed transi-
tion because you’ve never been exposed to the ‘T’ in LGBT, and you’re using this as a branching-off point to learn about the transgender community: great. If you’re following the stories because you’re just curious and willing to follow any scandal: stop.
Someone’s gender identity isn’t a scandal. This 
isn’t gossip. This is someone’s life. Transgender in-dividuals already face a lot of harassment and dis-crimination. They don’t need you prying into their 
personal lives or asking offensive and intrusive 
questions.
For example, people seem to place too much im-
portance on the state of a trans individual’s geni-tals. When Katie Couric interviewed Laverne Cox, a transgender woman and “Orange is the New Black” actress, she referred to previous questions about surgery and the actual transition. Cox told Couric that, “The preoccupation with transition and surgery objectiﬁ  es trans people. And then we don’t get to really deal with the real lived experiences.”
So what you see about Bruce Jen-
ner’s supposed transition in the maga-zines is just that — supposed. If you’re worried about how this will affect “Keeping Up With The Kardashians,” or if this means Jenner will get surgery 
or start wearing dresses or date men, you’re worry-ing about the wrong things.
Rates of attempted suicide are higher in the 
transgender community compared with the general 
population. 
Unemployment rates are also doubled, plus 
trans individuals face discrimination and harass-
ment more often in the workplace. In her interview, Cox pointed out that “the homicide rate is highest among trans women.”
These are the things that we should be worry-
ing about. The only reason why you should want to know about the state of someone’s genitals, or 
their sexuality, or how they have sex, is if you’re 
in a sexual relationship with them. Are you having sex with Bruce Jenner? No? Right.
In that case, focus on more important things like 
making spaces safer and more inclusive for trans individuals. If you see someone being an offensive jerk to somebody else for their gender expression or how they present themselves, call them out. Let people use public bathrooms in peace. Respect 
someone’s preferred pronouns — he, she, they or 
whatever they might use.
Most importantly, educate yourself through the 
stories and accounts of actual trans individuals. These are some good suggestions to get you start-ed, but I’m a cisgender female — I was designated female at birth, and I identify with the female gen-der now — so my opinions on the matter are way less important than those who actually identify as 
transgender.
Listen to what they say about the oppression and 
discrimination they face and adjust your actions to 
make our society more comfortable and welcome. And in the meantime, give Bruce Jenner a break, and ﬁ  nd something new to gossip about.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Fridays.Bruce Jenner’s gender not our businessColumn
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.orgLast year, I overheard a conversation between two men at the gym. “Yeah, if I didn’t have class I’d lift for two hours in the morning, do cardio at lunch and then do two hours of core at 
night.” I turned around, curious to see what kind of person would ever want to do that. What I saw didn’t seem to be a person at all, 
so much as a rippling ball of hypervascularized muscle. His arms 
were so huge that they hung limply like a T. rex’s, and his legs seemed to buckle under his frame. If I didn’t have my glasses on, I probably would have mistaken him for The Thing.
Guys like this are becoming an ever-
increasing phenomenon, both on cam-pus and in the rest of the country. Work-out freaks have always existed, but what I ﬁ  nd disturbing is that they now take 
the form of regular people.
Don’t get me wrong, I’m all for staying ﬁ  t, but I refuse to believe 
that transforming your body into one giant bicep is in any way 
healthy. That’s just male body-obsession masquerading as ﬁ  tness. At its worst, body-obsession drives guys to abuse anabolic steroids. I once thought the only people who did that were athletes, but a survey published in 2006 by the U.S. National Library of Medicine found  78.4% of steroid users were non-athletes; I can only imagine that ﬁ  gure has grown since.
However, a much subtler version of this obsession seems to pos-
sess increasing numbers of guys. Friends of mine who I once con-sidered rational people are now downing heaps of protein supple-ments, posting mirror selﬁ  es and constantly talking about “reps.” While not as physically taxing as steroid abuse, it’s a clear indica-tion of body-image problems that plague men in our generation.
Body-image problems certainly aren’t news for women; cosmet-
ic surgery and eating disorders have long comprised the pressure women feel to conform to an increasingly ridiculous set of physi-
cal standards. While female body-image problems are still an issue, 
they have at least been acknowledged for what they are: psycho-logical feelings of body inadequacy. What’s troubling about male body-image problems is that they often come disguised as health and ﬁ  tness goals, when in reality they stem from similar feelings of inadequacy.
I believe these problems are symptoms of the greater vanity and 
self-esteem issues our whole generation seems to struggle with, and I’ll be the ﬁ  rst to admit I’ve fallen victim to them too. I’ve had 
months where I lived off nothing but salad and done hundreds of 
crunches. I still count calories with a manic intensity I’m not proud of. In an era where likes on Instagram function as validating cur-rency, we are trained to constantly assess our physical appearance, how much fun we seem to be having and how we measure up to peers. It’s a strange cocktail of narcissism and self-loathing facili-tated by modern communication, and neither sex is immune.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics junior. His column appears on 
Fridays.The growing problem 
of male body imageColumn
Namwan Leavell
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015
Isis Ramirez / Alligator
Crookston: Live
Joe Crookston, an American artist, writer and folk singer, performs at the Squitieri Studio Theatre in the 
west wing of the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Thursday night.
 THE ORGANIZATION WILL AWARD A SCHOLARSHP AS WELL. 
ALI ECKERLE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Instead of hosting a forum 
or a speaker, the UF Interfrater-
nity Council is celebrating Black History Month with a basketball game.
The inaugural Steve Williams 
Basketball Tournament will take place from noon to 4 p.m. on Feb. 14 at the Broward Outdoor Rec-reational Complex in honor of Steve Williams, UF’s first black basketball player. 
Tristan Ahlquist, director of 
public relations for the IFC, said anyone can sign up for the tour-
nament, regardless of affiliation 
with the council.
“We saw an opportunity to 
show diversity within the IFC chapters as well as the University of Florida, and we wanted to of-fer a program that happens an-nually that really heightens those things and brings the community together,” Ahlquist said.
Ahlquist said a scholarship 
fund will be created and award-ed to a chapter-nominated black member of one of the IFC frater-nities to fund academic pursuits. The registration fee is $25 per 
team. The scholarship winner 
will be announced in the weeks following the tournament. 
The scholarship amount is cur-
rently unknown and will depend on how many teams register and how much money comes in from sponsors. 
Each team must have at least three players and two alternates. Interested participants can sign up at the IFC’s table today as well as Feb. 12 and 13 on Turlington Plaza, or by emailing Ahlquist at ahlquistt@ufl.edu.
James Predelus, the first vice 
president of the Gator chapter of the NAACP and a UF marketing junior, said he thinks the tourna-
ment is an innovative and active 
way to get students involved in Black History Month. 
“The majority of events are 
usually forums or discussions,” Predelus, 21, said, “so a basket-ball game or a tournament is a cool way to get people active and aware about what’s going on.”
IFC hosts basketball tournament for Black History Month
SHALLA GALANOS
Alligator Contributing Writer
The fourth annual Law and 
Justice Youth Conference will take place Saturday at the UF Levin College of Law.
The conference is for at-risk 
middle school students from the Gainesville and Ocala ar-eas. The conference focuses on teaching at-risk youth about their rights and responsibilities in the community. The theme for the conference is Commu-nity Works.
“When we come together as 
a community, and we put our minds together, and we put our hearts together, the community as a whole will work,” said Me-shon Rawls, a UF master legal skills professor.
AuBroncee Martin, an as-
sistant public defender, said he wants to help the students develop their critical thinking skills so they can better express themselves. 
This year’s motivational 
speaker will be Joe Johnson, a former college athlete who is now pursuing a Ph.D. in coun-selor education at UF.
After the motivational 
speech, lawyers, judges and law students are put into groups to give their presenta-
tions and conduct workshops 
for the students.
“We want them walking 
away understanding that they play a role in the community,” Rawls said.UF law school to host 
youth conference
CAMPUS
ALI ECKERLE
Alligator Contributing Writer
The 100 fastest-growing companies 
owned, operated or led by UF alumni will be 
honored at the first Gator100 Awards Gala today.
The companies were ultimately ranked 
by rate of growth and revenue as well as 
sustained growth over three years by ac-
counting firm Ernst & Young, said Michael 
Morris, academic director of the Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation.
The winners will be announced to the public this afternoon. 
After a complimentary breakfast at 8:30 
a.m. today, the gala will transition into open-to-the-public breakout sessions from 10 to 11:30 a.m. with an awards lunch following at noon in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. 
Nola Miyasaki, executive director of out-
reach and incubation programs at the Cen-ter for Entrepreneurship and Innovation, said 14 of UF’s colleges are represented in Gator100, with the highest concentrations from the Heavener School of Business, the Levin College of Law and the College of En-gineering.Eight of the companies on the list are 
based in Alachua County.
“I think our objective is to really celebrate 
entrepreneurship across the University of Florida campus,” Miyasaki said.Morris said he hopes this will become an 
annual event.
“There are aspects of this that would ap-
peal to any student, any faculty member, any member of the staff on the UF campus,” Morris said. 
Students are welcome to attend the 
breakout sessions.
“It would kind of be a second career 
showcase,” said 21-year-old UF business management junior Daniela Faria. “It’s re-ally cool that people that have graduated from UF are coming back and sharing their knowledge.”UF to honor alumni business successes at Gator100 today
 THE SPEAKER FOUNDED 
TRENDY ENTERTAINMENT.
AARON ALBRIGHT
Alligator Contributing Writer
What began as a lecture on 
ethics in the tech industry by a 
Gainesville entrepreneur quickly diverted into discussions ranging from video game addiction to su-
per geniuses.Augi Lye, chairman and 
founder of Trendy Entertainment 
— a game-development studio — spoke about his experiences in technology and the video game industry to a crowd of about 15 on Thursday afternoon at the UF Col-lege of Engineering.
But shortly after he began, the 
topics veered in several direc-
tions.
Lye, a 2006 UF electrical and 
computer engineering alumnus, founded and invested in a num-ber of startups in Gainesville, such 
as Trendy and Hacker House. He began his presentation describ-ing technology industry ethics as varying degrees of gray, such as dealing with racially stereotyped character designs from a French artist.
From there, the lecture turned 
into a roundtable discussion. Some members of the audience seemed unfamiliar with the video game industry and were eager to 
ask questions.
Lye answered them in an up-
beat tone, appearing to enjoy the 
audience’s interest.
“Do we want to foster good 
communities, or just let people do what they want?” Lye asked about building a healthy custom-er base for a game.
The audience, made up of 
mostly middle-aged men, asked Lye if he would compare video game addiction to drug addiction, 
briefly changing the direction of 
the event. Lye still answered, dis-agreeing with the statement.  
UF computer engineering se-
nior Nick Evans, 21, said although he thought the talk seemed unfo-cused, he thinks Lye’s unortho-dox approach to business has cre-ated success.
“Personally, I think Augi 
is a pretty influential guy in Gainesville,” Evans said.
Talk by UF alumnus turns into discussion on video games, ethics“I think our objective is to really 
celebrate entrepreneurship across 
the University of Florida campus.”
Nola Miyasaki
Executive director of outreach and incubation 
programs at the Center for Entrepreneurship and 
Innovation“We saw an opportunity 
to show diversity within the 
IFC chapters as well as the 
University of Florida, and we 
wanted to offer a program 
that happens annually 
that really heightens those 
things and brings the 
community together.”
Tristan Ahlquist
IFC director of public relationsCARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Although the surrounding mon-
key walkways hang no more than 5 
feet above the ground, Kari Bagnall 
doesn’t have to duck. Mud splatters 
from her rain boots as she weaves her way through a maze of cages, trees and hanging metal walkways.
Her stride is effortless. She 
knows this caged maze better than anyone else. When Bagnall finds the cage she’s looking for, she reaches through the metal bearings and 
playfully tugs on a white-faced 
monkey’s black foot.
Bagnall, 61, says she’s not good 
at baby talk, but you should see her 
with the monkeys.
“I got your foot ... Hi, Sam. Hiiii, 
Sammy,” she coos one day in late 
January. “Hmmm, that’s my good girl. I’ll tickle you! How’s that crazy 
monkey, huh? How’s that crazy 
girl? I love you. You’re my favorite.”
Samantha and her sister Char-
lotte live in a spacious habitat at 
Jungle Friends Primate Sanctuary 
in Gainesville, where Bagnall is the founder and executive director. The sisters have 205 neighbors. Most are abandoned pets or retired research 
monkeys dumped in Bagnall’s 44-
acre backyard, where she and staff nurse them back to health.
In Bagnall’s makeshift jungle, 
she gives the primates a home.
Samantha was Bagnall’s first 
monkey.
A man, referred to as “the ex-
boyfriend,” surprised Bagnall with 
a 4-month-old white-faced capu-
chin 22 years ago. But for the ex-boyfriend, the novelty wore off quickly.
Sam is a biter.“He decided that he did not 
want the monkey anymore. I de-cided I would keep the monkey and get rid of the boyfriend,” she said 
with a chuckle.
“We always had dogs and cats 
when I was a kid,” she went on. 
“You know, if a baby bird would 
fall out of the tree, I’d bring the bird 
home, and we’d have to nurse the bird back to health. But never in a million years would I have thought that I would have 207 monkeys.”
It takes $60,000 a month to run 
the sanctuary, she said, adding that she spends most of her time fund-raising for the nonprofit.
Bagnall lives in a modest mobile 
home in the middle of the sanctu-ary. There are nicer houses on the property — but why move, she said, when she can look out her windows and see the monkeys?
Inside, blankets are strewn 
about, probably for the dogs.
When asked how many she has, 
she replied, “Oh, I don’t know.” 
There’s Penny and Baby Duck, 
the bad dogs; Potter, who came with the property; and Jackie, who 
runs “to keep her girlish figure.”
Bagnall sits at the wooden kitch-
en table with Gabby on her shoul-der. The cockatoo’s white feathers 
blend in with Bagnall’s shoulder-length, wispy white hair.
Everyone, including the bird, 
fights for her attention.
      
From Secretarial School to 
Monkey Business
At 19, Bagnall followed her fa-
ther to Las Vegas to go to secretarial school.“After I found out I did not like 
secretarial school — I didn’t like be-ing a secretary or working in an of-fice — I ended up becoming a cock-
tail waitress and then went to some 
college classes,” she said. “I was going to be a nurse. And then I de-cided I didn’t want to be a nurse, so 
I went to went to real estate school, 
and got my real estate license.”
Overworked and stressed to the 
core, Bagnall quit real estate, got a license as an interior designer and 
started her own business.
Then Samantha came along.
“She thought I was her mother. 
I mean she practically lived on my 
back,” Bagnall said.
The minute Bagnall discovered 
how baby monkeys were stolen from their mothers’ arms, she de-
cided she would dedicate her life to helping the creatures and educating 
the public against having them as 
pets.
After Samantha came her sister, 
Charlotte. Eleven other monkeys followed.
In 1999, Bagnall moved from Las 
Vegas to Gainesville with 13 mon-keys, the first residents at Jungle Friends.
“I’ve always said to her, I 
couldn’t have done what she’s done,” said Sara Smith, a director at the sanctuary. 
Smith, who’s worked alongside 
Bagnall since 2001, said Bagnall is 
the hardest worker she knows.
“She’s very much in charge. She 
knows what she wants, and she gets 
it,” Smith said. “She’s just a sparkly 
person.”
Bagnall’s energy on four to six 
hours of sleep is higher than some-
one running on a full eight. In a mat-ter of 15 minutes, her house phone 
rings, she answers. A jingle escapes 
from her iPhone, she responds. Voices stream out of her walkie-talkie, she talks back.
She’s definitely in charge, but 
her reign is gentle. She keeps calm amid the chaos.
“You hang around a bunch of 
monkeys, and you’re going to be 
changed,” Bagnall said. “You learn 
to calm down. Because even if somebody runs, then the monkeys go off, and they think there is dan-ger.”
Bagnall rarely leaves the sanctu-
ary. When she does, it’s to speak out against the pet trade in conferences across the U.S.
“As far as taking a day off?” she 
says. “Why would I? To do what?”
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
A GAINESVILLE WOMAN’S MONKEY BUSINESS
Carla Vianna / Alligator Staff
LEFT: Kari Bagnall, the owner of Jungle Friends Primate Sanctuary, lets Samantha, the 22-year-old white-faced capuchin monkey, grasp her finger. 
Bagnall has owned Samantha since the monkey was four months old.RIGHT: A baby brown-faced capuchin monkey hangs on the side of a habitat in the Jungle Friends Primate Sanctuary on Tuesday. Two hundred and seven monkeys live in the 44-acre sanctuary.Jungle Friends owner made a home for 207 monkeys FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
Volunteers of America is offering free, all-
inclusive housing for homeless veterans in a friendly, supportive atmosphere. Please call Woody at 352.642.8313 for immediate move-in!    2-16-15-7-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony$575 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs$685 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-22BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    
2-25-15-20-2
TIRED OF ROOMMATES?
Move-in ready 1bed/1bath in Windsor Park.  $700/mo.  Contact Debra Oberlin, REALTOR 
352-514-6715 EXIT Realty Producers    
2-10-15-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-1297 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-20-14-73-13 TOP CASH PAID FOR OLD GUITARS!  
1920's thru 1980's Gibson, Martin, Fender, 
Gretsch, Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, 
Rickenbacker, Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg, And Gibson Mandolins/Banjos.1-800-401-0440    2-6-1-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
12, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Operation Catnip has an opening for a full-
time Volunteer Coordinator!Job duties include: recruitment, training, and  supervision, of volunteer workforce. Must be highly organized, comfortable managing un-paid staff and able to work and communicate with diverse stakeholders. Volunteers come from all walks - the local community includes the college of veterinary medicine, university student population of 50k and a county pop-ulation of 250k. Anticipated salary of $26k. Please go to the following link to learn more and to apply for this position:http://sheltermedicine.vetmed.ufl.edu/about-us/employment/position-opening-volunteer-coordinator/     2-6-5-14
Immediate opening for a PT Medical Front Office person. Multi-tasking and accuracy is a MUST! Please email your resume to trc0102@yahoo.com    2-6-15-5-14
Looking for help on the weekends to work with children at an indoor play center for children and families. We want to add to our ener-getic, friendly, trustworthy and hard -working team. Must be able to commit to 2 weekends a month. Please call 352-278-7128    2-6-15-3-14
Best Programming Job in Gainesville
Help build WWW 3.0 - the Semantic Web. 
Must be experienced ASP.NET MVCprogrammer. Change the scientific world. Apply to info@chemicalsemantics.com    2-13-15-7-14
Investor seeks student partner / webde -
signer to help build web-based business in exchange for % of business. Willing to cover expenses. Must be positive. jholifield1@gmail.com    2-6-15-1-14
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW!Learn to drive for CON-WAY TRUCKLOADNO Experience Needed. Local CDL TrainingApply Today! 1-800-709-7364    2-6-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Training! 3 Week Program. Bulldozers, Backhoes, Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement Assistance with National Certifications. VA Benefits Eligible! (866) 912-0572    2-6-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    2-6-1-14
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 855-588-1161    2-6-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
AIRCRAFT DISPATCH Grads work with 
JetBlue, Southwest, PSA and others- start here with 10 week training for FAA certifica-tion. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    2-6-1-15
FLIGHT Attendant CAREERS start here – Learn how to land a job in the friendly skies and prepare for training by the airlines. Five information packed days in Orlando. Call AIM 888-242-3630.    2-6-1-15
WELDING CAREERS - Hands on training for career opportunities in aviation, automo-tive, manufacturing and more. Financial aid for qualified students. Job placement assis-tance. CALL AIM 877-206-7679    2-6-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Attention Viagra Users!VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305     1-30-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCHOHOL? Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-972-6607    1-30-1-16
Attention Viagra Users!VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305     2-6-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCHOHOL? Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-972-6607    2-6-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Sammi Burgess and the 
UF lacrosse team open their season on Saturday against UNC. Read the story on page 14. UF women’s basketball faces ranked opponent
The Gators face No. 8 Tennessee at 2 p.m. on Sunday in the O’Connell Center. Florida sits at 11-11 heading into the matchup. Women’s Tennis Heads to Virginia for ITA Championships
The No. 2 UF women’s tennis team travels to Charlottesville, Virginia today for the ITA National Team Indoor Championship. The Gators face No. 13 Clemson in the first round. LUIS TORRES
Alligator Writer @LFTorresIII
Every once in a while, there is 
an athlete who goes into a pro-gram and becomes an impact player from the get-go.
The player comes in, sets the 
world on fire and shatters numer-ous records.
The Florida Gators softball 
team has a player who has done just that over the past two years.
Her name is Kelsey Stewart, 
and she might just be one of the best softball players UF has seen come through its program.
One look at what the junior has 
accomplished on the softball field and in the batters box tells the story of how great she has since putting on a UF uniform.
Coach Tim Walton said Stew-
art is already a household name around the program.     
“Everybody knows how tal-
ented she is,” Walton said. “She’s 
super competitive, not only with 
herself, but with her teammates 
and opponents.”
The Wichita, Kansas, native set 
three UF single-season records in her freshman season. She hit 10 triples, which ended up leading the nation. She also swiped 36 bases on 39 attempts.
Her .378 average at the plate 
led the team and she ranked sec-ond in the Southeastern Confer-ence with 90 hits, all while leading the conference in plate appearanc-es (274) and at-bats (238).
Stewart was also selected as a 
member of the Freshman All-SEC Team and was a Second Team All-SEC selection.
Growing up in a town like 
Wichita led Stewart to be moti-vated to show how good she can really be on the softball field to ev-
eryone and become a role model.
“I started really young and 
then from a small town, so just re-
alizing that now I’m here and girls want to push to be where I am,” Stewart said. 
In her sophomore year, Stew-
art showed the entire country just how good she can really be. Even though she set records her first year, those accolades paled in comparison to what she did as a sophomore.
She upped her batting aver-
age up to a robust .438 and led the SEC with a school record 102 hits. Stewart began the season by reaching base 41 consecutive times, another UF record. The team’s leadoff hitter tied her own school record with 36 stolen bas-es, while attempting a record 41.
Stewart was honored as an a 
NFCA First Team All-American selection. The second baseman also was 
named to the All-SEC First Team and was an integral cog for Flor-ida as they captured their first national title in school history as she was named to the Women’s College World Series All-Tourna-ment team.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kelsey Stewart rounds the bases during Florida’s 17-1 win against USF on April 23 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. Stewart will be a major asset for Florida this season.
Junior ready to take charge as UF softball opens season today
BASKETBALL
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
Following Florida’s 67-61 loss to a 
Vanderbilt team that had lost seven straight Southeastern Conference games, Michael Frazier II said that the team “didn’t come out with any passion or en-ergy.”
With every SEC 
game a must-win for the Gators (12-10, 5-4 SEC), it’s surprising when 
a player says that the team isn’t prepared to capitalize on the oppor-tunities at hand.
That can’t happen 
anymore. Not if Florida 
wants to make the NCAA tournament.
Now, with undefeated and No. 1 Ken-tucky (22-0, 9-0 SEC) coming to town for a 9 p.m. Saturday matchup, the Gators are in serious danger of dropping a second straight game.
Because if Florida isn’t motivated from 
the opening tip, Kentucky could get the sweet revenge the Wildcats have craved since the Gators swept all three games against them last year, including a 84-65 walloping in Gainesville to seal UF’s per-fect 18-0 SEC finish.
Coach Billy Donovan said what makes 
Kentucky so good is they never have laps-es where the team struggles to score or get stops, areas in which the Gators have been guilty of nodding off this season.
“I would say watching Kentucky play, 
they’re an inspired team and play very motivated,” Donovan said. “We’re ex-Donovan hopes Florida shows 
up against No. 1 Kentucky
 CECE JEFFERSON TWEETED HE 
IS STILL COMMITTED TO UF. JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Terrell Williams’ time in Gainesville 
didn’t last long.
One month after leaving the Oakland 
Raiders to become Florida’s defensive line 
coach, Williams is going back to the NFL as 
the Miami Dolphins’ defensive line coach.
The Gators’ 
coaching staff is 
now short two po-sitional coaches — 
coach Jim McElwain has yet to hire a wide receivers coach since taking over the pro-gram.
Five-star defensive end CeCe Jefferson, who committed to Florida on Wednesday, has yet to fax in his National Letter of In-tent. His father, Leo Jefferson, attributed the hesitation to the instability in Florida’s 
coaching staff.
“Yes we are holding out. Florida mak-
ing to many coaching changes this is not a 
game it’s my son life,” Leo Jefferson tweet-ed from his personal account (@frog2567).
CeCe Jefferson took to Twitter himself 
just after 7 p.m., explaining in a string of three tweets from his personal account (@cecejefferson7) why he did not turn in his letter of intent.
“I haven’t sent in my LOI because some-
one told me a few days before NSD that williams was leaving,why send it in with-out being sure ?” he wrote at 7:07 p.m.
CeCe Jefferson then wrote he is still 
committed to Florida.UF defensive line coach 
leaves after one month on job
Donovan
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15Kelsey Stewart still has room to improve
“I love Kelsey Stewart and 
she brings it every single day 
and if she continues to bring 
it, she’s going to be one of 
the best we’ve ever had.”
Tim Walton
UF softball coach
UF Fo otballSEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 15 FLORIDA HAS AN EIGHT-MEMBER 
FRESHMAN CLASS
ALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer @alexmaminakis
In sports, the beginning of a season is 
refreshing for a team. 
It’s a blank slate. 
And with any new season comes the 
ﬁ  rst game.
No. 3 Florida opens its 2015 season on 
at 11:30 a.m. on Saturday when it hosts No. 2 North Carolina (1-0) at Dizney Sta-dium.
The ﬁ  rst game typically plays out like 
a mother coaxing her young child into a swimming pool for the ﬁ  rst time – she needs to help the child in slowly, but once he or she is fully submerged into the pool, 
the child adjusts and comes to enjoy the 
experience.
For Florida lacrosse, this will not be the 
story of its ﬁ  rst game. 
The Gators’ ﬁ  rst game will consist of 
the mother deviously shoving the young child into the pool with no help or care of the child’s fate. 
Florida is no stranger to the Tar Heels 
of UNC, but they aren’t exactly best buds either. 
North Carolina holds a 4-1 series lead against the Gators, with last year’s match going to the Tar Heels by a score of 20-8.
With Saturday’s game being Florida’s 
ﬁ  rst of the season, the Gators want to come out strong and prove that last year’s lopsided defeat will not be an annual oc-currence against UNC. 
The Gators want to make a statement.Sophomore attacker Sammi Burgess 
said Florida’s conﬁ  dence will be the big-gest difference between this year’s game against UNC and last year’s.
“Last year, nobody knew what to ex-
pect from us,” Burgess said. “We are still young but we are really good this year, and we have all the potential in the world.”
Burgess added that this year’s fresh-
man class could be a big advantage when competing with top-tier teams, starting on Saturday with UNC.
“They’re amazing,” Burgess said of the 
freshmen. “If we can get them to be conﬁ  -dent on the ﬁ  eld and to just trust in what they’re doing, they’re gonna be a huge role on our team.”
Shayna Pirreca is one of those talented 
freshmen, an attacker from Mount Sinai, New York. 
For her and the rest of the eight-mem-
ber freshman class, Saturday’s match against UNC will be a great learning ex-
perience, whether they play in the game 
or not. The atmosphere alone will be enough of a welcome to college moment.
“It’s deﬁ  nitely very nerve-racking but 
it’s really exciting at the same time,” Pir-reca said of her ﬁ  rst collegiate game being against UNC. “Just to go out there and get to compete on the highest level my ﬁ  rst game, it’s really exciting.”
Pirreca said she is feeling comfort-
able ﬁ  tting into the Florida offense and is ready to go if her number is called against the Tar Heels.
This match against UNC will only 
be the beginning of a very intimidating schedule this year for the Gators. Florida will face six teams ranked inside the pre-season top 20, including No. 1 Maryland, 
the defending NCAA champions.
But Burgess and the Gators are staying 
conﬁ  dent and trusting in themselves to 
make the 2015 season a memorable one.
“I think that if we can work together 
and come together as a team,” Burgess said, “we’re gonna be amazing.”14, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sammi Burgess attempts a shot during Florida’s 18-7 win against High Point on Feb. 15 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Burgess and No. 3 UF lacrosse opens its 2015 season on Saturday against No. 2 UNC. The Gators are 1-4 all-time against the Tar Heels.
Young UF lacrosse team opens season Saturday
CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @CayUnderwood
After last weekend, the Florida men’s 
tennis team made it clear that a ranking 
is just a number.
The Gators — ranked No. 17 in the 
country at the time — pulled off an upset 
to defeat then-No. 4 UCLA 4-3, with red-
shirt freshman Oliver Landert clinching 
the match.
“(Last weekend) they played at a very 
high level and we’ve got to continue that 
moving forward,” coach Bryan Shelton 
said.
No. 14 Florida (4-2) looks to ride the 
momentum of that win when it plays No. 
32 Florida State (7-1) at 5 p.m. in Talla-hassee. 
The Gators own a 55-20 all-time series 
advantage against the Seminoles and have not dropped a dual meet to Florida State since Feb. 17, 2007.
If UF wants to keep the 14-match win 
streak against FSU alive, Shelton said he 
will need to rely on his veteran players 
— namely juniors Diego Hidalgo and Gordon Watson — to make some big plays. 
“Diego and Gordon are an excellent 
doubles team. They’re leading us at the No. 1 position,” Shelton said. “We feel like they could be one of the most domi-nant teams in the country, but our No. 2 and No. 3 teams right now are not very far behind.”
Through six matches this season, 
Hidalgo remains undefeated in singles play.
The Guayaquil, Ecuador, native de-
feated a ranked opponent — No. 8 Jonny Wang of USC in Florida’s 5-2 loss to the No. 1 team in the country — for his ﬁ  rst time in his collegiate dual match singles 
career.
Shelton agrees that the 5-foot-11 ju-
nior is one of the stronger players on the 
team, and he’s looking forward to what Hidalgo has to bring on the court this 
season.
“It’s certainly still very early in the 
season,” Shelton said. “We’ll just con-
tinue to work to try and get better. We’ve got a really tough opponent coming up 
on Friday night in Tallahassee.”Florida men’s 
tennis faces 
FSU today“If we can get them to be 
conﬁ  dent on the ﬁ  eld and to just 
trust in what they’re doing, they’re 
gonna be a huge role on our 
team.”
Sammi Burgess
UF lacrosse player
UF Sports In Action This Week
Today Saturday Sunday
Track & Field:
Virginia Tech Elite (Day 1) — 
Blacksburg, Virginia
Softball:
vs. Hampton at 4 p.m. — 
Tampa
Men’s Tennis: 
vs. Florida State at 5 p.m. — 
TallahasseeWomen’s Tennis: 
vs. Clemson (National Team 
Indoors) at 6:30 p.m. — 
Charlottesville, Virginia
Gymnastics: 
vs. Arkansas at 8 p.m. — 
Fayetteville, ArkansasTrack & Field: 
Virginia Tech Elite (Day 2) 
— Blacksburg, Virginia
Lacrosse: 
vs. North Carolina at 
11:30 a.m. — Donald R. 
Dizney StadiumSoftball: 
vs. Michigan at 1:30 p.m. 
— Tampa
vs. Illinois State at 3:45 
p.m. — Tampa
Men’s Basketball:
 vs. Kentucky at 9 p.m. — 
O’Connell CenterWomen’s Golf: 
Northrop Grumman 
Regional Challenge 
(Day 1) — Palos Verde, 
California
Softball: 
vs. Jacksonville at 
noon — TampaWomen’s 
Basketball: 
vs. Tennessee at 2 
p.m. — O’Connell 
Center
Softball:
 vs. USF at 4 p.m. — 
Tampapecting them to be at their best when we 
play against them and hopefully we can be at our best.”
Donovan knows the team didn’t bring its 
best against the Commodores.
The Gators trailed the entire time as shot 
after shot failed to find the bottom of the net, including the first nine as Vanderbilt buried Florida early with a 15-0 game-opening run.
Senior Jacob Kurtz said that after two 
great practices and riding a two-game win-ning streak, he was surprised with how the Gators tumbled with a chance to pad the résumé.
“I wasn’t expecting that,” Kurtz said. “I 
thought we would be ready to go. We obvi-ously weren’t. That’s something we have to be better at against anybody we play as I said earlier. Especially when you get down 15 points, that’s really tough to start, espe-cially on the road, you really can’t do that. “
Kurtz will face the daunting task of at-
tempting to limit Wildcats big men Karl-Anthony Towns and Willie Cauley-Stein.
 Donovan said one of the keys to the 
game will be controlling the glass, limiting Kentucky’s attempts to get extra posses-sions.
“I think for us it’s always a concern, the 
rebounding, with some of the lack of size up front,” Donovan said. “Playing Kentucky on Saturday, they are going to have clearly a lot more size than Vanderbilt has, so that’s FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
TRACK AND FIELD
KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator Writer @KBrut13       
The No.1/2 Florida men’s and women’s 
track and field teams have been able to find success across the board thus far in the 2015 indoor season, but the athletes that are catching the most eyes throughout the country are Florida’s jumpers.
To be more specific, se-
nior Marquis Dendy and freshman KeAndre Bates 
are the main components of the Gators’ jumpers that are igniting Florida’s jumping program into a league of its own.
UF has a history of 
developing top jumpers, including Omar Craddock and 2012 Olympic triple jump-medalists Christian Taylor and Will Claye.
Dendy and newcomer Bates, who has 
won two consecutive Southeastern Confer-ence Men’s Freshman of the Week awards, are first and third in the NCAA, respec-tively, in the long jump. The duo is also in position to qualify for the National Indoor Championships in the triple jump, as they are both currently ranked in the top-16 na-tionally in the event.
Much of the jumpers’ success can be at-
tributed to the coaching style of the teams’ jumping coach, Nic Peterson.
The combination of Peterson’s ability to 
push his jumpers to the limit and the sym-pathetic attitude that he coaches with is the key to ensuring that athletes such as Bates 
and Dendy perform at their best at each and 
every meet.
“He encourages me … that’s one aspect 
that I like about coach Nic,” Bates said.
“He’s compassionate about it. He actu-
ally cares. You can tell by the way he coach-es.”
Bates, who is the country’s top freshman 
in both the long jump and triple jump, also 
credits his success to the relationship that he 
has built with Dendy.
Bates and Dendy share very similar traits as jumpers. Both are speed jumpers with fast 
approaches, although there are times when their approaches turn out a little shaky.
Sharing these characteristics turns out to 
be mutually beneficial, as they can help each other with the understanding for what the other jumper needs to do to improve them-selves based on comparable experiences.
“He’s like a brother to me. Since I’ve 
been here, he’s treated me like a little broth-er.” Bates said.
The Gators track and field teams travel to 
Blacksburg, Virginia, on Friday to compete 
in the Doc Hale Virginia Tech Elite.
While last week’s Razorback Invitation-
al featured 32 Florida athletes competing 
across the board, coach Mike Holloway is 
bringing a smaller group this week—small 
enough to fit the entire squad into a family 
minivan with room to spare.
The lineup for the meet in Blacksburg 
will be composed of five competitors.
Seniors Jayla Bostic, Kyle Strawn and 
Stipe Zunic and freshman Lloydricia Cam-eron will compete in the throwing events, while sophomore Becky Greene will com-pete as the Gators’ lone distance runner in the 3000-meter run.
Bostic has competed in one event this 
season, placing third in the women’s weight throw at the Rod McCravy Invitational.
Strawn finished seventh in the men’s 
weight throw at the McCravy Invite in Lex-ington, Kentucky. The effort set a personal record and improved his mark to fourth on the program’s all-time list in the feat.
In Lexington, Zunic finished runner-
up in the shot put, recording a throw that fell just short of 20 meters (19.97). His per-formance set a personal record, and also launched him into second-place on UF’s all-
time list.
Cameron made her Gator debut at the 
McCravy Invite, setting personal records in 
both the shot put and weight throw events.
Greene will be running in her first indi-
vidual event of the indoor season.
Jumpers bringing Florida track and field to new heights
Dendy
HOOPS , from page 13Florida fell 
flat against 
VanderbiltUF opens season with three-day tournament
Walton knows how much Stewart 
has brought to the program her first two 
years, but he still needs her to come out 
with the same attitude in her final two seasons as a Gator. 
“Right now, she’s been a good player 
for us, and the kids in our hallway at 
the stadium, they’ve been great play-
ers,” Walton said. “They brought it ev-ery single day for four years, not for two years.”
Walton is constantly trying to find 
ways to push Stewart into becoming the best player she can be.  
“He really likes to tell me I’m the sec-
ond best in the world, which you know 
is not OK, got to be the best,” Stewart 
said. 
“He always jokes around with me 
and is like ‘really you can’t get a bunt down, really soft slap.’ Just little things 
that he knows gets on my nerves be-cause I want to be the best.”
And with all the records Stewart has 
amassed in her first two years, Walton is 
still expecting Stewart to have the drive 
and determination to be up for the chal-lenge.
“She’s got a lot of work to still do,” 
Walton said. “I challenge her every-
day…I love Kelsey Stewart and she 
brings it every single day and if she con-tinues to bring it, she’s going to be one of the best we’ve ever had.”
Stewart has a chip on her shoulder 
entering her third year because she wants to prove Walton wrong. 
She’ll have that chance starting to-
day, as Florida opens its season against 
Hampton University in the USF Softball 
Classic in Tampa.
The Gators are in prime position to repeat as champions as they open up the 
season as the No. 1 team in the country.
With returning players like Lau-
ren Haeger, Kirsti Merritt and Delanie Gourley, Florida has a good shot at find-
ing itself back in Oklahoma City for an-
other WCWS run.
But the team might only go as far as 
Stewart will take them, as she’s more 
than assured to be penciled in at the top 
of the lineup.
Will Stewart be able to find a way to 
somehow improve in her third season 
and shatter more records and prove to 
Walton that she can become the player 
he expects her to be? She and a couple 
of her teammates have approached Wal-ton to see who exactly is the best in the world.   
“We asked him,” Stewart said, “and 
he can never tell me.”SOFTBALL , from page 13
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida opens its season at 4 p.m. against Hampton in the USF Softball Classic in Tampa. The Gators are attempting to repeat as Women’s College World Series Champions. 
TV: ESPN
Time: 9 p.m.
Location: O’Connell Center
Record: Kentucky leads 94-37GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
When the Gators need awe-in-
spiring, they rely on Kytra Hunter.
When they need energy, they 
look to Bridget Sloan.
But when consistency is re-
quired, they can always count on 
Rachel Spicer.
No. 2 Florida (3-1, 2-1 South-
eastern Conference) travels to Fay-etteville to take on No. 8 Arkansas (2-4, 1-2 SEC) tonight in search of that consistency, something it 
was unable to ﬁ  nd in the chaotic 
environment that was Tuscaloosa, Alabama — the team’s last road meet.
To make things more difﬁ  cult, 
the team will be without freshman Kennedy Baker, who suffered a 
mild concussion during training 
on Monday and now leaves a void in each event.
Although coach Rhonda Faehn 
said she hopes to see freshmen 
Ericha Fassbender and Grace 
McLaughlin help ﬁ  ll that role, it’s anyone’s guess how the young 
athletes will deal with the hostile 
atmosphere.
Thankfully for the Gators, they 
won’t need to worry about what 
type of performance Spicer will 
give them.
Throughout her career, Spicer 
has been a solid, hard-working performer for Florida. Even she describes herself that way.
“I think overall I’m just more 
of a consistent athlete and you’ll 
see me post very consistent scores 
across the board,” she said.
In her sophomore year, the 
team honored her as the most-
improved gymnast at the post-
season banquet. 
She came back even better the 
following year, competing in ev-ery vault and beam lineup that 
season as well as 12 competitions 
on ﬂ  oor, an event in which Faehn said Spicer shined.
But entering her senior season, 
the wear and tear of a collegiate gymnastics career started to take 
a toll. 
Throughout the 2014 season, 
she fought through a chronic 
Achilles tendon injury, and she 
was subsequently limited in her 
offseason training in an attempt to preserve her health.
“That’s why in preseason I 
wasn’t doing a lot of hard land-
ings and I started doing stuff like 
two or three months after most girls,” Spicer said.
So far this year, she has been 
able to compete on beam in every meet and on vault in all but the 
ﬁ  rst competition, putting up re-
peated scores in and around the 9.8 range.
Through the ﬁ  rst three weeks 
of the season, she had been unable to break into the ﬂ  oor lineup, but by the fourth meet against Geor-gia, Faehn was ready to let her give it a go.
“It was a matter of making sure 
that when we put her out there that she was gonna be 100 percent ready to go and to do it well,” Faehn said.
Spicer said she had been asking 
Faehn every day if she was ﬁ  nally ready to get back into the lineup.
“I had been working really 
hard in practice, in and outside 
the gym, just showing her that I’m 
ready to compete ﬂ  oor,” Spicer said.
Although her score was only 
a 9.775 — she received a 10th of 
a deduction for stepping outside 
the boundaries — she and Faehn were both satisﬁ  ed with the per-formance.
Spicer said now that she is back 
in the lineup, she plans on staying there for the rest of the year - not by doing anything ﬂ  ashy, but by putting up solid scores for the 
team.
“I think I get (my) highest score 
on ﬂ  oor, but I’m known for my 
consistency, not so much my im-
pressive skill level,” Spicer said.
Faehn doesn’t agree with that 
completely, however.
“She is right, she is just steady,” 
Faehn said. “What she does, she does well, and it’s a high difﬁ  -
culty, I think she’s selling herself short.”16, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Rachel Spicer performs her balance beam routine during Florida’s 197.60-196.95 win against 
Georgia on Friday in the O’Connell Center. 
Florida heads to Arkansas, looks to senior for consistency
Rachel Spicer’s 
career high scores
Vault: 9.90
Uneven Bars: 9.875 (Exhi-
bition)
Balance Beam: 9.90
Floor:  9.975GYMNASTICS
“I think overall I’m just 
more of a consistent athlete 
and you’ll see me post very 
consistent scores across 
the board.”
Rachel Spicer
 UF Gymnast