We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 156 THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015
Center ﬁ  elder cruicial for UF
The speedy sophomore has quickly 
improved this season, pg. 17
Former NFL -player, GNV native 
wanted for tax fraud
Clinton Portis failed to pay more than 450,000 in income taxes, pg. 4
Peak season hits for a summer treat: blueberries
The peak season lasts from June until July, pg. 5Stay up to date with the Alligator
The Alligator will not print during the break 
between Summer A and Summer B, but we will continue to publish breaking news online at alligator.org. Our next print edition is June 30.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
A UF employee removes a lock from an abandoned bicycle using a blowtorch outside Rawlings Hall on Wednesday morning. 
Bikes that are removed and not claimed will be auctioned off later in June.
CAMPUS
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
                
Abandoned bicycles chained with a U-Lock out-
side the Reitz Union and Rawlings Hall faced their biggest enemy on Wednesday: a blow torch. 
For the second time this year, the UF Police De-
partment came together with UF Transportation and Parking Services and UF Surplus to remove the abandoned bicycles. The bikes will be auctioned off toward the end of June.
About 300 bicycles were rounded up, UPD Capt. 
Jeff Holcomb said. The numbers were similar the last time they rounded up abandoned bikes in Feb-ruary.
This year, UPD focused on reminding students to 
ﬁ  gure out what to do with their bicycles, Holcomb said. The message was relayed through housing two weeks before the Summer semester, he added.
Typically, the department tags all bicycles on 
campus with a notice directing students to remove the notice if the bicycle isn’t abandoned. 
“If the tags are gone, we leave the bike in place,” 
Holcomb said.
But if the tags are still in place after a few weeks, 
UPD spends about a day or two rounding up aban-doned bicycles with two dump trucks. 
Students then have about 30 days to claim their 
bicycle if they can prove ownership, Holcomb said. If the bicycles aren’t claimed, they are auctioned off. 
Ron Fuller, the assistant director for transporta-
tion and parking, said the two different bicycle re-movals determine if the bicycle will be recycled or auctioned. 
Bicycles in good condition that pass the 3/5 rule 
— three or more components consisting of the two Abandoned bikes at UF rounded up for auction
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
In January 2016, finding a seat in the Reitz 
Union food court will be slightly easier. 
About 250 seats will be added to the first-floor 
food court in an attempt to ease crowded lunch 
hours, said Eddie Daniels, the executive director of the Reitz Union. 
The foundation is beginning on the basement 
floor near the loading dock.
In the next coming weeks, seating across from 
Pollo Tropical will expand outward, Daniels said. It was something they knew they needed, he add-ed.
“We’re coming down to the wire in terms of 
completion,” Daniels said. 
$1.8 million in funding made the seat-expan-
sion project, which wasn’t in the original plan, possible, Daniels said. 
They were able to find funds from Follett’s 
business with UF, the businesses service depart-ment at UF and the Reitz Union budget. 
Foot traffic will be minimally 
impacted, Daniels said. Once the 
structure is built beneath the first 
floor, the booths that line the wall will be boarded up to sepa-rate outside construction from 
the food court. 
Renovation of 60,000 square 
feet around and in the Reitz be-
gan in August 2013, said Mike Mironack, Reitz Union director of operations. 
Brian Becker, 20, came to UF when the con-
struction was just beginning. 
The political science and economics junior, 250 seats coming to Reitz food courtCAMPUS
APPLICATIONS ARE OPEN 
UNTIL JUL Y.
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
At one point, RayAnn Moseley 
took four different medicines to help 
her intractable epilepsy, but the sei-zures didn’t stop.
When the 12-year-old’s moth-
er, Holley Moseley, saw the CNN documentary “Weed,” she and her husband took RayAnn to Colorado, where medical marijuana is legal.
“We’ve tried everything that 
modern medicine has to offer,” the 35-year-old said.The Moseleys considered moving 
to Colorado so RayAnn, who also suffers from cerebral palsy, could 
ﬁ  nd relief.
But now, after ﬁ  ghting for Flor-
ida’s Compassionate Medical Can-
nabis Act of 2014 (SB 1030), they won’t have to.
The Florida Department of Health 
will award licenses to ﬁ  ve nurseries in the state to grow low-THC, high-CBD medical marijuana.
Applications for growing medical Medical marijuana 
licenses available in FL
“W e’ve tried everything that 
modern medicine has to ofer.”
Holley Moseley
Mother of RayAnnDaniels
SEE REITZ,  PAGE 8SEE BIKES,  PAGE 8
SEE WEED,  PAGE 8Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 156
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
World Sea Turtle Day Celebration
Celebrate World Sea Turtle Day 
on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Florida Museum of Natural History with the Sea 
Turtle Conservancy. Children 
and families are invited to tour the museum’s sea turtle exhibit with staff from the Sea Turtle Conservancy. Children also may create fun crafts to take home, meet sea turtle scientists and play 
turtle trivia for a chance to win a 
cool prize. The event is free.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. Please submit the event before 4 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after above events, and keep them 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.HIGH  99° LOW  73°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Grace Hudgins, Lindsey
  Saucier, Elana Costello, Kristine Janata 
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Serina Esquivel, Bailey Gaul, 
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Nadine Rae Saladino ,  
  Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel Lo
THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
LOCAL
By Dana Hatchett
Alligator Staff Writer
dhatchett@alligator.org
With more than 13,000 mem-
bers, the Gainesville Word of 
Mouth Facebook page has a strong impact on the community.
If a Facebook user scrolls down 
the page, the user sees reviews of different businesses that range from restaurants and grocery stores to plumbing services and hair sa-lons, among others, all located in Gainesville.
“Gainesville Word of Mouth al-
lows people to get recommenda-tions from other people right in 
our community rather than relying 
on other internet sites that may be giving biased reviews based on ad-vertising,” said Lydia Gillespie, one of the main administrators of the Facebook page.
Ronny Herrera, the president of 
Reef House Media in Gainesville, a company that focuses on mar-
keting local businesses, said he noticed the group was gaining 
popularity and decided to write an article on Linkedin.com regarding the influence the Gainesville Word 
of Mouth page could have on a 
business.
“The sheer fact that 1 in 10 peo-
ple in Gainesville have a chance to see this negative review makes it very likely that people would avoid that business,” Herrera wrote in an email.  
Herrera also said the Facebook 
page has the potential to help smaller businesses that don’t have the money to do extensive advertis-ing if people post good reviews.
“Positive reviews most certainly 
drive people to these places, which is good for the local economy,” Herrera said.
Samantha Choy, a UF finance 
and psychology sophomore, said she trusts the Facebook group be-cause the users are people who know Gainesville.
“You can depend on Yelp, you 
can depend on all these other web-sites, but these are coming from real people from Gainesville,” 
Choy said.
Users get to use social media to 
share information on the page that 
influences where customers flock.
“We really admire the many 
business owners who are members of the group, and their willingness to embrace the power of social me-dia and to see it as an opportunity 
to strengthen their relationships 
with their patrons,” Gillespie said.
Facebook page has significant impact on local businesses4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
After passing through ﬁ  rst reading with 
almost unanimous support last week, the 
2015-2016 Fiscal Year Activity and Service Fee Budget passed its ﬁ  nal hurdle Tuesday.
The Senate approved the second reading 
of the more than $20 million budget by a vote of 73-4 at its ﬁ  nal meeting of Summer A.
The money for the budget comes solely 
from student activity and service fees. The fees for the 2014-2015 academic year were $18.19 per credit hour, so a student who was enrolled in 30 credits of classes at UF paid $545.70 in fees that were used to fund the budget.
The budget is separated into four sectors, 
and the money is approximately distributed as follows:
 Student Government Budget: $5.4 
million
 Rec Sports: $6.6 million
 Reitz Union: $6.7 million
 Student Activities and Involvement: 
$1.3 million
The nine-person Budget and Appropria-
tions committee worked with Student Body Treasurer Nicholas Carre in order to deter-mine the best way to allocate the budget.
Committee Chairman Smith Meyers 
(Swamp, District A) said this budget is a great example of the different branches of Student Government working together.
“The committee is given a budget, and we 
are charged with allocating that budget in a ﬁ  scally responsible manner,” Meyers said. “And I believe that this budget is the best re-sult of us fulﬁ  lling that duty.”$20 million budget approved
By Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org
The suspect involved in the Gainesville bur-
glary spree on June 9 has been arrested.
On Wednesday afternoon — just a week after 
his spree — Dwayne Bruce Ofﬁ  cer, 43, of Pana-
ma City Beach, was found and arrested follow-ing an investigation, according to a Gainesville Police press release. Ofﬁ  cer burglarized 20 busi-nesses by prying open windows and doors.
By the time police identiﬁ  ed Ofﬁ  cer, he had 
made his way back to Panama City, according to the release.
The GPD Special Operations Unit drove 
down to Panama City to meet with the Bay County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce to get an arrest warrant. While there, the Bay County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce got a search warrant for Ofﬁ  cer’s home where they 
found the shirt seen on surveillance footage, the 
backpack and pry tool. Police also found four stolen ﬁ  rearms.
The investigation revealed that Ofﬁ  cer is 
linked to similar burglary sprees in Tallahassee, Pensacola, Panama City Beach, Neptune Beach, Atlantic Beach, Jacksonville Beach, Jackson-ville, Clearwater, St. Johns County and Pasco County, according to the release.
GPD is ﬁ  ling 20 counts of burglary to busi-
nesses against Ofﬁ  cer.
As of press time, he is being held by the Bay 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce. He is expected to be in-terviewed by GPD and Bay County ofﬁ  cials. Of-ﬁ  cer will then be booked into the Bay County Jail.Suspect in burglary spree 
identiﬁ  ed and arrested
 By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
ghall@alligator.org
The Internal Revenue Service says former Washington Red-
skins star and Gainesville native Clinton Portis failed to pay 
more than $450,000 in federal income taxes.
According to documents, Portis failed to pay $401,432.18 in 
individual income taxes in 2006, when Portis was in his third 
season with the Redskins. 
He also failed to pay $57,187.61 in individual income taxes in 2010, according to the documents.
Portis owes an additional $287,178.56 to 
the MGM Grand Hotel in Las Vegas from May 
2015, according to court testimony obtained by the Alligator. The former Gainesville High 
standout lists two properties in Gainesville.
Investigators sought Portis in August 
2014 regarding the foreclosure of his then-current residence in Gainesville at 3510 NE 
156th Ave. A private investigator made six attempts to serve papers at the residence to no avail. After attempts to ﬁ  nd him proved unsuccessful, the investigator attempted to make con-tact at his other listed residence, 1919 NE Seventh Place. The 
investigator listed that property as vacant and abandoned after 
failing to make contact.
Portis’ only form of known current employment is at speak-
ing engagements and autograph signings, where he is repre-sented by Ryan Totka of Athlete Promotions in Windemere. Totka is also representing Portis in an unknown lawsuit against the NFL.
Portis, 33, played nine seasons in the NFL before announc-
ing his retirement in 2012.Former NFL player, Gainesville native wanted for tax fraud
Portis
By Brooke Perry
Alligator Contributing Writer
    
Along with scorching hot temperatures and buck-
ets of rainfall, the summer season also brings some-
thing a little sweeter: blueberries.
While the little blue fruit is available in grocery 
stores year-round, the peak season in North America 
runs June through July.
The Sunshine State hosts numerous blueber-
ry farms, most being located in north and central Florida. Ward’s Supermarket in Gainesville takes advantage of this by buying locally during this time of year.
“(The sales) have been great because blueberries 
are limited,” said Jeffery Jackson, Ward’s assistant produce manager. “The season is so short. Going into the rainy season, they’ll end up tapering off in another month or so.”
Currently, Ward’s carries both organic and non-
organic blueberries from local vendors. Once the season is over, though, the store will revert to buy-ing the product from South America.
“Mainly we look for pricing,” Jackson said. “If 
they’re plentiful, everyone has them, so we look for a better deal so we can share a better deal with our customers. We also look for quality.”Quality is also important to Jeanette Mullins, the 
owner of one of Gainesville’s oldest blueberry farms.
“When we moved here there wasn’t a thing on 
this land but sandspurs,” the 88-year-old said.
Mullins’ husband started growing berries on 
the land as a project more than 40 years ago. The farm, located at 1425 NW 156th Ave., is now called Monteocha Gardens, and it’s currently full of berry 
patches as well as 6,000 cedar trees planted by her 
late husband.
“He was the second patch in the county to be 
open to the public,” Mullins said.
When her husband passed 25 years ago, Mullins 
became the caretaker of the farm.
Since the farm has no irrigation system, Mullins 
said the product is 100 percent dependent on the weather.
“Two or three years ago, there was not one single 
berry in that whole patch, not one,” she said. “It’s better this year, but nothing outstanding due to the lack of rain.”
Hoping to break even on the cost of upkeep this 
year, Mullins would like to have more pickers come out to the property, which is open from daylight to dark seven days a week.
They sell for $4 per pound pre-picked, and $3 per 
pound if you pick them yourself.
The berries grown at Monteocha Gardens are or-
ganic, as Mullins does not use any unnatural fertil-izers, herbicides or pesticides. 
“I don’t believe in all that. I don’t want to be 
responsible for poisoning the Earth,” she said. “(The blueberries I grow) are clean so you can eat them while you pick them even though they are small.”THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Brooke Perry / Alligator
T aylor Hopper, a 20 -year -old UF anthropology student, picks blueberries 
at Monteocha Gardens, a blueberry farm at 1425 NW 156th Ave., on Saturday. The farm’s owners have been growing berries for about 40 years.
Peak season hits for a sweet summer treat: blueberries
“Two or three years ago, there was not one 
single berry in that whole patch, not one. It’s 
better this year, but nothing outstanding due 
to the lack of rain.”
Jeanette Mullins
owner of Monteocha GardensThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Rachel Dolezal and the perpetual outrage machine
The perpetual outrage machine — even 
if you have never heard of it in such terms, if you are an American who goes 
on social media, watches cable news net-
works or is in any way in-tune with what 
is considered news at the moment, you are inti-mately familiar with it. 
The perpetual outrage machine, at least as 
I deﬁ  ne it, is the roughly one- to two-week 
cycle where something — or in its most recent iteration, someone — manages to add a new/chic/sexy/what-have-you spin on a pre-existing, hot-button issue in American society. Following routine reports on the matter, what happens next is a quick but intense fever of think pieces, debates and yes, outrage. Not only does the in-citing incident inspire opinions in every single American, but they become — regardless of their respective back-grounds, upbringing or career — an expert on the subject, whether it’s race, gender ﬂ  uidity, continuous global war-fare, police brutality, etc.
I’m not going to talk about Rachel Dolezal too exten-
sively in this piece, because quite frankly, I don’t care all 
that much. It is cliché to say that there are much more pressing issues in the world right now, but barring even that, there are much more pressing issues in American race 
relations right now, such as access to adequate education 
and job opportunities. I am thankful that when all media-circus hell broke loose, I was in an area of Tennessee where my cell phone service hovered between poor and nonexistent. When I returned home, I was more shocked 
that Christopher Lee had died (seriously, R.I.P.) than to 
learn that a white woman, for whatever twisted reason, had decided to pretend to be black and become the head of her local NAACP chapter.
The world is ﬁ  lled to the brim with bizarre tales of hu-
mans acting idiotically every day — the phrase “Florida Man” exists for a reason. The only basis for Dolezal’s ascension from slow-news-day headline to na-tional debate is that race has (rightfully so) once more become a talking point for Americans. It 
certainly helps that Dolezal’s narrative is an eas-
ier one to package into a two-minute television bit, free of the complexities that pervade matters like the mass incarceration of black men or the 
wealth gap, but that is neither here nor there.
I said that I wasn’t going to talk about 
Dolezal, and I already feel like I’ve wasted too 
many keystrokes on the subject. After all, Dolezal is only 
a symptom, not the cause, of the latest installment in the 
ongoing perpetual outrage machine saga. Americans have 
long been prone to hysteria and ﬁ  xating on singular issues — McCarthyism and the Red Scare are but one instance of the perpetual outrage machine rearing its ugly head pre-
24/7 news cycle. At this point, we’re in too deep to stop 
it — Twitter hashtags, Tumblr and CNN have all but en-sured that Americans will be forever locked in a constant argument with each other over petty issues that have no bearing on their day-to-day lives.
All I can do is invoke the sage wisdom of Timothy 
Leary: Drop out. When I returned to Florida, it was pretty apparent that #Dolezal was #abigdeal. It was refreshing to have not actively participated, or hell, even known about 
the latest instance of American exceptionalism to have cap-
tured the collective heart, mind and Facebook feed of the nation. It was a brief moment of clarity, allowed only by my lack of Internet access. In the event that I’d had access to my Facebook feed and gotten sucked in myself, it is 
not only probable but likely that I would have treated the 
matter with the same seriousness it has been granted else-where. It is easy to see when something wicked is making its way into the news cycle; next time, you’ll catch me in 
my bunker.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science junior. His column 
appears on Thursdays.            Greetings and salutations, Gainesville. Are you surviv-
ing the ﬁ  rst half of our summer adventure in town? Grand, if you are, because now you’re in for a treat as we deliver 
another weekly dose of...
Darts and Laurels
It seems nowadays that all anyone wants to talk about 
is who’s going to be dancing into the presidential hot seat of the United States. All we ever hear from our colleagues 
in the big news stations is Hillary that, Jeb this and 2016 
elections yadda yadda. People have forgotten the important issues, the news that matters, the issues of both a pressing and critical nature: the fact that “Jurassic World,” which 
came out last weekend, surpassed the combined powers of 
Ironman, Thor, Captain America, The Hulk, Black Widow and Hawkeye box ofﬁ  ce-opening record.
That’s no small achievement considering that Marvel 
spent nearly ﬁ  ve years hyping the hell out of The Aveng-
ers with every Marvel superhero movie of the year. But I 
guess when you’ve got the might of awesome dinosaur ac-tion roaring its way into the hearts of the 8-year-olds inside all of us, you’re packing some pretty high-quality box-ofﬁ  ce 
ﬁ  repower.
However, that alone wouldn’t be enough to receive the 
much vaulted and honored status of “props” from the Al-
ligator. We’d like to bring attention to Marvel Studios congratulating the “new box ofﬁ  ce king” in a display of 
good-natured competition by having their artist Andy Park 
illustrate the new king in all its dino glory. For being pretty cool, we’re going to award a laurel to “Jurassic World”  
for upsetting the record and one to Marvel Studios for 
being so good-natured on the matter.
But in all seriousness, whoever becomes the next presi-
dent of the United States is kind of a big deal. Like nation-building big. He or she has got to be treated with respect and proper consideration, except when we get clowns for 
our candidates.
Allow us to introduce you to Donald Trump. In an an-
nouncement that’s increasingly making the Republican 
candidate pool look like a circus show, he announced his 
campaign for presidency, declared all Mexicans to be drug 
runners or rapists, implied his status as being an incredibly wealthy man to be all the credentials he needs, expressed a medieval desire to build a big wall, and did we mention he’s plunging head ﬁ  rst into an already overﬂ  owing pool of 
Republican candidates vying for support in an already over-
ﬂ  owing hot tub of Grand Old Party-candidate announce-ments?
I mean, we know you’ve been tickling the idea of presi-
dency for decades now, Trump, but couldn’t you have made your actual announcement less of a joke? Heck, other Re-publicans don’t even really like the man, and he’s the epito-me of rich, arrogant and willing to throw a lot of money at a campaign. I wish we could say “Good Luck,” but he’s really 
only confused an already churning pool of candidates 
from the GOP, so instead we’ll throw a dart at Trump.
And in other news, Rachel Dolezal, you are not, in fact, 
black. You are not, in fact, transracial. You are also not bi-racial, and you should stop telling people you’re identifying 
as black. All right, now that we’ve established that, we’re going to just throw a dart at your biologically white ass  
and move on with our lives.
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
If you read my column last week, you 
know that I was extremely excited about the 24 Hours of Le Mans, an interna-tional endurance race held in France. Whether you follow the series or not, 
my thoughts on the results and my experi-ence viewing the race cannot be contained.
For a while there, you didn’t want to miss 
a second of this race because of the intense 
competition between the three Porsche 919 Hybrids and the three Audi R18s. Audi led for an early portion of the race, but in the 
end Porsche took ﬁ  rst and second on the 
podium. The win effectively ended Audi’s ﬁ  ve-year winning streak at Le Mans. It is Porsche’s ﬁ  rst Le Mans win since 1998, and its 17th to date.
Nissan’s highly anticipated return to Le 
Mans was rather bumpy, though not entirely unexpected as most new teams are lucky to ﬁ  nish Le Mans.
Nissan entered the race with three of the 
new GTR LM NISMOs and ﬁ  nished with one.
The team’s problems ranged from sus-
pension failure, burning through brakes, a cockpit door being stuck open and clutch is-sues. The No. 22 car managed to ﬁ  nish the race, even after it was impacted by debris. It was able to limp back to the pits sans its hood and headlights. No. 22 un-fortunately did not classify as it was 153 laps down from the lead-ing Porsche.
In general the team was un-
sure how the cars would do, but it seemed to want to use Le Mans as the ultimate testing grounds. Nis-san went through a lot during the 24 Hours, and the team and fans alike seem very proud of the ﬁ  n-ish.
Although the factory team had some set-
backs, the winning three LMP2 cars were all 
Nissan-powered. Actually, more than half of 
the LMP2 class was powered by Nissan en-gines, so one would hope they were the win-ning cars. The No. 47 KC Motorsports took ﬁ  rst, followed by the No. 38 Jota Sport and the No. 26 G-Drive Racing.
The GTE classes saw the most crashes of 
the 24 Hours beginning with the early retire-ment of the No. 63 Corvette during quali-
fying. Aston Martin saw possibly the worst 
crashes, which unfortunately caused them to lose the lead in both classes.
The No. 64 Corvette won in the GTE-
pro class, followed by the No. 71 and 51 AF Corse Ferrari. In GTE-am the No. 72 AF Corse Ferrari placed in ﬁ  rst. The retirement of the No. 98 Aston Martin led to the No. 77 Dempsey-Proton Racing (Patrick Dempsey is not the new Steve McQueen) 
Porsche 911 placing in second and 
the No. 62 Scuderia Corsa Ferrari in third.
I didn’t stay up for all 24 Hours, 
as you can probably tell from my Twitter feed, but with the excep-
tion of about six hours, I was pretty glued to the race.
Fox was the ofﬁ  cial broadcast partner 
of the 24 Hours, but I honestly didn’t even bother with it. I’m not a cable subscriber and all the friends I asked merely had basic cable, which apparently doesn’t come with Fox Sports 2.
From there I had to take some less-than-
desirable routes to properly stream the race, but when I did check into Fox 1 and 2, Le Mans was not on.
Usually trying to keep up with an endur-
ance race is a nightmare. But it seemed like both the Le Mans governing body and the teams wanted to put forward a best effort to involve the fans this year.
An extremely helpful 24 Hours app was provided by the governing body and both Nissan and Porsche had some amazing ways for fans at home (and maybe even at the race) to keep up.
Nissan provided Nismo.tv, which direct-
ed to their YouTube channel, and Porsche added a page to their global website. Both provided live streams from inside the cars and current standings in addition to some other really cool features.
For almost 24 hours I watched the race on 
my laptop with ﬁ  ve windows open. It was the ﬁ  rst time I had such an inclusive expe-rience with the in-car streams, commentary 
from radiolemans.com, EuroSport Live and 
the live Tweeting from the teams.
I would say Audi now has a pretty good 
incentive to come back to Le Mans again next year to try to win back their title. And with Toyota, Nissan and now Ford returning to motorsports, the competition just keeps getting better and better. In addition, the op-portunities for fan involvement and experi-
ence from this year has been amazing. The 
way things are going we may get to see an-other golden era of racing (Where are you Steve McQueen?)
Erika Canﬁ  jn is a UF public relations 
senior. Her columns appears on Thursdays.
An endurance race: Keeping up with the 83rd annual 24 Hours of Le MansColumn
Erika Canﬁ  jn
opinions@alligator.orgGrandilora nursery in 
Gainesville is applying8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015
Amber Flaskey / Alligator 
Firehouse Friends
Two-year-old Helen Marie Skinner smiles with her mother and a stuffed dalmatian she 
won in a rafﬂ  e at the 7th Station of the Marion County Fire Department in Fort McCoy on Wednesday. They visited the station for “Fireﬁ  ghters to the Rescue, ” an event for children to learn about the life and work of their local ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters.
who eats at the Reitz Union food court once 
a week, said finding a table during the Fall and Spring semesters is tough. 
The only tables left are usually in the 
center of the food court, which can be awk-ward to reach, he said. 
“The door I normally use isn’t in use 
anymore,” Becker said, who’s had to find alternate ways to reach the food court. 
Last week, the third floor was complete-
ly closed off along with a part of the first floor, forcing  Student Government into the 
bike repair shop on the ground floor and 
moving many of the offices into the Career Resource Center on the first floor and the basement.
The move is temporary until the begin-
ning of August, Mironack said. 
After seven weeks, the offices will re-
locate to the third floor after construction 
finishes up. 
While there is some disruption, it is be-
ing contained, he said. 
Signs were printed and posted to help 
direct traffic through the construction. 
The estimated date of completion is Dec. 
26, Daniels said. 
Daniels said Skanska, the contracting 
firm renovating the Reitz, estimated a 21-day delay, but is confident they will be able 
to make it up by working weekends and holidays.REITZ,  from pg13rd loor also under construction
marijuana will be accepted from qualifying 
nurseries until July 8, according to the De-partment of Health’s website.  
For an application, nurseries pay a non-
refundable fee of $60,063.                    
Grandiﬂ  ora nursery in Gainesville is 
ﬁ  lling out its application, which the de-partment will evaluate based on ﬁ  nancial strength and plan for growing, extracting and distributing the medical marijuana plants, said its owner and president, Alan Shapiro.
The license would make Grandiﬂ  ora 
nursery one of ﬁ  ve legal medical-marijuana 
growers in Florida.
After the recession, Shapiro said nurs-
eries were hurt, but he’s hopeful medical 
marijuana will be proﬁ  table.
“It’s certainly up our alley to grow 
plants,” he said.
Since Rick Scott signed the bill into law 
a year ago, the Department of Health has been responsible for creating rules and regu-
lations about the plant. They were unable to 
move forward with distributing applications to eligible nurseries until the end of May, 
when Judge David Watkins ruled against a 
plant nursery that opposed how the depart-ment would be awarding licenses.  
According to the health department’s 
website, nurseries will be able to grow 
plants with a THC level of 0.8 percent or less. This ensures users won’t get high. The CBD level 
has to be above 10 per-
cent, which will allow it to combat seizures. The law covers the medicine in pill form.  
This form of medical 
marijuana is particularly important because it beneﬁ  ts children, said Brandon Harvey, president of UF’s National Organizations for 
the Reform of Marijuana Laws.
“That just makes it an easy sell for politi-
cians to pass a bill,” the 21-year-old UF neu-
roscience senior said.
Moseley said she doesn’t want people to 
lose sight of the bill’s purpose, which isn’t helping the economy.
“It’s about helping improve kids’ quality 
of life,” she said.WEED,  from pg1
wheels, handlebar, seat and frame must be present — are auctioned off, Fuller said.
Junk bicycles, ones missing more than 
three parts, are recycled after 45 days in stor-age, he added. 
“We look at this as a necessary thing,” 
he said. 
Rusting frames are a trip hazard and can 
leave a bad impression on the space they oc-cupy, he said. David Dykes, senior property manager at 
UF Surplus, said they’ve hosted online auc-
tions at surplus.uﬂ  .edu since 2004. 
Seven bicycles are sold per lot, Dykes 
said. Prices start at $40 per lot and go from 
there. 
If a person bids and wins a lot, they take 
home all seven bicycles, Holcomb said. 
“Good or bad, you own them if you buy 
them,” Holcomb said. He suggested students register their bicycles to receive notiﬁ  cation 
if their bicycle is accidentally picked up.Junk bicycles are recycled 
after 45 days in storage
BIKE,  from pg1Scott
Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
GNV’s newest arcade bar opens, is a hit
The yet-to-be-named bar has been referred to as  the “barcade” by its regulars, pg. 12What’s inside: 
Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game: Sense8 edition, pg. 10The Avenue reviews “Jurassic World, ” pg. 11By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
Cory Branan, who has been heralded as 
one of the most talented musicians in his in-
dustry, is performing in Gainesville on Sunday.
The singer-songwriter, who was named one of Rolling Stone’s 10 New Country Artists You Need to Know in 2014, will be performing at High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave. Doors will open at 8 p.m. and tickets can be 
purchased for $12 at the door or $10 in ad-
vance on ticketﬂ  y.com.
Pat Lavery, owner of Glory Days Presents, said Branan is a highly acclaimed songwriter.
“Chuck Ragan, of Gainesville’s Hot Water 
Music, called him the greatest songwriter of 
our generation,” Lavery said. “That’s saying 
a lot.”
This is Branan’s ﬁ  rst time playing at High 
Dive, but certainly not his ﬁ  rst time playing in 
Gainesville. While Branan has performed in 
numerous cities across the nation during his career, he said he always enjoys coming into town.
“I like Gainesville,” Branan said. “I’ve got 
a lot of good friends from there so I’m always stoked when I get back around.”
Branan describes his style as folk, but tries 
not to limit himself musically, recognizing that 
he holds a broad deﬁ  nition of what can be con-
sidered folk.
While his songs have a distinct country 
twang, his overall style is too edgy and raw for mainstream country.
“American is what it’s supposed to be. 
That’s what American music is, you know,” Branan said. “It’s a gigantic f***ing mixtape. That’s the idea for me.”
The singer said he is constantly adding to 
what he calls his “grab bag of music.”
“I’m always learning ﬂ  atpicking and cross 
picking and all kind of things trying to add to it,” Branan said.
At about the age of 12 or 13, the singer be-
gan playing guitar. At the time, he would play for whatever band would have him.
It wasn’t until his 20s that he took a leap in 
his career by writing his own songs. That was when he began playing folk and ﬁ  ngerpicking on guitar.
“That’s a big part of my shows, a lot of 
blues-based stuff.”
Now, the singer has been playing music for 
15 years.
“I always knew that I sort of wanted to play 
music for the rest of my life,” Branan said. “But 
I didn’t know that it was going to be a career or 
anything like that.”
With his mix of humility and conﬁ  dence, 
he jokes that he still doesn’t know from day to day.
The artist recently shot a music video in 
3-D and will have 3-D glasses at his upcoming show. He said he thinks it’s pretty cool.
He also emphasized the importance of put-
ting on a great live show and giving fans their money’s worth.
“Just make it count every time,” Branan 
said. “Leave a little bit of blood on the stage.”THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
Singer-songwriter Cory Branan will perform at 8 p.m. on Sunday at High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave. “I like 
Gainesville, ” Branan said. “I’ve got a lot of good friends from there so I’m always stoked when I get back around. ”Folk singer-songwriter Cory Branan to play at High Dive
3-D glasses available at show
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
Daytime-television star Judith 
Chapman has returned to Gainesville 
to lead the production of Santa Fe College’s rendition of “Invasion of Privacy.”
The play premieres at 7:30 p.m. 
tonight at the Santa Fe Fine Arts Hall, located at 3000 NW 83rd St.
Chapman, director in the Mas-
ter Artist Series, is no stranger to Gainesville. In 2013, she starred in Santa Fe’s production of “Vivian,” a one-woman play that was based on the story of Vivian Leigh.
Cultural Programs coordinator 
Kathryn Lehman wrote a grant to support the ﬁ  nances to bring the play to Santa Fe, Department Chair of Fine Arts Alora Haynes said. 
“(This is) very relevant to our 
community, history, social issues, women’s issues, legal issues,” Hayes wrote in an email, “and the play-wright Larry Parr will be in atten-dance Thursday 
night.”
The notable 
play has signiﬁ  -cant meaning to Alachua County history. It’s based on the infamous 
lawsuit between Pulitzer Prize win-ner Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings and her friend Zelma Cason.“Cason’s lawsuit pitted a citizen’s 
right of privacy against an author’s constitutional guarantee of free speech,” wrote the Santa Fe College 
Times.
The lawsuit eventually gained 
international attention and is still 
prominent in Alachua County to this day.
Now, Chapman brings the slice of 
history to life with a California-based cast carefully selected to ﬁ  ll the roles of these historical ﬁ  gures. The cast features Gina Bikales, the artistic director of Script2Stage2Screen. Bi-kales will play Marjorie in a reprise of an award-winning performance in 
“Invasion of Privacy.”
The play will host two other 
show dates at 7:30 p.m. on Friday 
and Saturday. Tickets are $15 for adult orchestra and mezzanine seats, $12 for balcony seats and $9 for stu-dents, seniors and faculty and staff. Tickets can be purchased at the box ofﬁ  ce and at sfcollege.edu/ﬁ  nearts.
Santa Fe College premieres ‘Invasion of Privacy’ tonight
THEATRE
Chapman
THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015
IT HIT $208.8 MILLION
By Kelsey Bona
Avenue Writer
The premise of the entire Jurassic 
Park franchise and its new record-
setting addition “Jurassic World” can be summed up in a brief statement uttered by one of the ﬁ  lm’s minor 
characters: “These people, they never 
learn.”
The newest installment, which pre-
miered 22 years after its original pre-decessor, features a revamped theme park that wrangles in tourists each year with its dinosaur-esque attrac-tions. Even though the park appears to be booming, the manager, Claire (Bryce Howard), convinces her staff that nobody is awed by dinosaurs anymore. The lack of interest is exempliﬁ  ed by Claire’s 
visiting nephew, Zach (Nick 
Robinson), a hormonal teen who is accompanied by his excited little brother, Gray (Ty Simpkins). However, the disinterest is enough for the park run-ners to whip up a dangerous hybrid dinosaur to spike attendance. This corporate greed goes horribly wrong, of course, and Velociraptor trainer Owen (Chris Pratt) gets pitted against the impossibly intelligent crossbreed, Indominus rex.
While “Jurassic World” can 
hardly compete with the be-
loved ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm of the series, 
it succeeds as a fun sequel. 
The action sequences are enrapturing, and the CGI 
effects turn out to be an ac-
ceptable inclusion rather than a 
distraction. That being said, the dino-saurs hold up much better than the humans. The ﬁ  lm is cluttered with poor writing and characterization. Not even Pratt’s usual charm can sal-vage his stagnant arc and the unwar-ranted tear-fest of the female charac-ters. The only thing to root for is the demise of the humans, and in that regard, the movie tends to deliver.
Director Colin Trevorrow did bring 
back some level of sincerity to the franchise. He pays homage to Spiel-berg’s original classic by utilizing old sets and recycling the nostalgic soundtrack. An introduced relation-ship between Pratt’s character and the dinosaurs, while cheesy, does tread on some needed earnestness. Old themes are also toyed with, as the movie assesses itself as being just as much a product of greed as the theme park it portrays — yet, the ﬁ  lm’s end-less product placements don’t nec-essarily suggest anti-capitalist senti-ments.
Notwithstanding the unlikable 
characters and their forced relation-ships, the movie is an entertaining killing spree done right. The chaos overshadows the ﬁ  lm’s shortcom-ings and makes for a worthy summer blockbuster, and given its phenom-enal box ofﬁ  ce results, another sequel can be expected where people will still never learn.
Box oﬃ   ce hit ‘Jurassic World’ succeeds as a fun sequel
By Lauren Blakely
Avenue Writer
Take a sip when…
 One of the sensates drinks
 You are confused
 The show switches points of 
view
 A sensate gets emotional at 
an inconvenient time
 Two sensates meet for the 
ﬁ  rst timeTake a shot when…
 Nomi interrupts someone
 A character stands up against 
a social justice
 A character gets their heart 
broken
Finish your drink when…
 A character dies
 A couple breaks up
 You ﬁ  nish the season and 
realize youʼve given your 
soul to yet another TV showNow that you’ve successfully 
had your heart broken by watching the third season of “Orange Is the New Black” in one weekend, you can ﬁ  ll the void only a television 
show can ﬁ  ll with another Netﬂ  ix 
Original, “Sense8.”
The show is penned and pro-
duced by the Wachowski siblings, who brought you ﬁ  lms like the Ma-trix series, “V for Vendetta,” “Speed Racer” and most recently, “Jupiter Ascending.” Lana Wachowski, one half of the duo, has received a vis-ibility award for her open transition from Larry to Lana and continues 
to use writing as a means of trans-
gender representation.
The series, which tackles real-
life issues and pressures of modern society, is centered around eight people, known as sensates, who begin to experience everything the others do. 
With the world being seen 
through the show’s diverse group of characters from around the 
world, there is no lack of repre-
sentation and identiﬁ  cation. Add in love interests, familial problems and an excess of dramatic ﬂ  air and you have your latest obsession
Happy drinking! NETFLIX’S SENSE812   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015
SOME PATRONS REFER TO 
THE YET-TO-BE-NAMED BAR 
AS THE “BARCADE”
By Calli Rudman
Avenue Writer
What do you get when you combine 
three ﬂ  oors of arcade games, two com-
plete bars and comfortable lounge seat-
ing? Gainesville’s latest arcade bar.
The yet-to-be-named arcade bar, locat-
ed at 6 E. University Ave., opened May 
5 and has already been more successful 
than expected, said Chad Darby, a bar-
tender at the bar.
“We haven’t ofﬁ  cially advertised yet 
because we don’t even have a name for the place,” he said.
The bar shares the same owners as The 
Top, where Darby worked for more than nine years before working at the arcade bar.
It features games such as skee-ball, pinball and foosball priced between 25 cents to $1 per game. The ﬁ  rst and second ﬂ  oor are open Monday through Saturday 
from 4 p.m. to 2 a.m., and the third ﬂ  oor 
is open from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. All custom-ers must be 21 or older to enter.
Preslie Martin, 21, said the bar’s afford-
able drinks attracted her and her friends multiple times since its opening. Martin, 
who works at the Five Bar downtown, 
said she goes after work with her cowork-ers. They refer to it as the “barcade.”
“My favorite game to play at the bar-
cade is skee-ball,” Martin said. “I am not 
very good at video games but everyone is 
good at skee-ball.”GNV’s new arcade bar 
opens downtown, is a hit
Restaurant Week Kick-off
Gainesville Regional Airport 
3880 NE 39th Ave.
5 p.m. | Price $5/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   
THURSDAY, JUNE 18
WHAT’S HAPPENING OVER THE BREAK
“My favorite game to play at the 
barcade is skee-ball. I am not very 
good at video games but everyone is 
good at skee-ball.”
Preslie Martin
patronArt Attack! 
High Dive
210 SW Second Ave.
7 p.m. | Free EventFRIDAY, JUNE 19
A Midsummer Night’s Dream
Hippodrome State Theatre 
25 SE Second Place
1 p.m. | Price $20SATURDAY, JUNE 20‘A Film About Coffee’
Opus Coffee | Free Event
1515 SW Archer Road
Event 6 p.m., Film 7:45 p.m.SATURDAY, JUNE 20
Ceremony, T ony Molina, 
Wildhoney, Frameworks
The Atlantic Nightspot | 8 p.m.
Advance $12, Door $14SUNDAY, JUNE 21
Summer Jam 5 Music Festival
High Dive | 7 p.m.
210 SW Second Ave.
Advance $7, Door $10FRIDAY, JUNE 26THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    7-2-15-36-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
EFFICIENCY APT. facing woods, in NW, pri-vate home, separate entrance, large bath, no pet, quiet mature person only. All utilities paid, $550. Call 352-395-6250 or 332-1429 Kathy    6-30-15-5-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Furnished 2BR/2BA w/walk-in closets avail. in 4BR/4BA at Countryside. Rent $400/rm/mo. Utilities, cable, internet, and washer/dryer included. Mature, coed roommates. Bus rts. 9, 35. Call 786-385-2839 7-30-12-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    6-18-15-57-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1600/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    6-30-15-44-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   6-18-15-20-2
**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
1, 2, 3 and 4 bedroom houses & apart-ments available for August. All near UF and Downtown. * CALL 870-2760 *    7-2-15-16-2
Apt for rent. Near Shands. 3300 SW 23rd St, Apt #2. 1BR/1BA w/ large screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. $545/mo + $700 sec. Pets ok. 352-371-3473, leave message.   7-9-15-16-2
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATIONFall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2TEN BEDROOM HOUSE!! Live with nine of your friends but don't be responsible for their rent! Double living rooms, washer/dryer sets and fridges! Lots of off street parking and walk to campus, completely renovated in fall 2014, this house is AMAZING! Call Campus Realty 352-692-3800    6-30-15-11-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, hardwood floors, W/D
$675/mo 352-505-5049    6-30-15-9-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of
parking!      $700/mo. 352-505-5049
www.crosskeysproperties.com    6-30-15-9-2
Walk to UF--Sorority Row Area!
3BR/1BA $1100/mo.
352-505-5049       6-30-15-5-2
Clean 2BR/1BA home in quiet NW area available now or Aug. Tile floors, CH/A,W/D, large detached carport/workshop. $890/mo Call/text Anita: 352-575-4395 Email 3230house@cozygator.com. 6-30-15-5-2
4BR/4BA COUNTRYSIDE at the University condo. Furnished common area, plenty of free parking, next to pool, near bus rte. $350/mo/room. Includes all utils, cable, internet. Call 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031   7-2-15-5-2
1 BR/ 1 BA Apt - Wifi, washer, and dryer included. Granite counter tops. Nice com-
munity close to Archer, UF main campus and Shands. With 3 bus routes. Call 407-697-1571    7-9-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!2 female Roommates, nonsmokers with no pets, to share a 3BR/2BA condo near UF on bus route, close to shopping , furnished living, dining areas with fully fitted kitchen and laundry, bedrooms have queen bed with study desk, $500 per month per room inc. utilities, TV/Internet. Call 208-5896261 for immediate occupation.    6-30-15-5-4
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1ST1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    7-2-15-5-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
20 Acres $0 Down, $128/mo.Owner Financing.Money Back Guarantee!Near El Paso, TXBeautiful Mountain ViewsFree Color Brochure  Call 800-343-9444         6-18-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-17-15-14-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
Timed Online AuctionBidding starts: 6/24 @ 10amBidding Closes: 7/1 @ 10am100 Montaditos Restaurant Equip. (well-maintained, very good condition) Large Variety: Keg coolers, refrigerators, freezers, ice makers, slicers, pizza ovens, electronic menu board sys., prep tables, counters & much more! 13% BP100M Waterford LLC Case #15-14066-BKC-AJC www.moeckerauctions.com / (800) 840-BIDS    AB-1098  AU-3219, Eric Rubin    6-18-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales andScooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   8-17-25-11
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-1298 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $1900
95 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $1300
88 HONDA CIVIC $1250
00 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250
352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13
WANTED: ACOUSTIC BASS
for student. Ok if needs repair. Please call Mr 
Greene 352-473-0646    6-18-15-4-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 WantedHeadline
Story description Pg#THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
Facing a 1-2 count in the ﬁ  rst in-
ning, Harrison Bader stepped into 
the batter’s box, twirled his bat and set his feet. 
The fastball from Miami’s right-
hander Enrique Sosa entered the strike zone at Bader’s knees, but 
after one swing, the ball landed 
414 feet away, over the center ﬁ  eld 
fence.
It was the start of a historic day 
for Florida, one that saw the Gators 
hit the three longest home runs in 
the College World Series since it 
moved to TD Ameritrade Park in 
2011.
After a bounce-back offensive 
game and a solid outing from fresh-
man right-hander Alex Faedo, No. 
4 national seed Florida (51-17) de-feated No. 5 national seed Miami (50-17) 10-2 in the third round of 
the College World Series Wednes-
day night. With the win, UF elimi-
nated UM from the CWS.
“At this point in the game, 
you’re ﬁ  ghting for your life,” Bader 
said. “You have to lay it out there, 
every pitch and every inning. That’s just what we did and that’s what our approach was. It worked 
out for us tonight.”Faedo allowed three hits and 
two runs through ﬁ  ve innings and 
struck out seven batters in his ﬁ  rst CWS appearance. Left-hander 
Kirby Snead took over in the sixth 
inning, and provided three score-less innings with struck out three batters.
“I though Alex pitched like a 
veteran,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “And in these elimination games, it’s important to build some momentum early on, and I thought we did that.
Bader, Buddy Reed, Richie Mar-
tin and Peter Alonso tallied one home run each for the Gators. Reed ﬁ  nished with a game-high three RBIs and two hits, while Bader and 
Martin both ﬁ  nished with multiple 
hits. Florida ﬁ  nished with a .341 
batting average and limited Miami to .129.
After Bader’s leadoff home run 
in the ﬁ  rst inning, Buddy Reed fol-lowed with a two-run homer two outs later to give the Gators a 3-0 lead.
Florida was held scoreless 
through the next three innings, but took a 4-0 lead in the ﬁ  fth after Josh Tobias singled to third base. After JJ Schwarz moved Martin to third after a ﬂ  y-out, Reed reached ﬁ  rst base after a bunt, scoring Mar-tin. Next, Alonso popped up to center ﬁ  eld, and Jeremy Vasquez doubled down the right ﬁ  eld line, scoring Reed and Tobias.
Martin hit a solo homer to right 
ﬁ  eld in the sixth inning to give the Gators an 8-0 lead.
Miami scored its lone runs in 
the bottom of the sixth after Da-vid Thompson reached second on a Martin throwing error, scoring George Iskenderian and Christo-pher Barr.
Florida tacked on two more runs 
in the seventh inning after Alonso 
The Alligator will not print during the break between Summer A andSummer B, but we will continue topublish stories online at alligator.org.Our next print edition is June 30.Freshman Brooke Austin was named to the 2015 USTA Collegiate National T eam on Wednesday. Austin is the only freshman named to the team.
Track and Field jumper honored
Senior Marquis Dendy was named the USTFCCCA Outdoor National Field
Athlete of the Year on Wednesday, the association announced. Dendy was also named the Indoor National Field Athlete of the Year earlier this season. By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
 
For the ﬁ  fth consecutive year, a former 
Gator has helped capture an NBA Cham-
pionship.
David Lee and Marreese Speights 
helped the Golden State Warriors down 
the Cleveland Cavaliers in the NBA Finals, 
which ended with a 105-97 Game 6 victory 
in Cleveland on Tuesday night.
Lee, a ﬁ  rst round pick by the New York 
Knicks in 2005, accepted a reduced role this season as the Warriors inserted Dray-
mond Green into the starting lineup in 
training camp.
With the emergence of Green, the War-
riors seem content with letting Lee, who 
has one year remaining on the six-year, $80 million deal he signed in 2010, leave 
the NBA Champions for a new home next season.
Lee told the NBA Insiders on ESPN Ra-
dio following Game 1 of the Finals that “it’s been a really interesting year” for the 
32-year-old power for-ward.
“I’ve actually gotten 
to see kind of the other side of the NBA,” Lee 
said. 
“I’ve always been the 
guy that’s out there for 35 to 40 minutes. I’ve 
never really, I don’t think, had the true respect for guys ... to see guys that don’t get a chance to play very often and come 
out and produce on a consistent basis — I 
never knew how difﬁ  cult that was.”Former Gators win NBA
Championship with Warriors
Lee
AIRJORDAN
Buddy Reed has all the 
qualities a baseball coach looks for in a center ﬁ  elder.
He has top-notch 
instincts, a crucial talent be-
cause of the vast amount of 
ground he’s tasked with cov-ering.
He makes the most difﬁ  cult 
plays look routine, diving for 
balls that seem out of reach to the naked 
eye or smashing his body against the cen-ter-ﬁ  eld wall to rob a home run.
And most importantly he’s fast, a trait 
you can’t teach.
This year — Reed’s sophomore season 
with the Gators — Reed has taken advan-tage of his speed, and he has quickly be-come one of the top defensive center ﬁ  eld-
ers in college baseball.
In the outﬁ  eld, Reed has committed just three ﬁ  elding errors in 152 
chances, good for a .980 ﬁ  eld-ing percentage. He’s able to 
throw the ball to home plate 
from mid-center ﬁ  eld — about 300 feet at McKethan Stadium — with ease.
He was the only UF player 
named to the Southeastern Conference All-Defense team (even though Josh Tobias 
should have also been on there, but I’ll 
save that argument for another column).
“I feel good about where he is defen-
sively,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said 
prior to the College World Series. “He’s 
good to his left, good to his right, good 
coming in on a ball and good going back on a ball. He’s one of the main reasons we’re playing such good defense this year.”Reed Speed: Outﬁ  elder crucial for UF
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 19AP Photo
Florida's Harrison Bader (8) celebrates his solo home run against Miami with teammates at the dugout, 
in the ﬁ  rst inning of Florida's 10-2 win at TD Ameritrade Park in Omaha, Nebraska on Wednesday.
'AT THIS POINT, YOU'RE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE'
UF downs Miami 10-2, still in CWS
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 20
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19  
While defense has been 
Reed’s biggest strength, he’s 
flashed potential at the plate.
And his speed has been a 
factor there, too.
The Finksburg, Maryland, 
native leads Florida with 86 
hits this season, with 23 going 
for extra bases. He has 18 sto-
len bases — second only to ju-
nior and first-round draft pick Richie Martin’s 20 — and has beaten out infield hits on nu-
merous occasions.
During the UF’s 10-0 win 
against Arkansas in the SEC 
tournament, ESPN clocked Reed at 3.9 seconds down the 
first-base line as he beat out a 
slow-rolling ball hit to the sec-ond baseman in the fourth in-ning.“It’s crazy,” sophomore 
teammate Peter Alonso said. “There’s really nothing more to say.”
Now that the Gators are still 
alive in College World Series play following their 10-2 romp-ing of Miami in the elimina-
tion game, UF has to keep the 
momentum going if it has any hope of winning its first na-tional title in program history.
Florida needs to win two 
straight against Virginia — a team that took a 1-0 victory over the Gators on Monday — to advance to the champion-
ship series.
It's a quick turnaround for 
the Gators.
But with a player as quick 
as Reed — in the outfield, at the plate and on the basepaths 
— they have a chance to break through.COLUMN,  from pg 17Reed stellar on defense, 
striding on offense
Javier Fernandez / Courtesy to the Alligator
Florida's Buddy Reed runs toward first base during the Gators' 15-3 victory against Miami in the NCAA 
College World Series on Saturday at TD Ameritrade Park in Omaha, Nebraska. THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, Fl
Cook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
Alarm dispatcher neededpart-time weeknights/weekends. Must be able to pass a background check. Email resume to applications@cpss.net    7-2-15-14-14GESTATIONAL SURROGATE
1 yr room & board + $500/mo + health ins.   
Prefer 20-38 Healthy + had at least 1  baby. 
Open to offers. TEXT ONLY-305 582 9800   
7-9-15-14-14
DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, withgood customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT - IMMEDIATE
$8.10/hr, flex hrs, 20 hrs min. Word typing 
skills, Excel a plus. CV & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com  7-14-15-
10-14
Kelly Services hiring event June 24th, 8am to 
Noon.  Now hiring administrative  profession -
als, medical administrative assistants and secretaries. Call 352-335-7800 for location and more info. 6-18-15-4-14
$20/hr + FLA travel expenses Paid intern-ship (communications) 6 months Journalism degree or journalism student Articulate news media writing & interviewing Professional appearance & speaking skills Direct phone interview: 904-735-4268       6-30-15-5-14
MATH TUTOR for middle/high school
students. Flexible hours. Salary
commensurate with experience.
Send CV with cover page highlighting
math teaching experience and any degree(s)
 to: rosenson@ufl.edu
6-30-15-4-14
PRN office/home cleaner needed paying $8/hr...must have cleaning experience,own a car,able to pass a drug/background check..please contact Caleitha @ 352-214-0868 if interested and qualified    6-30-15-4-14
BEST BUY
Now hiring PT in:
-Mobile Sales
-Asset Protection
-Home Theater
Competitive pay, flexible hours
Apply Online @
www.bestbuy-jobs.com
Direct all questions/resumes to:
Tatum.Rhoads@bestbuy.com
8-18-15-1-14University of Florida, Agricultural & Biological Engineering Department, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences in Gainesville, FL is seeking a Computer Research Specialist 2 to be responsible for a broad range of research support for the Agricultural Model Intercomparison and Improvement Program (AgMIP, www.agmip.org). Duties include development and implementation of proce-dures for capture, storage and dissemination of information related to modeling activities for climate change impact assessment on the global agricultural sector.  The position will involve work with an international team of research professionals to accomplish the goals of the project. Some international travel will be required. The successful can-didate may be required to demonstrate and teach research professionals to utilize data applications designed for the project. The successful applicant will be expected to teach researchers in South Asia, East Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa the principles and practice of AgMIP Data Interoperability stan-dards. This will likely require 1-3 international trips per year to these regions, in addition to the annual Global AgMIP Workshop, held in a different location each year.
Position requires a Master's degree in 
Information Systems and Operations Management, Business, Engineering or a Computer Science related field; or a Bachelor's degree in Information Systems and Operations Management, Business, Engineering or a Computer Science related field and two years of appropriate experi -
ence. Position also requires candidate to be able to break down complex concepts into simple, explainable segments to report to others in an international community; have a high level knowledge of maintenance and troubleshooting procedures; be familiar with programming languages associated with the Java Virtual Machine such as Java, JavaScript, Groovy, Scala, JRuby or Jython; have proven work experience in design of web-based interfaces for data management systems; and have a working understanding of managing code with version control sys-tems and issue tracking systems.
To apply, please submit applications on 
https://jobs.ufl.edu/.     6-18-1-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    6-18-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    6-18-1-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE    6-18-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-14-25-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-
25-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service
24 hrs a day. Reservations available.
Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    6-18-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    6-18-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    6-18-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-16-173-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    6-18-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!
Rated 5-Star on Google Play!
Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Designated drivers are the greatestBecause Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
20 Event Notices 23 Rides 24 Pets18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015
him a two-run homer to center field.
"Baseball is a game of failure, you're not always 
gonna succeed," Reed said. "We came out really 
good against Miami in the first game and then lost 
a tough one to (Virginia). But we stayed confident."
Next, Florida will play Virginia on Friday, where 
they will need to beat the Cavaliers twice to advance 
to the CWS finals. 
Sophomore right-handed pitcher Logan Shore (10-
6, 2.55 ERA) will draw the start for the Gators. 
If Florida wins the first game, the deciding match 
will be played on Saturday. "I think the biggest thing was just to stay within ourselves and just take care of business," Bader said. "We're at a stage now where we're fighting for our lives. ... .and we're just going to try to carry that momentum into Friday against 
Virginia."
Notes : For the second time this postseason, Har-
rison Bader hit a leadoff home run in the first inning. 
Since moving to the leadoff spot after Dalton Guthrie 
injured his hand during the Southeastern Conference Tournament, Bader has tallied 10 runs, 10 hits and 12 RBIs through eight games… Florida has now won 
11 of its last 12 games, its best stretch since winning 
18 straight during the 2012 regular season… Since 
beginning the NCAA Tournament, the Gators have outscored their opponents 78-18…. When UF scores at least nine runs, it is 23-1 this season…Florida has 
now won 21 of its last 26 meetings against Miami… 
UF’s win over UM marked the first game in TD 
Ameritrade park history where a game has featured at least three home runs by one team… Florida hit more home runs (4) on Wednesday than were hit in 
either of the last two CWS.20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 2015
AP Photo
Florida's Peter Alonso (20) celebrates his two-run home run with Harrison Bader (8) in the seventh inning of Florida's 
10-2 win against Miami on Wednesday at TD Ameritrade Park in Omaha, Nebraska.
BASEBALL,  from pg 17Florida has to beat Virginia twice to advance to CWS Finals