We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 152 THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015
UF seniors ﬁ  rst in program history 
with multiple titles
All six players in the class made an impact 
during their time with the Gators, pg 17.
UF seniors ﬁ  rst in program history 
Sue the dinosaur breaks museum visitor record
There have been more than 35,000 visitors, pg 5.
Build-your-own pasta restaurant 
comes to Midtown
It’s where How do you Roll? used to be, pg 8.Reptiles ﬁ  nd new home in sanctuary
Devin Wheeler and Mitra Snyder are the owners of 
Second Chance Reptile Sanctuary in Starke, pg 4.
FLORIDA 4 MICHIGAN 1
STILL ON TOP
By Katrina Alvarez
Alligator Contributing Writer
After almost two years of working at the 
UF’s Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, 
Director Olivia Garcia plans to return to her hometown of El Paso, Texas.
Garcia will be going to the University of 
Texas at El Paso to work at their graduate school.
Her last day is today, and ambassadors 
and staff of the Institute hosted a going-away party for Garcia on Wednesday.
During her time as director, the staff of 
the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, also known as La Casita, has tripled.
Garcia was also responsible for fundrais-ing more than $10,000 to increase La Casita’s operating budget and sat on UF’s board of directors for the Multicultural & Diversity Stu-dent Affairs division.
“As the director of Hispanic-Latino Cul-
tures, my job is to promote safety, commu-nity and inclusion on a predominately white campus,” Garcia said.
During Garcia’s term as director, Joselin 
Padron-Rasines, a former ambassador for MCDA, became Student Body president at UF.
“Through La Casita, as a person it made 
me more aware about issues that impacted the Hispanic-Latino community,” Padron-Rasines said, “and it made me stronger and Director of Hispanic-Latino 
Cultures leaves Gainesville, UF
SEE DIRECTOR,  PAGE 3THE PANAMA CITY BEACH 
POLICE DEPARTMENT CLOSED 
ITS INVESTIGATION THURSDAY.
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
 
UF and Emory University Zeta Beta Tau fra-
ternity members who reportedly harassed and spit on veterans at a retreat in Panama City Beach will not face criminal charges. 
The Panama City Police Department looked 
into allegations of simple battery, petit theft, criminal mischief and launching a deadly mis-sile, according to a 22-page report the depart-ment released Tuesday after closing its month-long investigation on Thursday. 
Members of the UF or Emory University 
ZBT chapters were at the Laketown Wharf in Panama City Beach for their spring formal on April 17 and 18, according to the report. 
The Warrior Beach Retreat — a nonproﬁ  t 
corporation founded by Linda Cope in 2009 as an outlet for combat soldiers wounded in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars — also held one of 
its biannual retreats at the Laketown Wharf 
during that time frame, according to the report. 
Some of the fraternity members, Cope said 
in the report, threw objects off a balcony, re-moved or stole American ﬂ  ags and obstructed access to elevators, among other things. 
However, because the department was un-
able to establish probable cause or positively identify suspects despite talking with witnesses 
and victims at the scene, no arrests or charges 
are being made, according to the report.  
UF closed its ZBT chapter on April 28 in a 
joint decision with the national ZBT chapter once reports about the incident surfaced.By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
Tim Walton knew a repeat 
wasn’t going to be easy.
“Coming off a national champi-
onship, the target’s on your back,” he said on May 20, days before 
NCAA Super Regionals. “It’s easy 
to go through and think, ‘oh hey, we’re gonna do it again,’ and I don’t think we’ve prepared that way.”
Walton’s preparation worked, as 
No. 1 seed Florida (60-7) defeated third-seeded Michigan (60-8) 4-1 on Wednesday to clinch UF’s sec-ond national championship in two 
years.
“I don’t even know what to 
think right now, I’m just so happy,” 
Lauren Haeger said. “I’m so proud of my teammates and how hard we worked. I’m so thankful to have coach Walton behind us that whole time.”
Florida became just the third 
school in history to win back-to-back titles (Arizona – three times, UCLA – four times) since the NCAA Women’s College World Series’ in-ception in 1982.
Walton entrusted the biggest 
game of the season to his ace – Lau-ren Haeger. The Peoria, Arizona, native didn’t disappoint.
Haeger tossed seven innings, al-lowing one earned run while strik-ing out ﬁ  ve in the win. The senior 
didn’t allow a hit until the ﬁ  fth in-
ning.
“She’s the National Player of the 
Year,” Walton said. “She’s the best, and now she’s a national champion as well. [I’m] really proud of her.”
Florida gained a mass of mo-
mentum in the ﬁ  rst inning, scoring three runs.
Kelsey Stewart was drilled in the 
kneecap to lead off the inning, and Nicole DeWitt laid down a bunt. Michigan went to second on the play, but Stewart was safe.
Then, Haeger ﬂ  ared a clutch RBI 
single up the middle to take a 1-0 lead. Haeger ﬁ  nished the WCWS 5-for-7 with four RBIs and was 
named the WCWS Most Outstand-
ing Player.
Two batters later, junior Taylor 
Schwarz unleashed a single into shallow left ﬁ  eld that scored DeWitt and Haeger, pushing the lead to 3-0. The two RBIs were just Schwarz’s 13th and 14th of the season.
The Gators tacked on a run in 
the second inning as well.
Sophomore Justine McLean 
chopped a ground ball to the UM third baseman Lindsay Montema-rano who overthrew the ﬁ  rst base-man, allowing McLean to reach second.
One batter later, Stewart laced a double to left to plate McLean and bring Florida’s lead to 4-0.
Michigan ﬁ  nally put a run up on 
the board in the ﬁ  fth inning.
After two one-out singles, Sierra 
Romero sat on a changeup and shot back up the middle to score a run and cut Florida’s lead to 4-1.
But the Wolverines couldn’t 
muster any more runs the rest of the game, as Haeger worked a scoreless sixth and seventh innings.
With two outs in the top of the 
seventh, Haeger induced Kelly 
Christner into the game-ending 
groundout to Schwarz at ﬁ  rst base.
“It’s the best thing that’s ever 
happened to me right now,” Haeger said.
The Gators began their cham-
pionship season with 28 straight wins, extending the school record they set this year when they earned 
their 25th win against Arizona on 
March 6.
Florida’s win streak came to a 
screeching halt in a home series against LSU. The Tigers took the last two games of the series on March 14 and March 15, serving Florida its ﬁ  rst two losses of the year.
“We’re a good team and it’s 
probably good for us to have that experience early on in the season,” catcher Aubree Munro said the fol-lowing week. “It’s something bet-ter to experience now than later in postseason, and now we know how 
No members of ZBT chargedSEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 20AP Photo
Florida pitcher Lauren Haeger, right, celebrates with catcher 
Aubree Munro at the end of UF’s 4-1 win against Michigan on Wednesday to win the Gators’ second consecutive national title.
Gators win second titleSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 152
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Friday Night Swing Dancing at 
the MUB
Do you have mad dancing skills? Or do you want mad dancing skills? 
The Florida Swing Dancing Club 
invites you and your friends out to our weekly dance every Friday. We will have a free lesson for be-ginners and intermediates, open to everyone! No partner or expe-rience needed. Lessons are from 8 to 9 p.m. and the dance is from 9 to 11 p.m. at the UF School of 
Music, Room 121. For more in-
formation find us on Facebook: facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/.
Florida’s Global Kitchen
Celebrate Florida’s diverse food history at the Matheson History Museum’s new Florida’s Global Kitchen exhibit, which will run 
through July 30. The Matheson 
History Museum will showcase artifacts, recipes and stories that highlight Florida’s food culture, which is one of the most di-verse food cultures in the world. Take a step into the kitchen of Pulitzer Prize-winning au-thor Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, 
which the Matheson will recreate 
using artifacts on loan from her Cross Creek home. As the au-thor of “The Yearling,” Rawlings brought the Florida frontier into the lives of people around the world. Additionally, as the au-thor of “Cross Creek Cookery” she brought “Cracker” cooking 
onto dinner plates around the 
country. The Matheson Museum is open from 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday. For more information, call 352-378-2280 or email info@mathe-sonmuseum.org. The exhibit is free.
World Sea Turtle Day Celebration
Celebrate World Sea Turtle Day on June 20 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Florida Museum of Natural History with the Sea Turtle Conservancy. Children 
and families are invited to tour 
the museum’s sea turtle exhibit with staff from the Sea Turtle Conservancy. The free event features sea turtle specimens, a turtle library and stickers and bookmarks for all kids. Children also may create fun crafts to take home, meet sea turtle scientists 
and play turtle trivia for a chance 
to win a cool prize. Visitors will also have the opportunity to speak with researchers from the UF Archie Carr Center for Sea Turtle Research about sea turtle conservation and careers in ma-rine biology.
‘Butterfly Senses’ in the Butterfly 
RainforestDo butterflies really taste with their feet and smell using their antennae? Visit the Butterfly Rainforest exhibit at the Florida Museum of Natural History through June 30 to discover more about a butterfly’s senses. Daily 
butterfly releases are held at 2 
p.m. with additional weekend releases at 3 and 4 p.m., weather permitting. UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card receive free admission year-round.
Blue Star Museums
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is offering free admission 
to all fee-based exhibits for ac-tive duty military personnel and their families through Labor Day as part of the Blue Star Museums program. Free admission is avail-able to any active-duty U.S. military (Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines or Coast Guard, as well 
as members of the National 
Guard and Reserve, U.S. Public Health Service and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps) and up to five family members. For more information on the program, including a list 
of participating museums and 
acceptable IDs, visit arts.gov/national/blue-star-museums/frequently-asked-questions.
Are you Divergent? 
Whether you’re divergent or not, this Friday we’re showing “Insurgent” before it’s released 
on DVD and we’ll recreate the 
factions as shown through the “Divergent” series. Can you pass the tests or will you be discov-ered? Find out at GatorNights on Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will also feature free food and we’re encouraging students who are 
able to bring a canned good for 
donation to UF’s new Field to Work Campus Food Program. We’re always Friday, always free for students with your Gator 1 Card.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 4 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. HIGH  91° LOW  66°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona , Lindsey Saucier, Grace
  Hudgins, Kristine Janata
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Serina Esquivel, Bailey Gaul, 
  Miriam Gonzalez, Harry Kassal, 
  Eric Koblick, Eva Sailly, Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn,    
  T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel Lo
more aware about my identity and 
how I can better help others around me, and that’s when I became re-ally social-justice oriented and more about being aware about others and 
caring about what happens within 
my community.”
Christopher Wilde, an ambassa-dor at La Casita, is sad to see Garcia go.
“It is kind of nerve-wracking to 
see a director leave,” Wilde said. “I feel uneasy about it.”
Although Wilde is excited about 
the expansion being made to the Reitz Union, he also wants to make 
sure that the space at La Casita is 
still valued.
“When I came to La Casita I in-stantly fell in love with the people, the environment, the welcoming space, the food, the jokes, the laugh-ter and friends,” Wilde said. “It all just made it so comfortable.”
Garcia is sad to leave knowing 
she could have achieved so much more.
“This is a home away from home 
for students,” Garcia said, “and it was for me as well.”THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Here is where you can ﬁ  nd some 
sweet deals around Gainesville:
 Dunkin Donuts: Guests receive 
a free doughnut with the 
purchase of any beverage.
 Krispy Kreme: Guests receive a free doughnut upon entrance.
 UF DHNet: Guests who stop by 
the Beaty help desk and shows 
the receptionist they follow UF 
DHNet on social media, he or she will get a free doughnut.Friday is National Doughnut Day
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Olivia Garcia says goodbye to 19-year-old UF biology junior Timmi T an at a farewell reception in Garcia’s 
honor at La Casita Wednesday. “You can tell she’s very driven and passionate about what she does, ” said T an, who started working with Garcia at La Casita this semester.
DIRECTOR,  from pg 1Garcia: ‘This is a home away from home’LOCAL
By Brooke Perry
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Oaks Mall is welcoming a new clothing 
store.
On June 11, Hennes & Mauritz AB (H&M) 
will open the doors to a 23,000-square-foot 
store. The store, which originated in Sweden, 
offers affordable clothing for men and women. 
It will accompany 22 H&M stores already in Florida.
“It’s a unique product offering to bring to Gainesville,” said the Oaks Mall marketing manager Kristal Kelly. “The closest store is ei-ther Orlando or Tallahassee, so you’re driving two to three hours. I think it will be good for the community.”
The store will be located directly across 
from Forever 21, Kelly said.
According to a press release, the new store 
will have collections ranging from ladies, men, young ladies and young men to a separate “store within a store” section for accessories, lingerie, maternity, sports apparel and a plus-size line. It will also have a children’s collec-tion.
Alexa Penalta, a 20-year-old UF animal sci-
ence junior, said the store is a good ﬁ  t for the college students of Gainesville.
“Unless they are lucky enough to get mon-
ey from parents, most college students prob-ably don’t have a ton of money to spend on 
clothes,” Penalta said. “H&M is a store that pro-
vides trendy clothes for a decent price.”
On opening day, the store will offer the 
ﬁ  rst 200 shoppers an H&M T-shirt and Access to Fashion Pass, which will be for an amount between $10 and $300, according to the press release. There will also be a garment-recycling contest at the opening where any customer who brings in a bag of clothes to be recycled will receive 15 percent off his or her next pur-chase and will be entered to win a free gift card.H&M clothing comes to Oaks Mall, opens next week
“The closest store is either Orlando or 
Tallahassee, so you’re driving two to 
three hours. I think it will be good for 
the community.”
Kristal Kelly
Oaks Mall Marketing Manager4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015
LOCAL
By Elise Engle
Alligator Contributing Writer
A neon-green poster board reading “Snakeman 
Live!” was propped up near center stage at the Waldo 
Farmers and Flea Market.
Devin Wheeler and Mitra Snyder, owners of Second 
Chance Reptile Sanctuary in Starke, stopped in Waldo to put on one of their many summer reptile shows Sun-day.
About halfway into the 45-minute show, Wheeler 
held a 70-pound Southeast Asian python.
“We call this snake Misery,” he said.
Wheeler displayed each animal to the crowd, includ-
ing a snapping turtle, an albino California king snake 
and a 16-foot Burmese python.
Eric Townes, a 10-year-old audience member, said 
he liked seeing all the snakes. 
“I would feel very excited seeing that in other places 
than Waldo,” he said.
Equipped with a van and bins to contain the crea-
tures while on the road, Wheeler and Snyder said they 
hope to exhibit their snakes anywhere they can and 
educate the public on the various species.
“Our mission is to rescue, rehabilitate and give these 
animals a permanent second chance at a life that they may not have had had they been left in a pet shop or 
somebody let it go,” Snyder said.
Wheeler said when he was young he saw Ross Allen, 
founder of the Reptile Institute in Silver Springs, and 
became inspired to work with snakes.
Snyder said she had always dreamed of having a rep-
tile sanctuary and has been able to make the dream a reality with Wheeler.
The two met a few years ago when new laws forced 
Snyder to give up her two Burmese pythons because she did not have the proper license, she said.
Wheeler has a Class III wildlife license that allows 
him to own conditional species such as pythons and anacondas. He said he is one of very few individuals to hold this license in Florida.
“Instead of just worrying about it, I was just going 
to give them to Devin because he has his permits,” Sny-der said. “And that’s how we met, and we ended up being together, so I still have my snakes and we’re all together.”
Precautions are taken to prevent possible dangers of 
owning the snakes, Wheeler said, adding that the big-ger snakes have tracking devices. 
He must report where he plans to take the animals 
to the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commis-
sion.
Wheeler and Snyder are licensed to sell their animals 
but said they would rather look after them.
“It’s really not a lot of maintenance taking care of 
them whether we have 20 more animals come in or 
two,” said Wheeler. “So food and everything isn’t an issue. It’s just the time.”
Snyder and Wheeler are determined to pro-
vide a home for as many animals as possible, 
and they are not limiting themselves to reptiles. 
    The pair also provides care to peacocks, monkeys and raccoons.
“This is their last stop,” Snyder said. “They aren’t 
going to be re-homed. They are here for good.”Reptiles ﬁ  nd new home in sanctuary
Elise Engle / Alligator 
Devin Wheeler, an owner of Second Chance Reptile Sanctu-
ary, holds a 16-foot Burmese python at the Waldo Farmers and Flea Market on Sunday. Wheeler started the sanctuary with Mitra Snyder to provide a home to reptiles that wouldn’t be able to survive in the wild.
THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
THERE HAVE BEEN MORE THAN 
35,000 VISITORS. 
By Luisa Guaracao
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sue has done it again. The 12-foot-tall Ty-
rannosaurus rex has smashed the visitation 
numbers of the Florida Museum of Natural 
History for the second time in 13 years.
Since the exhibit “A T. rex Named Sue” 
opened Jan. 24, more than 35,000 visitors 
have come to the museum to see the cast of 
the largest, most complete T. rex ever found.
“It was basically our ﬁ  rst real blockbuster 
exhibit,” said Katina Prokos, the marketing 
assistant of the museum. “It got our visita-tion numbers through the roof … and we were really excited to bring it back for a new generation of dinosaur enthusiasts.”
Deanne Pool, a UF mom, has been to the 
exhibit, but it was certainly not the ﬁ  rst time 
Pool heard of Sue. She wrote the radio copy 
when the discovery was made.
“When I found out Sue was here I just 
had to come see because it was something I 
had written about,” Pool said. 
Sue will be on display until Sept. 13. The 
museum is open Monday to Saturday from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday from 1 to 5 p.m. 
Admission is free for all UF students 
with a valid Gator 1 Card and costs $7.50 for adults, $6.50 for Florida residents and seniors and $4.50 for children between the 
ages of 3 and 17.Sue the dinosaur breaks the 
record for museum visitors
Alligator File Photo
George Hecht, coordinator of museum operations at the Florida Museum of Natural His-
tory, speaks to an audience about Sue, the largest and most well-preserved T-rex skel-eton ever found, in the museum on Jan. 24.
Ofﬁ  cers responded to a call regarding an 
argument between two people at Motel 6, 
located at 4000 SW 40th Blvd., Gainesville 
Police Detective Matthew Goeckel wrote in 
an email. After investigating the incident, police came to the conclusion that the ﬁ  ght was over drug money. 
When the victim and another man were 
arguing, the suspect stepped in, ultimately 
leading to a ﬁ  ght between the victim and 
suspect, Goeckel said. During the ﬁ  ght, the suspect pulled out a knife and slashed the victim in the back, leaving the victim with a non-life-threatening cut from the shoul-der blade to the waist area. 
The suspect left the area before police 
arrived, Goeckel said. As of press time, of-ﬁ  cers are searching for the suspect. Gainesville Police are searching for the suspect involved in a motel ﬁ  ght early WednesdayThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnGood day, Gainesville. We hope you’ve somehow man-
aged to stay dry during Gainesville’s temperamental weath-
er as of late. In any event, it’s another week, another Thurs-
day and another edition of...
Darts and Laurels
This week’s been abuzz with the debut of Caitlyn Jenner, 
formerly Bruce Jenner. Usually we try to award a dart or 
laurel for feats of incredible awesomeness or deeds of vile villainy/mind-numbing stupidity, but today we’re going to award a laurel to the producers of Family Guy for pick-
ing up the phone and calling it on the Caitlyn Jenner developments, which shook the tabloid world earlier this 
week.
You see way back in 2009, when most of the Alligator’s 
current readership was probably still in high school, the adult cartoon series aired an episode whereupon two of the show’s most popular characters, Stewie and Brian, seem-ingly predict Jenner’s recent announcement. The 2009 clip had a short discussion between the two where it was re-
vealed by Stewie that Bruce Jenner had given birth to Brody 
Jenner.
“Bruce Jenner is a man,” Brian tells Stewie.“No, Brian,” Stewie replies. “That’s what the press 
would have you believe, but he’s not. Bruce Jenner is a woman — an elegant, beautiful, Dutch woman.”
Granted, Jenner’s Dutch heritage has never been made 
a manifest truth, but the clip remains an impressive feat of prescience by an animated talking baby.
Meanwhile, we see ﬁ  t to award a dart to a certain peti-
tion that’s been circulating since Caitlyn Jenner’s debut. 
Posted on Change.org, a call has been put out to revoke 
Jenner’s Olympic gold medal from the 1976 Montreal Olympic Games.
“We congratulate Ms. Jenner on these new developments 
and wish her the best,” the petition states. “However, this creates somewhat of a problem as Ms. Jenner (as talented as she is) claims that she has always believed herself to be 
truly female, and therefore, was in violation of committee 
rules regarding women competing in men’s sports and vice versa.”
The petition had 6,874 signatures as of press time.We’d like to make the point that Jenner had never moved 
forward with her gender nor was she taking any kind of hor-mone therapy during the decathlon. In fact, had she been taking hormone therapy at the time she’d have probably been at a disadvantage against her competitors, thereby 
rendering this discussion rather moot.
But don’t just take our word for the matter. Try the New 
York Supreme Court, which ruled in 1977 that trans women 
are wholly permitted to participate in Olympic sports, fur-ther rendering this matter moot and earning the petition a dart from us for being painfully irrelevant and ignorant.
Outside of buzzing trans discussion, some of the richest 
and most successful people in the world made it big after dropping out of college. Perhaps foremost among them is 
Bill Gates, co-founder of Microsoft and undisputedly one of 
the richest men in the world. But rather than offhandedly allowing his legacy to be an example for college skeptics to casually drop out of school, he’s gone on record with a blog post urging kids to stay in school and graduate.
Gates believes that not enough students are ﬁ  nishing 
their education, and views his own success story as an ex-ception to the rule.
“Although I dropped out of college and got lucky pursu-
ing a career in software, getting a degree is a much surer path to success,” he wrote on his blog.
Well, we can’t very well be a college newspaper if we 
didn’t believe in the virtues of education and freedom from ignorance, so for this enlightening statement on the issue we’ll award Mr. Gates a laurel.
Caitlyn Jenner detractors need to step up 
Vanity Fair’s public unveiling of Caitlyn Jenner post-operation Monday ignited a cultural debate that has since remained on the tips of most Americans’ tongues. The attention, coverage and dialogue 
dedicated to Jenner’s decision to pursue her tran-sition has been extraordinary, especially when one considers how fragmented American society has become in the Internet age.
Jenner’s journey is the perfect storm of a 
story, capturing the fascination of multiple domains of American interest: those who remember her as an Olym-pian, those who only know her for her regrettable associa-tions with reality television, and those who simply long for 
a world where someone can be themselves without fear of 
persecution. Speaking for myself, I don’t care about sports, and I have never — and will never — tune in to an episode of “Keeping Up with the Kardashians.” However, I do see myself as someone who respects the dignity of others and am thrilled to see a public ﬁ  gure so joyously celebrating the actualization of her ideal physical identity, especially when so many are afraid to.
In a surprising turn for the Internet, the discourse sur-
rounding Caitlyn Jenner’s physical transition has been largely considerate, supportive and uplifting. But c’mon, we live in an age where people crowdfund money to publicly acknowledge killers of unarmed teens (e.g., George Zim-merman) and hatred and intolerance was eventually going to rear its ugly head. Detractors, such as Nicole Russell, a senior contributor to online conservative publication “The Federalist,” opted to focus in particular on what many have referred to as Jenner’s bravery. In her piece, the cleverly 
titled “Bruce Jenner Is Not Brave,” Russell writes the fol-
lowing:
“If a man doesn’t want to be a man, why shouldn’t he 
pretend to be a woman? Or if a parent doesn’t think her boy wants to be a boy, why shouldn’t that parent allow—even demand—the boy ‘become’ a girl or, heck, a donkey? The variables and possibilities are endless.”
The journalist and forward-thinking college student in me would like to treat Russell’s writing with a modicum of respect. Likewise, my empathy and desire to bridge differences with others would have me not become unreasonably upset when individuals on Facebook and other social me-
dia platforms mock Jenner, putting words like 
“brave” and “courageous” in quotation marks. To hell with that.
Most, if not all, of the think pieces that shared 
posts and nasty tweets deriding Jenner have been 
rooted in a deep, unmistakable tradition of transphobia. De-spite this, none of the above criticisms of Jenner come out and say it, (with “it” being that their dislike of Jenner stems purely from her status as a transwoman) choosing instead 
to obfuscate their prejudiced ideology with platitudes and 
bullshit, using buzzwords like “bravery” and “courage” as shields with which to hide from public backlash.
To that end, I would like to make a proposal. If anyone 
seeks to make a public criticism of Jenner for her transition, rather than for something of merit like her past as a neg-ligent father or her contribution to vapid television, their criticism ought to be prefaced with the following statement: “I am a transphobic asshole, and the idea of a person tran-
sitioning from one gender to another awakens a primal fear 
in me that I have difﬁ  culty reconciling with.” I do not think this is a ridiculous request; surely, the same people who have admonished Jenner for her lack of bravery ought to be intrepid enough to express their own thoughts in public without fear of reprisal, right?
Caitlyn Jenner’s experience isn’t reﬂ  ective of the struggle 
many trans individuals experience in America: She has had the beneﬁ  t of wealth, a good PR team and the resources al-
located to her as a successful athlete that have undoubtedly 
made her life easier. However, for someone of her standing to publicly undertake this journey qualiﬁ  es as something resembling bravery. Jenner decided to unveil who she truly is on a world stage; that’s more than I can say for most of the Internet.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science junior. His column 
appears on Thursdays.
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 Stem cell research could help those 
with muscular dystrophy
A group of UF researchers has discov-
ered a way to reverse the effects of one type of muscular dystrophy by editing 
the genome of nervous system stem 
cells.Two types of myotonic dystrophy — cer-tain forms of muscular dystrophy — af-
fect one in every 8,000 people worldwide 
but vary among different geographic and ethnic regions, said Tetsuo Ashizawa, the executive director of the McKnight Brain Institute and a professor in the de-
partment of neurology at UF.
Myotonic dystrophy type 1 causes mus-cle wasting and weakness in the lower legs, hands, neck and face. 
It is an extremely expensive disease to 
care for and there is ultimately no cure, Ashizawa said. “One of the surprising aspects of these diseases is that they appear to cause a 
problem with sleep regulation,” said 
Maurice Swanson, a professor in the UF department of molecular genetics and microbiology. 
Swanson added that people with myo-
tonic dystrophy constantly feel dysfunc-tional because they have deregulated sleep patterns.The UF team used genome editing to 
correct the origin of myotonic dystrophy 
type 1.Researchers inserted a signal to cur-tail the RNA in the gene in adult stem 
cells, which blocked the unusually long, 
repetitive stretches of RNA that cause myotonic dystrophy type 1.From this, researchers discovered that gene editing reversed the abnormalities 
found in cells affected by myotonic dys-
trophy, said Guangbin Xia, an assistant professor in the UF College of Medicine department of neurology.
“Gene editing provides a fundamental 
provision to the disease by locating the source of it and blocking the expression of the mutation, providing a possible cure,” he said.
These findings are an early but crucial step toward eventually using stem cell 
therapy to treat myotonic dystrophy type 1. 
The next phase is to test the process in 
an animal model.Additional studies will allow Xia to ex-amine genetically modified stem cells 
that could potentially lead to cell-trans-
fer therapy as a treatment for myotonic dystrophy type 1.
-MELISSA BROWN
Geriatric care helps older patients live 
longer
Older patients with access to a geri-
atrician are more likely to lead longer, healthier lives, according to a UF health 
study led by Laurence Solberg, the chief 
of the division of geriatric medicine in the UF College of Medicine.The study’s findings are based on more 
than 20,000 patients in 
the same age group hos-pitalized for similar ill-nesses, such as delirium or dementia, Solberg 
said. 
Data was collected over a two-year period, one year with a geriatric con-
sult service and in-hospi-
tal geriatrician and one without either.The study showed a decrease of 50 percent 
in the mortality rate of 
older individuals in the trauma unit and 58 per-cent in the chronic ill-
ness unit, Solberg said. 
There was also a 4-per-cent increase in patients being released to go home with home health 
care, as opposed to a 
long-term care facility.The study illustrates the impact an in-hospital 
geriatrician can have on 
the overall health and attitude of the patients, Solberg said. 
Unfortunately, only about 20 percent of 
hospitals have such a service, Solberg added.The consult service at UF Health was 
created to ensure older patients receive 
the appropriate medications and prop-er care needed to manage any illness, Solberg said. Prior to the consultations, medication 
would sometimes be given to older pa-
tients in a dosage too large for their bod-ies to break down, he said.“I really wanted to be able to give pa-
tients that time, listen to their stories and 
treat them as a whole person looking at all of their functional abilities as well as their quality of life,” Solberg said.The quality of care a hospital provides 
is measured by objective benchmarks, 
said Marco Pahor, the director of the UF 
Institute on Aging.Helping the patients helps 
the hospital, he said.
The results of the study sup-port the idea that new poli-cies should be put in place, Pahor said.  
-DAKOTA SUTTON
Media campaign increas-
es oral cancer screening among African Ameri-cans
A media campaign led to 
an increase in the amount of African-American men 
seeking oral cancer screen-
ing for the first time.UF researchers designed and implemented a media 
campaign, which was pub-
lished last month in the “American Journal of Public Health,” to encourage peo-ple to prevent oral cancer 
by getting screened  for the 
disease on a regular basis. The campaign increased 
the amount of African-
American men seeking an initial screening by 13 percent, said Yi Guo, an assistant professor in the UF 
College of Medicine’s department of 
health outcomes and policy.The campaign cost $68,000, which in-cluded designing, printing and distribut-
ing the media, Guo said.
It also included the salary of a liaison to provide key connections to the local businesses in the communities.Oral cancer, a deadly yet preventable 
disease, is a silent killer affecting nearly 
one person every hour of every day, ac-cording to the American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons.
Oral cancer is not typically diagnosed 
until it reaches the later stages when it is far more difficult to cure, said Virginia Dodd, an associate professor in the UF College of Dentistry’s department of 
community dentistry and behavioral sci-
ence.The campaign used posters, brochures and hand-held fans, which were distrib-
uted to local businesses in those com-
munities, to reach the target audience.Photographs were the primary medium used for the campaign, and they were able to design images that have a much 
stronger appeal to the black male audi-
ence, Guo said. For example, one poster featured a pic-ture of a black family with facts about 
oral cancer in relation to African-
American men, he said.Focus groups were surveyed to deter-mine what information and media would be most approachable, Dodd said. 
The research team wanted to have them 
involved with the message design.The focus groups had an average of eight people per group and varied in age 
and gender, Dodd said.
People from the six counties were re-cruited for the focus groups. The participants were surveyed in an ef-fort to learn what they did and didn’t 
know about oral cancer and to under-
stand what information they would find the most approachable, Dodd said. 
-DAKOTA SUTTON
RESEARCH ROUNDUPIT’S WHERE HOW DO YOU ROLL? 
USED TO BE.
By Li Stalder
Alligator Contributing Writer
The fast-casual dining trend inspired 
Netta Kaiden to open a build-your-own 
pasta restaurant across the street from UF 
in Midtown.
Fork and Pasta will open its doors June 
15 and will have its grand opening June 
20. The restaurant will be located at Rob-
erts’ Stadium Club in the former location 
of sushi restaurant How Do You Roll? at 1802 W. University Ave.
During its opening week, customers 
will receive a free sangria or cappuccino 
with their meal, said Kaiden, co-owner of 
Fork and Pasta.
Diners can choose their dish by type of 
pasta, sauce and add-ons, including fettuc-
cine, macaroni, ravioli, pesto and tomato 
sauce. A pasta dish can be topped with ba-con or bite-size meatballs as extras. There will also be whole wheat and gluten-free pasta options.
Depending on the mixture of pasta, 
sauce and extras, a dish will cost between 
$7.50 and $13.
Rachael duBois, a 30-year-old Gator-
Well employee and UF sociology student, 
is a regular at Chipotle, but said she’s in-
terested in trying Fork and Pasta.
“Being able to build your own is always 
a good idea,” duBois said. “You don’t feel 
guilty for asking for specific things that you like.”
Fork and Pasta will make pasta daily, 
Kaiden said, and will try its best to inte-grate local herbs and spices. People will also have the option to buy pasta by 
weight to take home.  
For the summer, the restaurant is open 
Monday through Thursday 8 a.m. to 10 
p.m. On Fridays it will be open 9 a.m. to 11 p.m., and Saturdays it is open 10 a.m. 
to 11 p.m. On Sundays, the hours are 10 
a.m. to 10 p.m. Hours will be extended in the Fall semester.8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
A paper sign hangs in the window of Fork and Pasta at 1802 W University Ave. on 
Wednesday. The restaurant will open on June 15. 
Build-your-own pasta dish restaurant comes to Midtown
By Brooke Perry
Alligator Contributing Writer
In an effort to improve the sus-
tainability of the items it sells, Wal-
Mart has announced new positions 
on animal welfare and the use of an-tibiotics in farm animals.
In a recent press release, the 
company stated they would begin supporting the “Five Freedoms” of animal welfare. These are freedom from hunger and thirst, freedom from discomfort, freedom from pain, 
injury or disease, freedom to express 
normal behavior and freedom from fear and distress.
The company also announced 
new standards on antibiotics, saying they should be used responsibly.
There is no timeline as to when 
these changes will occur in all U.S. Wal-Marts and Sam’s Clubs, which is owned and operated by Wal-Mart. 
The company is asking all suppliers 
to follow the principles outlined in the new positions.
“The response (from the public) 
so far has been positive,” said Kevin Gardner, the senior director of Global Responsibility Communications for Wal-Mart. 
All of this is part of Wal-Mart’s 
commitment to a sustainable food system, which was announced in a four-part pledge in 2014.
Manny Rutinel, the head of public 
relations for UF’s Student Animal Al-liance, said any move by a compa-ny toward animal welfare is a good thing. 
“I believe that the public is de-
manding it,” the 20-year-old microbi-ology and cell science and economics major said. “They’re interested in be-ing more conscious of what’s on their plate.”
Rutinel, a vegan, said social me-
dia has also had a major impact on these positions because users can now instantaneously share videos of animal mistreatment.
However, these changes may not 
come easy to all parties involved.
Ben Sperry, a 23-year-old UF 
agronomy graduate student, feels the new restrictions aren’t necessary and are redundant.
Sperry said the move is purely a 
business decision, and Wal-Mart is only becoming more involved with the practices of its producers because 
it’s a current trend.
Sperry doesn’t think consumers 
should be worried about the welfare 
of animals, because farmers already take proper action to treat them well.
“Animal producers are dependent 
on their animals,” he said. “They take pride in what they do, and they do everything to keep their animals 
healthy.” Wal-Mart supports animal welfareNATIONAL
By The Associated Press
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) — De-
tained Washington Post corre-
spondent Jason Rezaian will face the second day of his closed-door espionage trial Monday, 
Iran’s semi-ofﬁ  cial ISNA news 
agency reported Wednesday.
The ISNA report quoted 
Rezaian’s lawyer, Leila Ahsan, as giving the hearing’s date. Rezaian’s brother, Ali, later told The Associated Press by email that the judge told Ahsan that Monday would be the next hear-
ing.
Rezaian, the Post’s 39-year-
old bureau chief, had his ﬁ  rst 
closed-door hearing May 26 in a Revolutionary Court on charges including espionage and propa-ganda against the Islamic Re-public. U.S. ofﬁ  cials, the Post and rights groups have criticized 
his trial, which comes as Iran negotiates with world powers 
over its con-tested nuclear program.
The Post 
has said 
Rezaian, al-
ready held more than 300 days, faces 10 to 20 years in prison if convicted. Washington Post spokeswoman Molly Gannon 
said the newspaper had no com-
ment Wednesday.Reporter detained in 
Iran, hearing Monday
Rezaian
It will help sustainabilityKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
UF alumnus lands role on television
Conphidance Echeazu will co-star on USA’s “Complications, ” pg. 12What’s inside: 
“Orange Is The New Black” binge drinking game, pg. 10The Avenue reviews A$AP Rocky’s latest release, pg. 11THE BAND WILL PERFORM WITH 
SOL CAT AT THE HIGH DIVE
By Laura Gomez
Avenue Writer
If you’re going out Thursday, you may 
want to catch Turbo Fruits playing their ﬁ  rst-
ever show in Gainesville.
The Nashville-based quartet will perform 
at the High Dive, located at 210 SW Second 
Ave. Doors open at 9 p.m. and tickets can be 
purchased for $12 at the door or for $10 in advance on ticketweb.com.
“We see opportunity in Gainesville be-
cause a lot of garage rock bands haven’t come through in the past,” said Rob Budowsky, the band’s accountant and promoter.
Lead singer and founder Jonas Stein de-
scribed their style as rowdy, pop-like rock 
and roll, and Budowsky said they’re a punk 
band in the truest sense of the word.
“Their brand of garage rock is both raw 
and kinetic and smart and melodious,” Bu-dowsky said.
The band will come equipped with new 
music from its April release, “No Control.” Attendees will hear favorites such as “The Way I Want You” and “Show Me Something 
Real.”
“On our best nights, you’ll see Turbo 
Fruits jumping around off the stage, hopping 
off the bar, climbing on people’s shoulders,” Stein said.
Ten years ago, a high school-aged Stein 
came up with the idea to start a band he would later call Turbo Fruits.
The story behind the attention-grabbing 
name:
“It was all due to gambling…I was gam-
bling on a slot machine and I hit a small jack-pot and it lit up turbo fruit,” Stein said.
The ﬁ  rst four years brought about a few 
changes in the lineup. For the past six years, the band has consisted of Stein on guitar and vocals, Kingsley Brock on guitar and backing vocals, Dave McCowen on bass and backing 
vocals and Matt Hearn on drums.
Before playing together as Turbo Fruits, 
bassist McCowen and drummer Hearn used 
to play in a band called The Tits, which played shows with Turbo Fruits. When the rest of his band left one summer, Stein made a move.
“I gave them a call and asked if they 
could come on tour and they just kind of stuck,” Stein said.
Shortly after, Kingsley, who went to high 
school with Stein, was added as a second guitar player.The band, which had a ten-week tour 
with Surfer Blood in 2010, draws inﬂ  uence from bands they’re friends with and with whom they tour.
“I think it goes both ways, you know,” 
Stein said. “I think you start to really appre-
ciate each other’s artwork and music so you 
can’t help but feel inﬂ  uenced by it.”
Stein, who races bikes in his free time, referees ice hockey and disc jockeys, recog-nizes playing music is his trade.
“Being in a band and just being involved 
in music works out pretty well for me. I don’t think there was much of a deﬁ  ning moment, but as I get older and as I’ve been 
doing this for longer, I’m starting to realize 
that it’s probably what I’m going to be doing for a long time,” Stein said.
THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
Nashville-based band Turbo Fruits will play its first-ever Gainesville show at 9 p.m. on Thursday at the High Dive, 
located at 210 SW Second Ave.
Punk quartet Turbo Fruits to perform Thursday night
By Jennifer Eason
Avenue Writer
Bestselling thriller author Steve 
Berry is returning to Gainesville 
on Sunday.
At 2 p.m., the author will make 
his second appearance at the Mill-
hopper Library, 3145 NW 43rd 
St., to discuss his new book, an-swer questions and sign novels.
He was asked to come back 
to discuss his new books and answer questions about what in-spires him, said Nickie Kortus, the marketing and public relations manager for the Alachua County Library District.
Berry’s novels 
have been on The 
New York Times, 
USA Today, Pub-lishers Weekly and BookSense bestseller lists.
He writes ﬁ  ction-thriller novels 
that reﬂ  ect historical events.
“All of my books have history 
in them,” Berry said. “Something lost, something forgotten, some-thing you may not know a lot about but you wanna know more 
— and that’s what my novels do.”
His new book, 
“The Patriot Threat,” was re-leased March 31. 
It’s the 10th book he published in a series about a character named Cotton Malone, a retired, top op-erative for the U.S. Department of Justice who can’t seem to stay away from the job.
Before becoming an author, he 
was a trial lawyer for 30 years and held elective ofﬁ  ce for 14 of those years.
Learning to write ﬁ  ction novels 
took him years, Berry said.
“It’s an acquired skill, and you 
have to teach yourself that craft,” he said. “I try to write like a law-yer but that’s not the way you write novels so I had to re-teach myself.”
The author was rejected 85 
times before publishing his ﬁ  rst book in 2003. Since then, he has published 14 books.Berry said his books reﬂ  ect the 
topics he loves: action, history, secrets and conspiracies in an in-ternational setting.
But writing what he loves 
doesn’t come easily. Each novel he writes requires about 18 months of research from 300 to 400 dif-ferent sources and 12 months of writing, Berry said.
“You write what you love,” he 
said. “You don’t necessarily write what you know. If what you know and what you love are the same 
thing that’s great, but for me it 
wasn’t.”
Bestselling thriller author to return to Millhopper Library
He will speak, sign novels Sunday
LOCALTHURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015
By Rachel Pimienta
Avenue Writer
Take a shot when…
 Piper encounters ﬁ  rst-
world problems or white 
privilege
 Mendezʼs pornstache gets 
ample screen time
 Thereʼs lesbian activity
 Taystee and Poussey are 
hilarious Daya and Bennett are 
precioso with one another
Finish your drink and 
pour another when…
 You discover Larry is 
actually relevant
 Mr. Healy makes a friend 
besides Doggett
 Red catches the chicken
 Morello isnʼt wearing red 
lipstick
 Nichols combs her hair
 Alex Vause stops being “If you go to a network and say, ‘I 
wanna do prison stories about black 
women and Latino women and old women,’ you’re not gonna make a sale. But, if you’ve got this blonde girl 
going to prison, you can get in there 
and then you can tell all the stories. I just thought it was a terriﬁ  c gateway drug into all the things I wanted to get into,” said Jenji Kohan, the mas-termind behind television’s smash-hit Weeds.
Kohan has amalgamated her tal-
ents with Piper Kerman’s best-selling memoir, producing the theatrical sit-
com “Orange is The New Black.” As 
a result, Netﬂ  ix users reacted by do-ing what they do best: spiraling into manic binging. With a drug-smug-gling blonde, a bespectacled beauty, a crazy-eyed admirer and a pre-tran-sitioning stylist, it is not uncommon for viewers to loathe Larry Bloom. Waiting for OITNB’s third season premiere would drown anyone in a 
sea of grief. 
You’ve got time for one drink or 
ﬁ  ve. In the words of Mendez: “Shot, 
shot, shot!” Drink the booze and ab-sorb its power.is
thenewA$AP’s new album is charged, psychedelic ff the Record
By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
It’s ornately untamed. “AT.LONG.LAST.
A$AP,” the newest project from rapper A$AP 
Rocky, paints the portrait of an artist boldly stretching the margins of his own canvas.
Released May 26, the album features guest 
appearances from Kanye West, Lil Wayne and Rod Stewart.
A psychedelic crescendo from its onset, 
“L$D” begins as nothing more than a few scat-tered notes in space. As the song progresses and new bits of sound are introduced, layers begin to amass, gradually turning those scat-tered notes into a succinct, euphoric ode to acid. Rocky’s softly sung melo-dies permeate throughout the track, increasing in complexity with pass-ing time. Midway through, the mini-malistic instrumental fades out before 
climaxing into a woozy chorus. Un-
expectedly, the chorus dissipates and transitions into a falsetto melody.
The Kanye West-assisted “Jukebox Joints” 
revolves around a cozy, lo-ﬁ   chorus and a few grainy soul samples. Rocky begins by ﬂ  oat-ing over the old voices, detailing sexual ex-ploits while also reﬂ  ecting on past mistakes. His lyrics are calm and intimate. After a few minutes, a surge of static interrupts the ﬁ  rst instrumental and introduces a new, equally soulful one. A new Rocky verse emanates from the speaker as 
the new batch of old voices begins 
to loop, but the verse is short-lived. 
A singing Kanye comes in with a catchy little melody before he starts venting. Another surge of static signiﬁ  es the song’s end.
Further along, Rod Stewart’s rasping voice 
marks the start of “Everyday.” The track’s in-fectious chorus samples an old Python Lee Jackson track Stewart sang on in 1972. He and singer Miguel split the singing duties down the middle, adding deepness to the melody. Rocky’s ﬁ  rst verse is laced with feelings of es-cape and helplessness, coated by a thin layer of pride. But after the chorus loops, the once-
calming instrumental evolves into a riot-like 
sound. A supercharged Rocky breaks through the speakers, looking past whatever reﬂ  ections he made earlier in the song. Miguel eases into a smooth bridge before making his way back to the chorus.
All I can say is at long last.
CONPHIDANCE ECHEAZU, 
AN ENTERTAINER AND 
MATHEMATICAL CONNOIS-
SEUR, WILL CO-STAR ON 
USA’S “COMPLICATIONS” 
BEGINNING IN JUNE
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
From student to entertainer, a UF 
alumnus lands a spot co-starring on 
USA Network’s show “Complica-
tions.”
Conphidance Echeazu, an enter-
tainer and mathematical connois-
seur, demonstrates Gators are every-where as he prepares himself for his debut role as CJ on “Complications,” 
which will air at 9 p.m. on June 18.
Echeazu, who was born in Nige-
ria as Uchenna Echeazu, moved to 
America with his family in pursuit of 
better educational opportunities. At 
UF, he studied biological engineer-ing and made time to take part in activities that cultivated his love of dancing and entertaining others.
“My calling was truly to inspire 
people through entertainment,” Echeazu said.
Echeazu also minored in both 
biomechanics and African studies. He was an active member in the in-ternational community and served as the president for the African Stu-dent Union for two years.
UF professor Agnes Leslie, ASU’s 
current faculty advisor, said that Echeazu was always an active par-ticipant in student activities.
“Uchenna was creative, funny 
and always willing to work with the other students to promote African culture,” Leslie said.
Shortly after graduating, Echeazu 
became a high school algebra teach-
er. Echeazu’s teaching days served 
as inspiration for a show he has writ-ten and will soon do a pilot produc-tion for.
“It was a great experience,” he 
said. “I would always joke around with the kids and tell them that they’d see me on the TV in a few years.”
Echeazu opted to rename himself 
and decided on Conphidance — a blend of three words that his peers said best described who he was: conscious, philosophical and dance, which described his love of enter-tainment via dancing.
Now, he is living up to his name 
along with his dream of being suc-cessful in the industry. 
The artiste has snagged roles on shows such as CW’s “The Originals,” and USA Network’s “Satisfaction.”
Echeazu uses his love of acting, 
dancing and music as a way to raise his voice in the community and in-
spire those who look up to entertain-
ers.
“Right now I think entertainers 
are some of the biggest inﬂ  uences,” 
he said. “I strive to be that enter-
tainer that supports academia and education because it really is the foundation.”
Leslie agrees.
“I am so glad that UF and the Af-
rican Students Union served as his 
training ground.”12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pictured above is UF alumnus Conphidance Echeazu, who will co-
star on USA’s “Complications” beginning June 18.
By Veronica Garcia
Avenue Writer
Forage Farms and First Magnitude 
Brewing Company will be hosting the third 
annual School’s Out Local Food and Music 
Festival this Saturday.
The event will be held from 11a.m. to 3 
p.m. at First Magnitude Brewing Company, 1220 SE Veitch St. Tickets will be sold at 
the door. Children’s tickets can be pur-chased for $5 and adult tickets are $10.
Co-founder of Forage Farms and event 
organizer Ana Prizzia said this is the ﬁ  rst time the festival will be held at First Mag-nitude Brewing Company.
“This is a celebration of the beginning 
of summer, especially to celebrate the great 
things about our community,” Prizzia said. 
“The funds, particularly, will beneﬁ  t the Forage Farm’s programming, especially the youth-education program and after-school garden.”
Forage is a nonproﬁ  t organization that 
focuses outreach throughout the commu-nity on educating and inspiring people to value healthy food and land.
The family-friendly event will supply bounce houses, arts and crafts, live music, great beer, local food vendors and activi-
ties with local organizations. There will 
be a variety of food available from Hum-
ble Pie, Sweet Dreams, FED Food Company, The Cookie Parlor and Chew-
Box Co.
“There will be a wa-
termelon-seed-spitting 
contest, which is an old-
fashioned idea,” Prizzia said. “It is part of our organization of seed saving as well as gardening.”
Local band Corporal Captain, comprised 
of Dana Myers on vocals; Tom Grant on 
the banjo, vocals and guitar; Hamilton Rott on the ﬁ  ddle; Scott Ashcraft on guitar; and 
Brian Turk on the bass and percussion, 
will play their ﬁ  rst-ever live show as a 
band that afternoon.
“Three of us in the band were in anoth-
er band, and we had played in the festival last year,” Myers said.
The band identiﬁ  es with Americana, 
alt-folk, acoustic dark, soulful and rootsy genres. Other live acts include Weeds of Eden, Boiling Oil, Endless Pools, Michael 
Claytor and Danny Black.
“Forage farms is such a wonderful orga-
nization and we always like to support For-
age Farms and their community events,” Myers said.First Magnitude hosts local food, music festival Saturday
The event begins at 11 a.m.
UF almunus lands television role
“Right now I think entertainers 
are some of the biggest 
inluences. I strive to be that 
entertainer that supports 
academia and education because 
it really is the foundation.”
Conphidance Echeazu
UF almunus                             By Joshua Williamson 
Avenue Writer
The summer kickoff edition of the Original Gainesville 
Food Truck Rally is Saturday.
The free event will begin at 5 p.m. at the High Dive, lo-
cated at 210 SW Second Ave. The event will continue until 
2 a.m. with live music starting at 7:30 p.m. 
The rally, brought to you by Glory Days, High Dive and 
its newest host, Off the Griddle food truck, will beneﬁ  t the Peaceful Paths local domestic-abuse network.
“This is our summer kickoff for the Original Gainesville 
Food Truck Rally; we only do this every six weeks or so,” said Pat Lavery, the founder and organizer of the event.
In January 2013, the Food Truck Rally, held at High 
Dive, was the ﬁ  rst-ever event of its kind in Alachua Coun-
ty. Now, it remains the biggest, Lavery said.
“We had no idea how well it would resonate. Our park-
ing lot was full within the ﬁ  rst 30 minutes,”  Lavery said. 
“We realized right off the bat we had something good on our hands.”
The event will feature affordable, delicious food from 
unique local and regional vendors complete with vegan and vegetarian options. There will be a fully stocked bar as well as nonalcoholic drinks available.
Attendees are encouraged to bring their friends, family 
and even pets, Lavery said.
Guests will be able to vote for their favorite food trucks 
by putting money in the donation boxes located in each truck. The winning truck will receive a prize and all the money goes to Peaceful Paths, Lavery said.
Peaceful Paths helps children and adults who are vic-
tims of domestic violence, said Peaceful Paths’ Executive Director Theresa Beachy. 
Donations from this event will help Peaceful Paths fund 
the expansion of its current campus.
Beachy said Peaceful Paths has devoted the past four 
years to being able to provide the residential services peo-ple really need. They ofﬁ  cially broke ground on the project in March 2014.
“Providing safe residential services is the key to long-
term impact,” Beachy said. Food truck rally 
to return to GNV
“W e had no idea how well it would resonate. Our 
parking lot was full within the irst 30 minutes. W e 
realized right of the bat we had something good on 
our hands.”
Pat Lavery
event founder and organizer
LOCALTHURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished 
condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    7-2-15-36-1
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
UNIVERSTIY COMMONS Across campus. Best deal in town. 1 room avail 6/1, $325/mo. 1 room avail (luxury room) 8/1, $350/mo. Utils, wi-fi & cable incl. #1 location for bus rte. Resort-style living & amenities. Beautifully furn'd. Ladies only. Call Belle 352-328-2477    6-11-1 1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,
Designed for college students!!
$400.00 Month, utilities included. 
We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    6-18-15-57-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1600/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    6-4-15-39-2
Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.
Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:
352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com   
 6-9-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
6-18-15-20-2
**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
1, 2, 3 and 4 bedroom houses & apart-
ments available for August. All near UF and Downtown. * CALL 870-2760 *    7-2-15-16-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Half Block to UF - Extra nice!
$1515/mo, Aug 1st. 3BR apts - Great for 
groups, 4 avail in quad, 1227 SW 4th Ave. A1 cond, parking & extras incl.  352-514-5060    6-4-15-9-2Apt for rent. Near Shands. 3300 SW 23rd St, Apt #2. 1BR/1BA w/ large screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. $545/mo + $700 sec. Pets ok. 352-371-3473, leave message.   6-4-15-8-2
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATIONFall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2
TEN BEDROOM HOUSE!! Live with nine of your friends but don't be responsible for their rent! Double living rooms, washer/dryer sets and fridges! Lots of off street parking and walk to campus, completely renovated in fall 2014, this house is AMAZING! Call Campus Realty 352-692-3800    6-30-15-11-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of 
parking!      $700/mo. 352-505-5049
www.crosskeysproperties.com    6-4-15-4-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, hardwood floors, W/D$650-$775 352-505-5049     6-4-15-4-2
3 Bedroom, 2 bath home for rent. 7 blocks north of University. Carport, huge veranda, front porch. 1526 NW 7th Place. Available August 1. 407-496-5394    6-4-4-2
VINTAGE 2BR/2BA HOME, quiet area, bike to UF/Downtown, wood floors, high ceilings, fireplace, screened porch, breakfast nook. $1280 Call/text: 352-575-4395Email: 828@cozygator.com   6-4-15-3-2
Large House Nice 6BR 4BA
Must See Walk to UF & Stadiums+ Bonus efficiency 1BR 1BA KitchenetteBig Yard & Lots of Parking $2,850moPerfect for students or large familyAvail July 20 (352)256-3323    6-16-15-5-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
For Sale 3 BR 2 Bath. 7 blocks north of University. Carport, huge veranda, front porch. 1526 NW 7th Place. Contact Graham, 352-215-9900    6-4-4-5
Casablanca West, 3bed, 2&1/2 ba  townhse. 
Corner, steps to bus. 2012 new Trane A/C. Move in ready. Call but need to hurry. $74,900. Irene Larsson RE Services - 352-373-2605, 352-538-1218.    6-4-15-2-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-101For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Subleases 2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $1900
95 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYUF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
1. GEOGRAPHY: What two nations 
does the 38th parallel divide?
2. BUSINESS: What beer company 
is headquartered in Golden, Colorado? 
3. HISTORY: The Jacobins were a 
radical group of which movement?  
4. MOVIES: When was “The Mup-
pet Movie” released? 
5. MUSIC: What rock group had a 
hit with the single “Message in a Bot-
tle”?
6. SPORTS: When was the last year 
the Dodgers played in Brooklyn? 
7. COMICS: In the “Archie” com-
ics, which of Archie’s girlfriends had blond hair? 
8. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which presi-
dents’ faces are on Mount Rushmore?
9. MYTHOLOGY: In Greek mythol-
ogy, what was the name of the hunter who was killed by his own hounds?
10. ASTRONOMY: How often does 
Mercury orbit the Sun?
Answers
1. North and South Korea2. Coors3. French Revolution4. 19795. The Police 6. 19577. Betty8. George Washington, Thomas Jef-
ferson, Abraham Lincoln and Theo-
dore Roosevelt
9. Actaeon
10. About 88 Earth days
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
June 1, 2015 King Features Weekly ServiceACROSS
1 Los Alamos
projects
7 “A Jug of Wine
...” poet
11 Shelter
acquisition
14 Hat with a brim
15 Sport for
heavyweights
16 Fertility lab
supply
17 Heavyweight
who dethronedSonny Liston
19 NASA transport
20 Attacks
21 Other, to Orlando22 Happy hour site25 The London Eye,
for one
28 Exception lead-in30 Memorable
“Richard III”words
31 Disadvantaged32 One of the
Mountain States
35 Some hot rods36 Zesty meat
coating
40 Roulette option42 “Sorry”43 Land of the
banshee
46 Home of the
NCAA’s WolfPack
48 “Tess” Golden
Globe winner
50 Beer-making
device
54 Slew
55 Level, in London56 Spelunkers58 Dash widths59 Fictional wizard,
and a hint to whowould use theends of 17-, 25-,36- and 50-
Across
64 __ limit
65 Assist badly?
66 Words before
“Happy New
Year!”
67 Kenan’s TV pal68 Chats
69 New York county
on Lake Ontario
DOWN
1 Browns’ gp.
2 Cole Porter’s “__
Clown”3 Takes too much,
briefly
4 Peat component
5 Legal filings
6 Browns, perhaps
7 Word before nod
or buzz
8 Millionaire
starter?
9 Org. with a
monthly Journalof Ethics
10 Kevin’s “Tin Cup”
role
11 Disruptive spirit12 Tibetans call it
Chomolungma
13 They may be hot
18 Belarus or Ukr.,
once
21 “Looky here!”
22 Small seal23 Low número24 Circulation need26 Humorist Mort27 “Hold it!”29 Bobble the ball32 Market chain
based in Chicago
33 Room with a
recliner
34 Insurance fig.
37 Helper
38 Site of Mt.
Mitchell, highest
Appalachian peak39 __ master
40 Taking five or
ten
41 Drive up the 
wall
44 “King Kong”
studio
45 Cologne article
47 Blow away48 Heavy lifter, for
short?
49 Aligned51 Head-turner’s
hardware?52 Super Mario
racers
53 One climbing the
walls
57 Stash
59 Uris novel, with
“The”
60 Old sports org.
with a red-white-
and-blue ball
61 Piggy
62 Writer’s coll.
major, often
63 Vintage auto
By Michael Dewey
©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/04/1506/04/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, June 4, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted
THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
5-14-14-25-13 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-25-14
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales 
staff in outside newspaper advertising 
sales. Motivator needed who works well 
with a constantly changing staff. Duties 
include training university students in 
outside newspaper sales, layout and copy 
writing. Must work well within and meet 
daily deadlines. Good organizational skills 
a must. Newspaper ad sales background 
an advantage. Modest salary, good benefits 
and excellent working environment. With 
resume, send cover letter that must include 
salary requirements, to: General Manager, 
The Independent Florida Alligator, P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, FL 32604 or email to 
tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, Fl
Cook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
Alarm dispatcher neededpart-time weeknights/weekends. Must be able to pass a background check. Email resume to applications@cpss.net    7-2-15-14-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
MEDICAL ASSISTANT needed for busy Dermatology office. Full Time with benefits or part time. Experience desired. Ideal for pre-med, nursing and allied health student. Min. one year commitment. Respond to ofmgrbeers@aol.com    6-11-15-10-14
GESTATIONAL SURROGATE
1 yr room & board + $500/mo + health ins.   
Prefer 20-38 Healthy + had at least 1  baby. 
Open to offers. TEXT ONLY-305 582 9800   
7-9-15-14-14DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, withgood customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
PART TIME SOCCER COACH wanted this 
summer for 8 year old boy and 6 year old girl. $30/hr plus $15 for each hour after first. Experience. Email resume and references to: rosenson@ufl.edu.    6-11-15-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
OFFICE ASSISTANT - IMMEDIATE
$8.10/hr, flex hrs, 20 hrs min. Word typing 
skills, Excel a plus. CV & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com  6-18-15-
5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-14-25-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-
15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-
25-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service
24 hrs a day. Reservations available.
Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!
Rated 5-Star on Google Play!
Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readerseach publication day.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
THE SAVING PETS CHALLENGE
ENDS JUNE 5TH
Goal: $8500
So far: $2500
Funds will Spay/Neuter & Vaccinate170 cats
Prevent spread of feline disease
Train veterinarians to use model elsewhere
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-16-173-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
25 Lost & Found 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Follow us for updates
Follow @icohenb and @graham311
for updates during Floridabaseball's Super Regional matchupwith Florida State on Friday.Aleshia Ocasio is one of ﬁ  ve Florida softball players who could help lead the Gators to a third-straight national championship next year. Read the list on pg. 19. 
Correction
An article that ran in Tuesday's paper incorrectly identiﬁ  ed Urban Meyer 
as having won back-to-back national championships at Florida. Meyer won BCS national championships in 2006 and 2008. TORRES TELLS IT
Tim Walton is building some-
thing special in Gainesville. 
With the Florida softball 
team winning its second 
consecutive national title 
on Wednesday over Michigan, he’s made Florida into the premier soft-
ball program in the nation.
And I’m going to throw out a 
word that’s been coming to my 
mind whenever I think about what Walton’s accomplished in his 10th 
season as the head coach.
That word is dynasty.
Walton has built one in the 
shadow of a university that is 
known mostly for its football and basketball programs.
His program has 
been a model of con-
sistency since he ar-rived in 2006, making postseason after post-season and being in 
the Women’s College 
World Series year in and year out.
But what was Florida softball 
like before Walton?
The program was moderately 
successful under both Larry Ray and Karen Johns, but they never did anything that really stood out.
Ray’s biggest claim to fame at 
Florida was that he was the ﬁ  rst coach of the team and he only parlayed that 
into one Southeastern 
Conference champi-onship and a NCAA Region Six Runner-Up and he had a 169-106 
record in his four sea-
sons.
Johns was more 
successful than Ray after she re-
placed him, as the team hosted 
three NCAA Regionals and was the No. 13 national seed in her ﬁ  nal season in 2005.
Johns posted a 192-131 record 
in ﬁ  ve seasons.
To give some perspective, Wal-ton has lost a total of 121 games in 10 seasons and has won 552 
games. 
That’s a winning percentage of 
.820 and he has a .785 career-win-
ning percentage when you include his three years at Wichita State. 
The highest winning percentage 
before Walton’s arrival was .681 and that was in the second year of the program’s existence under Ray 
in 1998.
Walton has done all of that, 
plus he’s led the Gators to seven 
WCWS and the championship se-ries four times. Oh and in 2008, 
Walton’s team won 70 games, 
which is the most wins in a single season in NCAA softball history.  
And one might compare what 
Walton has done to this point to arguably the greatest softball coach of all-time: Sharon Backus.
Backus was the architect of 
the ﬁ  rst dynasty in softball when 
she was the coach of the UCLA 
Bruins. Under Backus, the Bruins won eight national titles including the only three-peat ever in softball 
from 1988-90. 
Backus won her ﬁ  rst national ti-
tle in her sixth season as the coach 
of the Bruins in 1982, which was also the ﬁ  rst time the WCWS was 
played. Backus would then go on 
Tim Walton joins elite company with back-to-back national championships
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 19SOFTBALL
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
Florida softball’s outgoing senior 
class should be remembered for-
ever.
The six players on the team: Bai-
ley Castro, Jessica Damico, Lauren 
Haeger, Briana Little, Francesca 
Martinez and Kathlyn Medina will have something no other Florida softball senior class has had. 
Two national titles.All six of them have contributed 
to the program in some way during their time at UF, that ended after helping lead the team to back-to-
back titles with Florida’s 4-1 win 
over Michigan on Wednesday. 
Yes, there are some who con-
tributed more than others, like Hae-ger and Medina, but what Castro, Damico, Martinez and Little did, should not go unnoticed.
Medina wasn't known for her 
hitting, but that’s not her game.
She’ll be the ﬁ  rst one to tell you so.
But if you ask any of Florida’s 
pitchers on the staff, she was just as 
important to the team as everyone else. As the shortstop, she was the captain of the inﬁ  eld.
Over and over again, she made 
plays that saved hits and runs. She backed up Florida's pitching staff 
and made the hardest plays look 
routine.  
“I take so much pride in my de-
fense,” Medina said on April 7. "It’s where I express myself, it’s where you’ll ﬁ  nd me. … It’s what I do."
Little was a regular in the lineup 
in Southeastern Conference play. But it was her performance against Mercer this season where she went down in the UF record books.
In the ﬁ  rst game of a double-
header against the Bears on Feb. 22, Little hit three home runs and had nine RBIs.
Little's season didn't end the 
way she wanted as she struggled down the stretch. 
But coach Tim Walton still had 
faith in her, choosing her to pinch 
hit with the game on the line against Auburn in the Women’s College 
World Series. 
Damico and Martinez were two 
players who Walton counted on to come off the bench and pinch run in certain situations. Following the team's Senior Day, Walton said he trusted their base running ability and instincts.
“The most important players on 
your team are role players,” Wal-
ton said. “Role players have to do things that don’t go down on stat 
sheets.”
Walton singled out Damico as an 
example of someone who embraced the role of coming off the bench. Earlier in the season, Damico was in the platoon of outﬁ  elders Walton used in late game situations.
But as the season went along, 
freshman Nicole DeWitt emerged, and it became harder for Walton to 
ﬁ  nd a place for Damico in the out-ﬁ  eld.
Damico was never selﬁ  sh about 
being left out of the platoon and 
was always in Walton’s ear every game breaking down an opponent. 
“Jess is always in tune,” Walton 
said on April 25. “She and I have a conversation just about every day about a defensive alignment or see something that the other team does offensively.”
And then there were the two 
thumpers in the middle of the line-up: Castro and Haeger.
Castro improved each year and 
had the best season of her career this season, ﬁ  nishing with a UF sea-son-record .536 on base percentage. 
Haeger, however, improved dra-
matically in her ﬁ  nal year, especial-
ly in the circle. 
Haeger came into her ﬁ  nal sea-
son with the reputation of being a 
great hitter and a good pitcher, but this year she became the best player in the country.
Haeger was named the 2015 
USA Softball National Player of the Year prior to the WCWS. She went 
32-2 in the circle and hit 19 home 
runs and had 71 RBIs.   
Haeger is the only softball player 
in NCAA history with at least 70 ca-reer wins and 70 career home runs. 
All six seniors on the team made 
an impact somehow or someway on or off the ﬁ  eld. And all of them have made an impression that will last a 
lifetime for Walton.
“I’ve recruited these players for 
such a long time I know them all 
very very well,” Walton said on Se-nior Day. “To see them go through graduation, championships, ups and downs, it’s very memorable.”UF seniors ﬁ  rst in program history with multiple titles
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
UF shortstop Kathlyn Medina catches a pop out during Florida's 7-0 win against Kentucky during the 
2015 NCAA Super Regionals on May 23 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIIIFLORIDA SOFTBALL TEAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS IN 201518   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015
oﬀ
oﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀoﬀoﬀ
10% oﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀ
oﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀoﬀ10% oﬀ10%
Get 4 Years of 
Get 4 Years of 
Get 4 Years of 
Get 4 Years of 
Get 4 Years of 
Save up toSave up toSave up to
10% oﬀ
Get 4 Years of 
Ru/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥ
August 17th
(352) 376-4482Ru/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥRu/n.fina Dat:ﯥ
Deadlin/e_s.fina:
advertising@alligator.orgStuden/t.finaStuden/t.finaStuden/t.finaNewStuden/t.finaNewStuden/t.finaEditionStuden/t.finaNew
EditionDeadlin/e_s.fina:Deadlin/e_s.fina:Deadlin/e_s.fina:Deadlin/e_s.fina:Ru/n.fina Dat:ﯥ
Deadlin/e_s.fina:
June 12th
(save 10%)
July 10th
(save 7%)
July 31st
(save 5%)Contact your 
sales rep today and let incoming students know you’re ready for business in the
TIM WALTON - COACH LAUREN HAEGER - SENIOR KELSEY STEWART - JUNIOR
 NFCA ﬁ  rst-team All-American
 Led Florida in batting average 
(.437), hits (101), doubles (18), triples (11) and stolen bases (26) 
 Owns UF’s career records in hits (293), triples (27) and stolen bases (98)
 On pace to take Florida’s career batting average title (.412) with one season of eligibility remaining
 2015 USA Softball National Player of the Year and NFCA ﬁ  rst-team All-American
 32-2 record in the circle with a 1.23 ERA
 Led team in home runs (19), Walks (49), RBIs (71)
 Set UF’s career records for home runs (71), walks (175) and RBIs (257) 
 60 wins — Third most in program history
 Seventh Women’s College World Series berth in eight seasons
 Started the season 28-0, the longest win streak to open a season in program historyTHURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
an unprecedented run, winning 
seven titles in the next 12 years. Who’s to say Walton can’t go on 
a type of run that Backus made in 
the 80’s and 90’s? Yes, the compe-tition in softball is tougher in the present day than in the past and 
Florida plays in the toughest con-
ference in the nation, the SEC, but Walton has already won two in a row.  
With the way he reloads and re-
cruits every year, I don’t think it’s that farfetched to say that he can win every year.
And I think Walton compares 
favorably to a current collegiate coach who’s built the premier dy-nasty in all of modern day sports: UConn’s Geno Auriemma.
Hear me out.UConn had just one winning 
season before Auriemma took the job as the Huskies coach in 1985.
Compare that to Florida, as it 
wasn’t known to have a great soft-ball program until Walton arrived 
and he’s done wonders for it.
But since Auriemma went to the 
Huskies, UConn’s had ﬁ  ve perfect 
seasons under him including 10 national titles and 15 Final Fours.
Auriemma didn’t win his ﬁ  rst 
national title until his 10th season in 1994-95 while he was at the helm in Storrs, Connecticut.
Walton won his ﬁ  rst in his ninth season and won his second in his 10th. Auriemma had to wait ﬁ  ve years before capturing his sec-ond title in 1999-2000.     
Walton is already ahead of Au-
riemma in terms of fewest years to 
win two national titles and he’ll 
be ahead of his pace for the next couple of years.
Also take a look at the num-
ber of All-Americans on the ros-
ter each of them has every year. 
Walton had three on this year in Lauren Haeger, Kelsey Stewart and Aleshia Ocasio.
Plus both of them are consis-
tently bringing in the best recruits from around the country. Walton has another good class coming into the team next year, highlighted by 
one of the best high school pitch-
ers in Kelly Barnhill. Barnhill has the potential to be the ace of the staff once she’s on the team.
You might think comparing 
softball and women’s college bas-ketball is like comparing apples and oranges and that I’m crazy for comparing Walton and Auriemma, 
but just think about it. With the 
amount of resources Walton has at his disposal and the way he coaches, who’s to doubt him from 
reaching the same pinnacle as Au-
riemma?  
I certainly won’t be one of those 
doubters.  COLUMN,  from pg 17Walton becomes fourth softball coach with back-to-back titles
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
UF coach Tim Walton walks to the dugout during Florida's 1-0 win against Florida Atlantic in the 2015 
NCAA Regionals on May 17 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
AIR JORDAN
With the Florida softball team win-ning its second-consecutive na-tional title following its 4-1 win over Michigan in Wednesday’s decisive third game of the cham-
pionship series. And while coach Tim Walton has a heavy task ahead of him in replacing his six-player senior class — highlighted by 2015 National Player of the Year Lauren Hae-ger — he has pieces in place to make another deep postseason run. And with that, here’s your way-too-early list of ﬁ  ve players to watch out for in the 2016 season.
Aleshia Ocasio, RHP 
It was obvious that Ocasio played second-
ﬁ  ddle to Lauren Haeger in the circle this sea-
son, but when called upon, Ocasio produced.
 The righty ﬁ  nished with a 18-3 record in 30 
appearances, leading to a spot on the South-
eastern Conference All-Freshman team and a 
third-team All-American nod. With Haeger’s UF career in the books, Ocasio has the opportunity to become Flori-da's next No. 1 pitcher if she can 
continue to develop her pitches.
Justine McLean, OF
After starting the season on the 
bench, the speedy outﬁ  elder be-
came a regular in the lineup as the season progressed. And when she is in the lineup, she has made her 
presence known. 
The Rancho Cucamonga, Cali-
fornia, native ended the year second on the 
team with a .348 batting average with the ma-jority of her 31 hits coming from inﬁ  eld singles. Now heading into her junior year, McLean will need to continue increasing her role if she wants to stay in the starting lineup. And if she can actually hit the ball into the outﬁ  eld, who 
knows what can happen?
Kayli Kvistad, 1B/DP
Kvistad has had an interesting freshman 
season with the Gators. She started 37 games — mostly at ﬁ  rst base where she 
has platooned with fellow fresh-man Janell Wheaton and junior Taylor Schwarz — and show-cased power with her bat at times. 
Her six home runs rank third 
among players returning to the team in 2016, and Walton will 
need to ﬁ  nd a new power hitter 
to replace the production he’s los-ing at the plate in Haeger and Bai-ley Castro. If Kvistad can become 
more consistent at the plate in her sophomore year, she has the potential to be that player.
Kelly Barnhill, RHP
Barnhill is a name that most don’t know 
about, and that’s because she hasn’t played for the Gators yet. Barnhill is an incoming fresh-man pitcher who looks to continue her domi-nance at the collegiate level. A graduate of 
Marietta (Ga.) Pope High School and the No. 
1 pitcher in the 2015 class according to Full Count Softball, Barnhill has the potential to be a collegiate ace. She holds the Georgia state re-cord for most strikeouts in a season (534) and 
once tossed a seven-inning no-hitter by striking 
out all 21 batters. Only time will tell, but with Walton’s success recruiting pitchers, Barnhill has a chance to be special.
Whoever replaces Kathlyn 
Medina, SS
There’s no set answer as to who this person 
will be, but Walton has a large task at hand ﬁ  nding a new shortstop. While Medina, a ca-reer .216 hitter, was not the best at the plate, she more than made up for it by making web-
gem play after web-gem play on defense. 
She turned double plays like they were rou-
tine groundouts and had the work ethic and 
vocal leadership in the inﬁ  eld Walton values mightily over batting numbers. It’ll be tough to ﬁ  nd a  replacement for Medina. Sure, Wal-ton has options on his roster already in utility players Nicole DeWitt and Chelsea Herndon, but the shortstop position battle will be one to 
watch once February rolls around.Five UF softball players to watch for heading into 2016
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126to deal with it.”
Following the LSU series, Florida went 
21-2 in its next 23 games and won every re-
maining Southeastern Conference series, in-cluding sweeps of South Carolina, Kentucky, 
Georgia and Texas A&M.
April was particularly kind to the Gators, 
as they ﬁ  nished a perfect 15-0 in the month.
For the second year in a row, Florida failed 
to win the SEC Tournament after Tennessee 
defeated them 2-1 on May 8.
Afterward, Walton said he didn’t think the 
loss was going to fuel his team in the post-season.
“We weren’t trying to lose, we played 
hard, but I don’t know that they were moti-vated the same as they get motivated for the regionals,” Walton said on May 13. “I think it’s a totally separate entity.”
Walton was right.
Florida breezed through regional and su-
per regional play, going 5-0 while outscoring 
their opponents 22-0.
In those ﬁ  ve games, Haeger went 4-0, toss-
ing four complete-game shutouts. The senior allowed zero runs in that span and struck out 24 through 29 innings.
“When a pitcher gets on ﬁ  re, just stay out 
of her way,” Walton said after UF defeated 
Kentucky to advance to the WCWS. “Lau-
ren’s on ﬁ  re. She’s pitched very well this whole entire postseason.”
In the WCWS, Florida won three straight 
games to reach the Championship Series. The Gators won the ﬁ  rst game of the series against Michigan 3-2 on June 1 before drop-ping game two 1-0 the next day and clinching the title in game three on Wednesday night.
Florida will take a big hit following the national championship, as USA Softball Col-legiate Player of the Year Haeger graduated and was drafted by the Dallas Charge to play professional softball in the National Pro Fast-pitch league.
Returning is second baseman Kelsey Stew-
art, who holds a myriad of UF records, in-cluding career hits, batting average, triples and stolen bases. 
Freshman Aleshia Ocasio, who was an 
NFCA Third-Team All-American and went 18-3 with a 2.01 ERA, will also return likely as the ace of the staff in 2016.
Despite the hole the Haeger will leave, 
Florida has the talent to make a run for a third title in 2016. But right now, the Gators are savoring the high they’re on after success-fully defending their title.
“I honestly can’t even fathom it right 
now,” Stewart said. “We keep going up to each other and we’re like, ‘what did we just 
do?’”
A television broadcast contributed to this 
report.20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2015
SOFTBALL,  from pg 1Florida still has talent returning despite losing Lauren Haeger
AP Photo
Lauren Haeger pitches during Florida’s 4-1 win against Michigan on Wednesday in Oklahoma City.
