ABOUT 300 PEOPLE ATTENDED.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
John Nyren squeezed his eyes shut and 
belted out Sam Smith’s “Lay Me Down” on 
Monday night.
About 300 people crowded into the Reitz 
Union Grand Ballroom, where The Staff, a UF a 
cappella group, held its annual “Falala Cappel-
la” concert. This was the ﬁ  rst time it was held in the ballroom rather than the music building.
The Dartmouth Decibelles traveled to The 
Gator Nation from New Hampshire, said Edom Wessenyeleh, the group’s musical director. As the ﬁ  rst group to perform, members sang four songs, including “Hold On” by Wilson Phillips and “Santa Baby” by Eartha Kitt, which they 
ended with jazz hands.  
Dressed in Santa hats and red-and-green 
dresses and sweaters, Tone Def took the stage 
next to sing a mash-up of Lana Del Rey’s “Sum-mertime Sadness” and Calvin Harris’ “Out-side.” They then switched to seasonal favorites: “Hanukkah, O Hanukkah” and “Silver Bells.”
The loudest applause for Tone Def came 
when Nyren sang.
Although Nyren appeared calm and com-
posed on stage, he said he was shaking inside. He only started singing with Tone Def this se-mester.
“I’m not really used to singing on stage,” 
the UF computer science senior said. “I was re-ally nervous.”
In late September, Nyren said Tone Def We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 72 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015
UF women’s basketball comes from 
behind to top Arkansas State
Sophomore Haley Lorenzen scored a game-high 
19 points, pg. 13
Boarding Pass
International students visit family, pg. 3
Robots to show oﬀ   grocery shopping and ball 
collecting skills
There will be a robot competition Wednesday, pg. 8Sky high: the ﬂ  ying yogis of Gainesville
Check out the photo story featuring 
aerialists pouring wine upside down, pg. 9
UF ‘Falala cappella’ concert celebrates holidays
SEE A CAPPELLA,  PAGE 4Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
John Nyren, a 22-year-old UF computer science senior, belts out “Lay Me Down” by Sam Smith with the UF a cappella group 
T one Def at the annual “Falala Cappella” concert in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Monday. Nyren has been with the group one semester and already says he “loves them like family. ”
By Van Miller
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jessica Kneeland ﬁ  rst tried 
Chicken Salad Chick when she 
worked in Montgomery, Ala-
bama, two summers ago.
Now, the UF history junior is 
counting down the days for the restaurant’s grand opening in 
Gainesville.
“I love it,” the 20-year-old 
said. “I’m so excited it’s coming here.”
Chicken Salad Chick, a restau-
rant specializing in chicken salad, will be opening today in Univer-sity Towne Center. For the rest of 
the week, the restaurant staff will give away limited amounts of free 
food and merchandise, including 
16 weeks of free chicken salad to 
the ﬁ  rst 100 people to visit today.  
“This is something new that 
we’ve started, and it’s just a great way to build traction,” said Libby 
Massey, marketing assistant for 
the restaurant. “Our guests get to know our menu, and we get to know the community at the same 
time.”
Victor Steven, the general 
manager of the restaurant, said 
he is ordering about $24,000 to $30,000 dollars in food for this 
week’s events. Five percent of 
proceeds made on the ﬁ  rst day will go toward United Way.The restaurant, which does 
not serve alcohol, offers 15 differ-ent ﬂ  avors of chicken salad, deli sandwiches and a variety of des-serts, said Lauren Long, a corpo-
rate trainer at the restaurant.
Kneeland said she especial-
ly likes the different ﬂ  avors of 
chicken salad and enjoys using the salad as a dip. 
“People are aware of it (the 
restaurant),” Kneeland said. “I think it will deﬁ  nitely catch on.”   Chicken Salad Chick gives free foodCAMPUS
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
By 2017, UF students will 
have another study space option for ﬁ  nals week in addition to the 
tightly packed libraries.
Newell Hall, located on Sta-
dium Road directly across from 
the Hub, will be renovated into 
a $16.6-million study space by 
Spring 2017, according to a proj-ect plan sent to the Alligator from UF spokesman Steve Orlando.
The project team includes UF’s 
Division of Student Affairs, Stu-dent Government, Facilities Plan-ning & Construction, Business Services and other UF entities, ac-
cording to the plan.
Apart from the building’s in-
terior renovations, which include 
new windows, plumbing, heat-
ing, ventilation and air condition-
ing, ﬁ  re protection and electrical wiring, the new Newell Learning Commons will also include an outdoor courtyard and a restau-
rant on the ground ﬂ  oor, called 
Au Bon Pain.
Initial construction site work 
began late this Fall, Orlando 
wrote in an email. Newell Hall to be 
study center by 2017
SEE NEWELL,  PAGE 4“This is something new that 
we’ve started, and it’s just a 
great way to build traction. 
Our guests get to know our 
menu, and we get to know the 
community at the same time.”
Libby Massey
marketing assistantOpened today in GNVSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Finals Relaxation Week at 
Library West
Free neck massages will be 
given in Room 212 from 
noon until 2 p.m. today, and Wednesday there will be free pizza beginning at 5 p.m. on 
the second floor to the right of 
the circulation desk.
The Reitz Union Presents De-
Stress Study Fest
On Thursday from 11 a.m. to 
3 p.m., join us on the Reitz Union North Lawn to take a break from studying for finals 
with fun inflatable rides, your 
favorite mega-sized games, free massages provided by RecSports and free food galore. This year will also feature 
churros, pretzels and hot 
chocolate. Afterward, from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., the Reitz Union Arts and Crafts Center will be 
throwing a party with some 
free food and crafts.  Stop by to decorate a small tote bag, make some buttons or grab some pizza and drinks.
Toastmasters party is Tuesday
The Talking Gators Holiday Party and Gift Exchange will be during today’s meeting at 5:45 
p.m.  Bring a wrapped new or 
gently used gift (about $5) for the exchange table for Table Topics. Meetings are in the Entomology Building, Room 
1031, 970 Natural Area Dr. For 
more information about the club, visit the website talking-gators.toastmastersclubs.org 
or its Facebook page. 
Comedy Show
Celebrate the end of the se-
mester with a comedy show. 
“Just Kidding: A Live + Online 
Sketch Comedy Show” will be showing at the Hippodrome State Theatre on Friday and 
Saturday at 11 p.m. 
The show will feature an hour of live sketches. Tickets are limited. Get yours at justkid-dingcomedy.com.
INTERNATIONAL
U.N. climate conference in Paris
President Barack Obama 
and Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff are calling for coopera-tion between their countries to successfully conclude global cli-mate talks. Obama and Rousseff spoke by phone on Monday. The White House says they discussed progress in the talks, 
slated to wrap up on Friday, 
and that the leaders emphasized 
their "personal commitment" to achieve an ambitious agree-ment. The leaders also said 
they'd stay in touch during the 
remainder of the talks.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions 
after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 72
HIGH  72° LOW  48°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
BOARDING PASS: International students visit family
The tradition of spending the holidays with family and friends transcends languages and oceans. This Winter Break, UF international 
students won’t be so different from American students. There are about 6,000 international students studying at UF, according to the admissions website. For them, seeing their loved ones might require longer ﬂ  ights, fuller suitcases and tighter hugs. This could be some of these students’ ﬁ  rst times seeing their families and friends in more than a year. Some will be going home for the holidays.By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
From Mumbai to Manhattan
Darshil Shah is no stranger to celebrating holidays.“In India, I celebrate everything,” the second-year UF 
graduate student said.
From traditional Indian holidays, like Diwali and 
Holi, to the more universal celebrations of Christmas 
and New Year’s Eve, the 23-year-old information sys-
tems and operations management student said he likes it all.
But this year, he won’t return to his hometown of 
Mumbai, India, to celebrate the season. He said he plans to visit his sister in New York City during Christmas, and for New Year’s, he’s taking a trip to Miami and Key West with friends.
He’ll still be sending gifts, and his love, to his family 
in India.
“I actually just bought my dad an iPhone, and I 
bought my mom a Louis Vuitton bag,” he said.
He said he’ll give the gifts to a friend visiting India 
next week to deliver to his parents.
Shah will deliver his sister’s gift himself. He said she 
recently gave birth to a baby boy, and he’ll bring his new nephew toys to accompany those Santa Claus will bring.
When he returns to Gainesville, however, Shah said 
he’ll head back to work at the UF Bookstore. The federal regulation that limits international students to 20 hours of work per week doesn’t apply during the break.
He said he plans to work about 30 hours a week then, 
but for now, he’s just thinking about his sister, the Man-hattan skyline and New York’s many Indian restaurants.
“I always go to the Rockefeller Center,” Shah said. “I 
especially go there to see the Christmas tree. It’s really 
spectacular.”  
Proud to be a Florida Gator
Xu Han hasn’t seen her family in a little more than 
a year.
But over Winter Break, she will make the almost 24-
hour trip to China to visit them.
The UF second-year advertising graduate student 
said she doesn’t know what she’ll do with her family, 
but she’s excited to spend time with them.
“I think we’ll travel to some places we want to go,” 
Han, 25, said. “Maybe have dinner together and go shopping together.”
On New Year’s Eve, she’ll have her own version of 
a Times-Square countdown in the center of her home-
town, Yangzhou.
Han said her holiday isn’t complete without food, 
though. She’ll prepare traditional Eastern Chinese dish-
es of braised shredded chicken with ham and fried tofu, soup, dumplings and a meatball dish they call “lion’s head.”
She said she’s excited to celebrate Christmas, and 
she’s bringing gifts to her parents from the U.S.
She said she wants to bring The Gator Nation to 
them. For her father, she’s bringing a T-shirt that says “Gator Daddy.” For her mother, she’s gifting a Gator mug.
“I hope they’re proud to be a Gator family,” she said.
Silent night
For Abdullah Alajmi, the holiday season will be a 
time to study.
The 20-year-old UF English Language Institute stu-
dent from Kuwait will be staying in Gainesville for the break studying for the International English Language 
Testing System — or IELTS — which he needs to pass to 
apply to American universities.
He said he won’t be celebrating Christmas, but he 
wants to learn more about the American holiday season.
“I’m really interested in learning a new culture and 
seeing events and holidays and ﬁ  gure out how they cel-ebrate it,” he said.
But he said his favorite part of the break is having 
free time.  
“The best thing is a day off,” he said. “Sleep all day.”
From the States, with love
Robin Kemperman can’t wait to swap stories.The UF chemistry doctoral student will be ﬂ  ying back 
to the Netherlands to see his family for the ﬁ  rst time in a year this Winter Break.
He said he’s looking forward to telling them about 
the research he’s been working on and hearing anything he’s missed.
“I’m really excited to see my friends and family again 
and catch up on all the stories of last year,” the 23-year-old said.He’s also excited for Christmas dinner. He said he 
and his family usually prepare a large meal, which in-cludes baked ham, marinated potatoes, asparagus and green beans.
Skyping his family isn’t the same as being with them. 
He said he’ll be able to feel their emotions better when 
he ﬁ  nally sees them face-to-face.
He’s currently searching for the perfect gifts to bring 
home. He said he enjoyed his ﬁ  rst Black Friday shop-
ping experience and bought himself a TV. But he still has to search for presents for his family at The Oaks Mall.
He said he wants to get his family gifts from America 
because to give them things they can’t ﬁ  nd in Europe.
“Of course I want to get something that’s more typi-
cal Floridian or American thing, or a Gator thing,” he said.
Christmas comes late
Hannah Gintberg Dees will have an American Christ-
mas for the ﬁ  rst time this year.
The 20-year-old UF theatre sophomore from Den-
mark will spend the holiday season with her American father in Texas.
This is the ﬁ  rst year she won’t spend Christmas in 
her home country.
She said she’ll miss the quirky Danish Christmas tra-
ditions.
In Denmark, Christmas is celebrated on Dec. 24, 
rather than Dec. 25. Dees said after a day of eating and spending time at church, she and her Danish family place their Christmas tree in the center of the room and sing and dance around it.
They also play a traditional Danish game in which 
someone hides an almond in rice pudding, and every-one eats the pudding to try and ﬁ  nd it. Whoever ﬁ  nds it ﬁ  rst wins a prize, usually a marzipan pig to celebrate Denmark’s main livestock and export.
But in Texas, she’s not sure what to expect. She said 
she thinks she’ll just wake up on Christmas Day and open presents with her dad.
“I miss Denmark a lot,” she said. “Christmas is such 
a big thing in Denmark, a much bigger thing than it is here. But I think it’ll be fun to try an American Christ-mas with my American family.”4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015
“The Newell Hall Learning Commons will 
be a centrally-located, 21st-century study 
and collaboration space serving all Universi-
ty of Florida students,” according to the plan.
Over winter break, workers will also ren-
ovate the section of Stadium Road between 
Newell and the Hub, and they will add a new Regional Transit Systems bus queue and a pedestrian crosswalk, Orlando said.
Originally built in 1910, Newell Hall func-
tioned as a research laboratory for the Insti-tute of Food and Agricultural Science from the 1940s until 2012, when it was closed off 
because of its old age, according to the proj-
ect plan. Last year, Newell Hall was cleared of asbestos, Orlando said.
Today, the building is home to construc-
tion workers, who will renovate the building 
until it is “substantially complete” in 2017, 
according to the plan.
But UF public relations senior Hannah 
Kaye said UF needs to focus on giving stu-
dents space to study now.  
The 22-year-old made laps around Li-
brary West on Monday, hoping to find an 
open seat for her and a friend. But after a few searches, she gave up and begrudgingly 
went to Marston Science Library.
Kaye will graduate before she’ll find an 
open seat in Newell Hall. She said a year and 
a half is too long of a wait.
“It’s crowded,” she said. “We’re spending 
more time looking for seats than studying.”NEWELL,  from pg 1A new bus queue will be addedLOCAL
By Jessica Morales
Alligator Contributing Writer
On Wednesday, the largest 
statewide LGBT civil rights orga-nization is coming to Boca Fiesta.
Equality Florida, an organiza-
tion focused on promoting LGBT rights, will be discussing issues and goals for the upcoming year 
Wednesday from 6:30 p.m. to 
8:30 p.m.
“Even though we’ve had many 
amazing recent victories in the LGBT movement, we know that 
our work is far from over,” said 
Hannah Willard, the policy and outreach coordinator for Equality Florida.
The free event, which has 
occurred over the past couple years, will include complimenta-ry snacks and happy hour drink specials.
Willard said one of the fo-
cuses will be trying to pass the Florida Competitive Workforce Act, which will provide statewide non-discrimination protection for 
lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans-
gender people.
She said because members 
of the community now have the freedom to marry, there has been a huge increase in transgender visibility in Florida. 
A lot of members in the com-
munity, said Willard, have come in and joined their fight for more rights.
“Our next step is to make sure 
that no matter who you are or who you love, you can earn a liv-ing, provide for your family and live a better life,” said Willard.
Jasmine Schwadron, a UF 
marine sciences freshman, said she thinks this event is a way to make the LGBT community more accepted.
“I think that’s something that 
people should know more about and become more accepting of,” said Schwadron. “I think educa-
tion can get that across.”LGBT conference to meet with chips
By Sara Perlman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Over the past 14 years, UF’s Of-
fice of Technology Licensing has 
launched more than 175 biomedi-cal and technology startups.
Nationally, UF is within the top 
10 in both its number of research licenses and startups, ranking sev-enth for licenses and eighth for startups out of 250 institutions, according to a recently published licensing survey from the Associa-tion of University Technology Man-agers. Licenses are used for inven-tions and will help a researcher get 
a patent for his or her product.
UF’s office is well established 
and well staffed, said David Day, 
its assistant vice president and di-rector.“We’ve got a great university 
and great research program filled with scientists that are making the 
world a better place,” he said.
UF scientists create more than 
300 inventions each year, and the 
office accepts about 60 percent of them, Day said.
Usually, the licensing office 
finds an existing company to take on the invention and invest money into it. Other times, Day said the of-
fice will help create a startup.
With the help of the office, UF 
computer and information sciences 
and engineering professor Benja-min Lok started Shadow Health, an interactive software to train nurses at more than 800 nursing schools.
“The Office of Technology Li-
censing connected me with inves-
tors and local entrepreneurs,” Lok 
said.UF ranked in top 10 
for licenses, startups
started practicing “Lay Me Down.” 
“All these people are like my 
family,” the 22-year-old said. “I love 
them so much.”
For the first time, Gator Awaaz 
performed at the Falala concert.  The members of UF’s South Asian a cap-pella group sang “Blank Space” by Taylor Swift and then mixed in Hindi and Tamil songs. They finished by 
crooning Swift’s lyrics, “But I’ve got 
a blank space, baby, and I’ll write your name.”
Ruth Antony, a member of Gator 
Awaaz, said the group wanted to perform with UF’s other a cappella groups.
“We just wanted to use pop cul-
ture with some Indian music,” the 
UF biology sophomore said.
The 18-year-old said the group 
wanted students to know UF has a 
Bollywood-style group.
“We just hope everybody gets to know there’s diversity on campus,” Antony said.
UF marine sciences freshman 
Sebastian Slagel said he particularly 
liked listening to Gator Awaaz’s 
multi-lingual songs. He didn’t know UF had a South Asian a cappella group.
“It’s nice to see the different cul-tural groups,” the 19-year-old said.
Shahzaade Robinson, a UF nurs-
ing senior, said it was her first time attending Falala Cappella, and she 
liked the break from studying.
“It helps bring the Christmas spir-
it into the last week of finals,” the 
21-year-old said.
A CAPPELLA,  from pg 1It was the first time Gator Awaaz performed in Falala Cappella
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF plans to finish the renovations to Newell Hall in Spring 2017. The $16.6-million 
study space project will include a new roof, new windows, plumbing, fire protection and interior renovations for the new “Learning Commons. ” The south of the building will include a new courtyard.
“Our next step is to make sure 
that no matter who you are 
or who you love, you can earn 
a living, provide for your 
family and live a better life,”
Hannah Willard
policy and outreach coordinator 
for Equality Florida
A Look Into Newell Hall’s Past
• Newell Hall was constructed in 
1910, two years before the RMS Titanic struck an iceberg in the North Atlantic Ocean.
• It was added to the National Reg-ister of Historic Places in 1979.
• Originally dubbed the Agricul-tural Experiment Station, Newell Hall was first closed in the 1930s due to concerns with “structural overloading and deficient electri-cal wiring.”
• About a decade later, it was again closed for construction.
• Newell was later used as the labo-ratory for what would become the 
Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences until 2012, when it was vacated for a third time.
• Come 2017, a new Learning Com-mons will rise from the rubble.
- Martin Vassolo, Alligator StaffTUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
IT’S FUNDED BY THE 
JAPANESE MINISTRY OF 
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
Twenty-three UF students will ﬂ  y 
to Tokyo on Monday morning.
For the ﬁ  rst time, UF students 
will learn Japanese culture on an 
eight-day, all-expenses-paid trip. 
They are traveling as part of the Ka-
kehashi Project, a youth exchange program funded entirely by the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said trip chaperone Ann Wehmeyer, a UF professor in the Department of Languages, Literatures, and Cul-tures.
The students, who are all study-
ing Japanese, will be accompanied 
by two UF professors from the de-
partment, she said.
“It’s a one-time opportunity, and 
various schools across the United States are selected to participate,” Wehmeyer said.
About 4,600 high school and col-
lege students in Japan and the U.S. have visited each other’s countries 
in the two years since the Kakehashi Project began, according to the Ja-
pan Foundation website.
Once in Japan, students will visit 
Tokyo’s metropolitan area before boarding a bullet train to Iwate, a town in the northeastern part of Ja-
pan’s main island of Honshu. For 
two days, the students will live with a group of host families.
Yasuo Uotate, a UF senior lec-
turer in the same department and the second chaperone, said the trip will bridge the gap between the two countries. In Japanese, “Kakehashi”   translates to “bridge.”
After living in Japan for the ﬁ  rst 
20 years of his life, Uotate said he’s looking forward to showing students a side of the country they could nev-er learn in their classes alone.
Forty-three UF students applied 
to take the trip in October, he said. The application was limited to stu-dents currently enrolled in Japanese 
courses and who have never trav-eled to the country before.
“It’s gonna be I think, like, really 
eye-opening,” he said.
Steffanie Craig, a UF Japanese 
language and literature junior who 
will take the trip, said living with a host family will be an interesting 
cultural experience.
“I’m excited to see what a Japa-
nese household is like and how the 
family interacts with one another,” the 24-year-old wrote in an email.
Craig said nothing compares to 
learning about a culture ﬁ  rsthand.
“I feel that when you learn from 
a textbook there is only so much you 
can truly understand,” she said. UF students to visit Japan for free, learn customs and culture
Photos by Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
BOBA BREAK
Alexa Kuk (left), a 19-year-old UF computer science sophomore, sips boba tea with Nicole Renuart, 
a 19-year-old UF advertising sophomore, outside Library West on Monday afternoon. Kuk said she enjoys using campus as a place to relax and spend time with friends and prefers to study in her room at home.
“It’s a one-time opportunity, 
and various schools across the 
United States are selected to 
participate.” 
Ann Wehmeyer
UF Languages, Literatures, and 
Cultures professor
A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY
Sharron Bowker (left) smiles as 8-year-old Fara, a golden retriever, greets students Monday at Library West. Booker said this was Fara’s second trip to the library to de-stress students during exams. Her first time was during midterms this semester.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWinter blues 
and ﬁ  nals make 
for a depressing 
combination
The winter blues, or as they call it in the medicinal 
biz, “seasonal affective disorder,” is a phenomenon that does not distinguish between age, creed or col-
or. Whether you’re killing the proverbial game as an 
academically exceptional, sexually active frat star or 
you’re more of the type to quietly mill about one of Gaines-ville’s many coffee shops and debate whether latter-day Mor-
rissey matches the height of his lyrical prowess during his 
time with The Smiths (hint: it doesn’t), the slight ﬂ  uctuation in temperature and ever-subtle changing of leaf color leaves many curled up in bed.
For college students, the winter blues are exacerbated by 
the exciting, riveting period of time known as ﬁ  nals. We’ll concede that ﬁ  nals seem to hit non-liberal arts majors harder, what with your theorems, labs and what-have-you, but the stress of ﬁ  nals, combined with the omnipresent threat of en-
tering the real world, irritates and afﬂ  icts us all.
Overcoming one’s winter blues — and ﬁ  nals by associa-
tion — means acting with purpose, discipline and perspec-
tive. No, your bed is not an appropriate place to study, comfy though it may be: Assuming you’re depressed AND stressed 
about ﬁ  nals, you’re only making it harder on yourself. Like-
wise, as necessary as a session of Token Tuesday down at the Top may be, science and pop culture have shown alcoholism has never been all that effective of a coping mechanism.
Depression can be a nightmare to fend off, and the pres-
sure applied by ﬁ  nals certainly makes retreating into bed or a bottle seem almost reasonable. With that in mind, there are a few things we recommend you do in the week ahead to keep both your insanity and your GPA aﬂ  oat.
First and foremost, take some time to step outside. It’s go-
ing to be easy and incredibly tempting to stay indoors for a solid portion of the next week, in the process lying to both yourself and your friends about how much studying you’re 
actually getting done. Even though it might not seem like 
you’ll be able to ﬁ  t it into your oh-so-busy schedule, take a break.
We can’t emphasize this one enough: Sleep. We at the 
Alligator know perhaps better than most that sleeping and 
being a college student is an inherent contradictory proposi-
tion. Believe us, we’re sympathetic to the cause. But, if we’ve learned anything in our time here, it’s that if you’re going to bomb an exam, you’re going to feel much better having done 
so with four hours of sleep rather than none.
It is unfortunate ﬁ  nals coincide with a time of year that 
is wrought with emotion. For some, holidays and imminent 
trips to see families sometimes serve to stir up even more emotions, rather than act as comfort. Even if it doesn’t seem 
like it, ﬁ  nals, like the semester, will end. We can’t promise 
that you’ll feel better once they do, but you won’t have to get up at 7:30 a.m. anymore… at least until next semester begins.
The end of the semester is a time for reﬂ  ection
For the next week, any room with a 
Wi-Fi connection and four walls will be overrun by over-caffeinated under-grads frantically typing, highlighting or scribbling. Most conversations will be 
haunted by looming deadlines, libraries will be ﬁ  lled to capacity and everyone in your life will claim to be “burnt out.” With the end of the semester comes not only a heightened state of anxiety, but also the opportunity to reﬂ  ect on any lessons learned in the last four months (and the chance to successfully pro-crastinate at the same time).
The Fall semester is traditionally characterized as the 
busiest time of the year for college students, and for good reason. After a summer of pesky general educa-tion courses, arguing with your parents over your high school-era 11 p.m. curfew or masquerading as a real adult at your unpaid internship, practically everyone’s ready to dive back into school as soon as August rolls around. But before we know it, those four months have passed in a blur of late-night panic, and we’re left won-dering what it all meant and what Spring could possibly 
bring.
Despite this semester feeling like one prolonged 
stumble, I did learn a few things along the way. Hope-
fully you identify with at least one of these delayed rev-elations.
1. Don’t be afraid to take on a new responsibility. It 
may seem impossible to factor another obligation into your life, but if you truly care about it, you’ll make it work. Four months ago, I was given the opportunity 
to have my own column in the Alligator, and I almost 
didn’t take it. I was offered it while running on a sleep deﬁ  cit and corralling 1,800 bright-eyed girls around So-rority Row. In the midst of that chaos, I couldn’t imag-ine taking on another responsibility. I accepted on a whim, and now I couldn’t imagine my life without it.
2. Learn how to grow a thick skin. Having an outlet 
to publish your thoughts to 50,000 people may seem idyllic, but it forces you to accept the real-ity that every week, someone is going to disagree with you. Some of them may keep their thoughts to themselves, and others may write a long-winded letter to the editor call-
ing you “ignorant.” Sensitivity has always 
been one of my weaknesses, but I was forced to quickly overcome it or lose something I loved. There’s no such thing as a neutral top-ic, and you have to live with the likelihood that somewhere, somehow, you’re going to offend someone. Have a backbone and stand 
behind your views — just don’t be an asshole about it.
3. Enjoy where you are in life. With each day, 
more of my friends receive acceptances from graduate schools and make plans to embark on that ever-elusive journey to adulthood. It’s easy to forget I’m not tag-ging along, and it is not so easy to imagine being at UF without them. Junior year is unique in that you feel so far removed from both the energetic freshmen anx-iously cramming for What is the Good Life? and the jad-ed seniors ruminating about their imminent departure. Sometimes it’s hard to enjoy this bizarre limbo state, 
but it’s a matter of taking it day by day.
4. Pretending you have your life together is half the 
battle. I’ll be the ﬁ  rst to admit I typically have no idea 
what I’m doing in most situations. However, for some unbeknownst reason, people mistakenly believe I “re-ally have my life together.” I’m not totally sure what this means other than I apparently don’t give off the impression of someone who’s constantly anxious about something… which, let me be clear, I am. But when you 
take a step back and see yourself from someone else’s 
perspective, you’ll be surprised how far you’ve come in the last month, semester or year.
So take a break from catastrophizing and consider 
your own semester. It may have been the hardest one yet, but at least you learned something along the way.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgLetter to the Editor
Dear Editor,
My name is Erica Baker, and I was ap-
pointed Supervisor of Elections for the 
2015-2016 year. I am writing in reference 
to inaccurate information that has been shared by the Independent Florida Alli-gator and Student Body President Joselin 
Padron-Rasines during her recent State of 
the Campus Address.
As the Supervisor of Elections, it is my 
responsibility to ensure that all students are able to participate in the elections pro-cess. Similar to elections that take place across America, our students have the op-portunity to go to the polls and fulfill their 
civic duty. If a student is unable to attend 
the polls on either day of elections, we have an absentee ballot process to ensure that our students are heard. This upcoming 
Spring, any student, including students in 
PaCE or UF Online, can submit an absentee ballot request before Feb. 3, and my office will work to ensure they are able to vote.
During her recent speech, Student Body President Padron-Rasines mentioned a PaCE student, Paige Fry, who she claimed was unable to vote in last semester’s 
elections because she lived outside of 
Gainesville. She said that this student did not have the ability to vote and was be-ing disenfranchised from the political pro-
cess. I want all Gators to know, including 
our Student Body president, that you ALL have the ability to vote, and we have had hundreds of students that have utilized our absentee ballot option.I am writing to make all students aware 
of this option and encourage all of our elected officials, and the Independent Flor-
ida Alligator, to promote our Student Gov-
ernment resources. It is my hope that this letter serves as a first step in addressing many of the misconceptions about voting 
on campus, and I am always available for 
questions or comments on our procedures.
Thank you and Go Gators,
Erica Baker
Student Government Supervisor of ElectionsTUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 
In the Alligator’s coverage of 
UF graduate assistants’ strug-gle for fair pay, UF Provost Joseph Glover is quoted as saying, “(Graduate Assistants 
United’s) position is they want a lot of weight for people on the lower end,” referring to GAU’s proposal to redistribute student fees. In this model, GAs with the lowest income would pay pro-portionally less in fees, and GAs with more income would pay proportionally more in fees. According to Glover, this “would 
be unfair to the people who are working 
hard, who are at the higher end of the pay scale.” Presumably, this means Glover is working extremely hard, since he’s paid over $300,000 a year and doesn’t have to pay fees to work at UF. Plus, there’s his $50,000 raise in 2010. Compare this to the 2-percent raise for GAs currently offered by negotiator Bill Connellan. (In case Connel-
lan doesn’t know, a 2-percent increase in 
poverty is still poverty.)
Glover’s comments are profoundly in-
sulting for a couple of reasons: His stance is that the poorest GAs are poor because they don’t work hard. So, if they work harder does that mean they’ll get a fair pay increase? No, because it would be impos-sible to imagine how any GA could plau-
sibly work harder. There’s teaching loads, 
lesson planning, grading and office hours, plus all the graduate coursework and dis-sertations, becoming experts and so on. I’ve never known a non-hardworking GA. In fact, the hours allocated to teaching un-dergrads at UF, as stipulated in GA con-tracts, don’t accurately describe the time necessarily spent on the labors of teaching. GAs’ stipends also vary depend-ing on which department they teach in, so Glover is dismiss-ing whole academic disciplines as lazy and undeserving of fair 
treatment and compensation.
Now, this exploitation is great 
for you if you’re an undergradu-
ate student at UF. You get to take courses taught by very smart, very hardworking people who 
will give you a fantastic education pre-cisely because they are willing to go above and beyond their job description. Imagine 
if GAs didn’t do this: Bye, GPA.
UF, in fact, bargains on the fact that 
GAs’ enthusiasm and work ethic will hold 
out despite the inequality. And they do hold out: The work gets done, and then some, no matter what UF pays. So why should they be interested in anything like providing fair compensation? And the sta-tus quo remains because GAs can’t strike.
GAU proposed to redistribute the weight 
of graduate student fees and remove the burden from poverty liners, but that pro-posal was entirely too rational for UF to ac-cept. Which isn’t to say UF doesn’t have rationale. In The Washington Post, Glover is quoted regarding UF Online enrollments: “The market for freshman (sic) is by no means clear anywhere in the country,” 
and UF is “trying different things to iden-
tify that market.” To be clear: If you are a freshman at UF, you are, to Glover, a mar-ket niche. Your education is a commodity. For GAs, your education is your education.
Mitch R. Murray is a Ph.D. Candidate 
and graduate fellow in the UF Department of English.
Undergrads face grad bargaining issuesGuest column
Mitch Murray
Speaking OutSticky notes and colored page markers are thrown in our faces. Highlighters and brightly colored pens are heavily advertised. Sep-
arate notebooks, folders and book organizers are encouraged for each respective class we take. Teachers say one thing in class and, more than likely, an email will follow with different or new information. Those colored pens and class material all end up on one iconic notebook: the planner.
This little book is supposed to help people 
organize their week and successfully execute whatever projects or seminars need to be handled that day. However, planners are de-ceiving devices. These notebooks are adept at helping students plan for the future, but they become a hideous to-do list the day tasks need to be completed. Why do we shy away from the plans until the day we need to accomplish them?
We have gone through those rough morn-
ings. The moment that alarm goes off is the instant we all wish we could roll over and bury ourselves under a mountain of sheets and pillows. This is an issue that antagonizes our relationship to planners. Ideas and goals are best accomplished in the morning when we feel rested and our willpower is stronger. Whether you slept for three or eight hours, 
your mind is sharpest right after you wake up.
The issue is our fear of mornings and our 
hatred of the phrase, “Early to bed, early to 
rise” when the college norm is “late to bed, late to rise.” If you wait to roll yourself out of bed until the morning is almost over, you won’t have much time to cross things off your planner. The afternoon is full of class, exer-cise, clubs and jobs. Also, as the day goes on, your willpower gradually depletes and leaves you feeling lethargic.
But, those plans and homework 
assignments need to be crossed off one way or another. Therefore, 
we find ourselves wasting away in 
the library after midnight because those little notes crept on us again. As the night progresses and your focus dwindles, you start to move assignments and tasks to the next 
day. It feels easy to do when your brain feels like Play-Doh, but the same feelings will re-turn the next day. And, because you had to 
stay up late, morning will turn into midday. 
The same vicious cycle continues.
Planners are supposed to lend a helping 
hand by organizing the mess that is our extra-curricular activities, school and social life and help us accomplish tasks day by day. They list what has to be done but end up stressing us out. As we add more things to a schedule and cross, circle or highlight them, they simply be-
come things to get done.
Eventually, coffee dates with friends, vol-
unteer activities and fun extracurricular events 
will also become another homework assign-ment. Our time for friends and fun activities become another note that has to be pushed to another day or week before they're ultimately forgotten. That lunch date with an old friend becomes something that has to get done.
So, maybe a planner is more than just piec-
es of paper bound together. It’s an extension of our minds and has the ability to keep us in the moment. We don’t have to worry about what is coming next. It’s already written, and when that task comes, we can feel confident in our capacity to complete it.
A version of this column by Jessica Foster 
originally ran in The Emerald.
You’re not slave to your plannerUWire
Jessica Foster
UWire8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015
Katelyn Irvin / Alligator
BRAIN BUCKET
Ana Fajardo, a 22-year-old UF women’s studies alumna, snaps 
her helmet on as she prepares to lead Weekly Women’s Ride at the Freewheel Project on Monday night. The 13-mile week-ly bike rides are moderately paced. “Group rides are usually just guys, and I wanted to make an event to promote women’s cycling, ” Fajardo said.
By Carel Lajara
Alligator Contributing Writer
Just in time for the holiday sea-
son, McDonald’s is reaching out to 
the community.
During the month of December, 
for each Happy Meal purchased in 
Alachua County, McDonald’s will 
donate Happy Meal redemption cards to the Bread of the Mighty Food Bank. The nonprofit organiza-tion serves five counties surrounding the Gainesville area.
Loretta Griffis, the community 
outreach director for Bread of the Mighty Food Bank, said McDon-
ald’s representatives approached her about participating in the program 
in June. While the promotion began running weekly soon after, Decem-
ber is the first month in which cards 
can be earned every day.
Since June, the food bank has re-
ceived about 5,000 meal cards.
“To think that a lot of kids don’t 
get the chance to eat a Happy Meal, never even step into a McDonald’s,” Griffis said. “With this, they are be-ing blessed.”
It is estimated that 225,000 Hap-
py Meals will be donated to those children in 2016. This comes out to about 600 free meals served to local children a day, according to a press release provided by Joe Wolf, an ac-count executive for Dalton, the na-tional McDonald’s public relations firm. He declined to comment.
Additional McDonald’s locations 
in northeast Florida and southeast Georgia are also participating in the drive. 
“We wanted to help our local 
community — our neighbors — ad-dress this serious problem of food insecurity,” said Calvin Paris, an owner of Alachua County McDon-ald’s franchises, in the press release.
Enrique Lam, a UF business ad-
ministration junior, said even though he normally doesn’t purchase Happy 
Meals, the donation is a good incen-
tive.
“I think it’s lovely considering it’s 
the holiday season,” the 20-year-old said. “I’ll definitely buy one.”McDonald’s donates Happy Meal cards By Andrea Carla Lopez
Alligator Contributing Writer
For some low-income students, it’s especially great to 
be a Florida Gator.
College enrollment for low-income students dropped 
10 percent nationally in the past five years, according to a recent report by the American Council on Education. 
But a slightly higher number of low-income students 
have applied to UF compared with last year, said Andrea Felder, director of freshman and international admis-sions.
“The university has a commitment to recruiting stu-
dents from low-income backgrounds,” Felder said. 
Felder said helping low-income students is a priority 
for UF. The university is committed to providing finan-cial aid opportunities to students they’re considering ad-
mitting to UF, and she said UF staff travel to low-income areas to give students financial aid information.
More federal aid has been made available in the past 
seven years. Since the 2008-2009 school year, available federal financial aid has increased from $82 billion to 
$123 billion, according to the report.
Bianca Serrano, a UF biology freshman, said she un-
derstands some students may be scared of enrolling in colleges because they fear student debt.
But she said she doesn’t think students should be ac-
cepted solely because of their low-income status.
“I think it plays a very important role but should not 
limit anyone from not obtaining a good education,” the 
18-year-old said.
But UF biology freshman Tianna Thomeson, who 
identifies as a low-income student, said she thinks UF 
should offer more scholarships.  
“The school didn’t help me much, if I’m being hon-
est,” the 18-year-old said. “I had to get student loans.”Low-income student applications rise 
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
Robots will zoom around UF on Wednes-
day afternoon.
Nine UF students will show off their 
robots at the New Engineering Building’s 
Harris Rotunda from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. The robots, some of which can help people shop for groceries and collect tennis and 
golf balls, cost between $200 and $900 
each to complete.
The students who are a part of the com-
petition are in the Intelligent Machine De-sign Lab class at UF. This semester, there 
were 15 students in the class, and the best 
robots were selected for the competition.
“Only the best are going to be invited 
to the show,” said Eric Schwartz, the asso-
ciate director of UF’s Machine Intelligence 
Lab.
While 15 students usually take the 
class, 37 are enrolled for Spring. This is mostly because the professor who teaches 
the class, Antonio Arroyo, will be retiring 
after next semester, he said. 
Schwartz said robots made in the class 
must operate on their own.
“When it’s controlled, we don’t call that 
a robot,” he said. “We call that a stupid machine.”
Students are encouraged to channel 
their creativity into their robot designs and names, Schwartz said.
Izhar Shaikh, a UF electrical and com-
puter engineering master’s student, said it 
took him two and a half months and $400 
to build his robot “Si-Fo,” short for Sign Follower.
The robot reads arrows on signs and fol-
lows their directions, the 22-year-old said. If the sign has a right arrow, the robot will turn until it sees another sign and go to it.
Building Si-Fo was challenging, Shaikh 
said. Originally, he wanted the robot to detect color, not shape. But color changed if the lighting of a room did, which made 
creating Si-Fo difficult.
Shaikh said he wanted the robot he built 
to be unrestricted by language: Pictures are 
universal.
“It doesn’t matter if they know any lan-
guage or not — they understand it,” he said.Robots to show off grocery shopping and ball collecting skills
Courtesy to the Alligator
PerFoRo, short for Person Following Robot, was built by Sarthak Kaingade for his Intel-
ligent Machine Design Lab class’ robot demonstration at UF’s New Engineering Building on Wednesday. The 23-year-old UF electrical and computer engineering master’s stu-dent built the robot in two and a half months, and it cost him $400 dollars. The robot is designed to be a shopping cart that follows its user.
CAMPUS
“Only the best are going to be invited to 
the show.”
Eric Schwartz
associate director of UF’s Machine Intel-
ligence LabPartnered with food bankTUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Sky high: the ﬂ  ying yogis of Gainesville
Kelly Ulmer, a 25-year-old AscenDance aerialist and mental health 
counselor, swings from a lyra at Market Street Pub & Cabaret. Ulmer said she got bored with yoga and tried out an aerial arts class at S-Con-nection Aerial Arts, which started her love for the craft.LEFT:
Slipping through silk, Kelly Ulmer performs an aerial dance with three other aerial artists at the Electro Aerial Show. She has been aerial dancing for two years, and she said silks are her favorite.
BELOW:
Ulmer pours wine upside down at Market Street Pub & Cabaret dur-ing the bimonthly Electro Aerial Show on Dec. 5. Attendees paid to have them pour beer and wine while hanging from a lyra, a steel hoop hung by one or two ropes.
From left to right, T atyana Kimble, Becca Burton, and Kelly Ulmer perform trapeze at the “Country Circus: Aquatic Dream Show” at Two Hawk Hammock in Williston on Nov. 21.
Photos by Kali Kavouklis / AlligatorBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For 
August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-
2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
12-9-15-17-2
3300 SW 23rd St. Apt #1, 2BR/1BA w/ small 
separate study/office, large screened porch & W/D hk-ups, floors: tile & wood, new kitch-en. $800/mo. $950 sec dep. Pets ok w/add'l fees. Call 352-371-3473 pls leave mssg.    12-9-15-8-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
One bedroom/one bath in 4br/4bath condo $350/mo. Countryside condominiums, 4000 SW 23rd St. Includes Internet, cable TV lami-nate flooring, washer & dryer. Furnished or unfurnished. 1st floor location. Students only. Call Bill (407) 620-0401    12-9-15-8-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-12-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-121For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 2For Rent
unfurnished8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $595
00 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-5-15-5-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       1-5-15-36-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-5-15-5-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOEStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    12-9-15-17-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-
ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled 
$8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com     
1-8-15-11-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches is now hiring 
deli/bar help. No experience required. Must have reliable transportation. Applications ac-cepted at either 2327 NW 13th St or 5156 SW 34th St location.   12-9-15-6-14
Full Charge Bookkeeper
(SW Gainesville, FL) 
Looking for an experienced Accountant/ 
Full-Charge Bookkeeper needed to work full 
time for a finance/investment firm. Candidate 
must be detail oriented, punctual, dedicated, 
and responsible. Must also possess a strong 
work ethic and the ability to handle multiple 
projects. Salary is negotiable and may be 
adjusted based on experience and skill set. 
Email: susie@strategicgroup.org    1-5-15-
3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 __-Saxon
6 Swedish quartet
10 “Woe is me!”14 Plain-paper
copier pioneer
15 Rider’s strap16 Hitchhiker’s ride17 “Revenge” co-
star VanCamp
18 Drug cop19 Words to an old
chap
20 Doughnut order:
Abbr.
21 *“I don’t want to
belong to anyclub that willaccept me as amember”speaker
24 Potsdam pair26 Bum kin27 In great detail31 Keyed into the
register
35 Votes against
36 Slender
woodwind
38 Loy of “The Thin
Man”
39 Belief suffix
40 Artist Moses ...
and, whendivided into threeparts, a hint to theanswers tostarred clues
42 N.C. State’s
conference
43 Step45 Pitchers Darling
and Guidry
46 Singer Lovett47 __-weensie49 Paid for the
release of
51 Dynamic
opening?
53 Cake served au
rhum
54 *Score-settling
competition
59 Indent key
62 Forfeited auto
63 __ San Lucas:
Baja resort
64 Bandleader Shaw66 Cupid
67 Gradual melting
68 Marsh stalks
69 With 11-Down,
Louvre
masterpiece
70 Get wise with
71 Central Park’s
843DOWN
1 Gave the boot
2 Jules Verne
captain
3 *2005
documentary
about a bear
enthusiast
4 Cyberchuckle
5 Scuba gear
element
6 River of Pisa7 Belle’s beloved8 White state tree
of NewHampshire
9 News show VIP
10 Payment after a
divorce
11 See 69-Across
12 Quite a long
distance away
13 River of Hades
22 Harshness23 44th president25 Director Craven27 Ouzo flavoring28 Aesthetic
judgment
29 Vanishing ski
resort apparatus
30 Wedding vows
word
32 *Brains,
figuratively
33 Cry of surrender34 Measured in
steps
37 Poet __ St.
Vincent Millay
40 Norwegian
composer
Edvard
41 News network
with a six-colorlogo
44 Dancer Duncan46 Return from
Venus?
48 Builds50 North African
expanse
52 Nebraska city54 Fat measure55 San __, Italy56 In the know about57 “Down with,” in
Paris
58 Auto club
services
60 Assistant61 Porgy’s beloved65 Camcorder
button
By Ed Sessa©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/08/1512/08/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, December 8, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 20 Event Notices 23 Rides 18 Personals 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
UF cross country's 
upperclassmen are passing the torch to the younger runners so they can continue their legacy. Read the story on pg. 14. GATORS PLAY MICHIGAN 
IN CITRUS BOWL
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Bowl games might count on 
season records, but bowl season 
is unlike any other part of the year.
Teams have varying levels of 
motivation once the regular sea-son is over and their goals have or have not been met.
Players are contemplating 
their futures and whether playing hard for one more game is in their best interest.
Coaches are using the extra 
month of practice as an exten-sion of spring practice, evaluating players who will be back and who can emerge for the next season, while also trying to maintain the momentum from the season to be ready for the bowl.
These are all the things that 
coach Jim McElwain will deal with over the next month. But for a man trying to build a sustaining program, he views this month as a chance to do just that.
“I look at this bowl opportuni-
ty and practice to really help your 
team get better, not only for this 
ball game but for the long-term future,” McElwain said. “Get a lot of our young guys a lot of quality practice back in.”
McElwain isn’t making any 
claims to know whether or not all of his players will be totally fo-
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Jim McElwain earns coaching award
Florida football coach Jim McElwain has been named the 2015 AFCA FBS 
Region Two Coach of the Year, the American Football Coaches Association announced on Monday. The Gators are 10-3 in McElwain's first season and clinched their first SEC East Division Title since 2009.UF begins bowl game preparation
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain walks on the field during warmups before Florida's 29-15 loss to Alabama on 
Saturday in the Georgia Dome in Atlanta.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writer
@ebaueri
It wasn’t easy, but as it of-
ten has this season, the Florida 
women’s basketball team found a way to win. 
Trailing by as many as 11 
points late in the third quar-ter and with their star player forced to sit out because of foul trouble, the Gators (7-1) relied on their depth and came out of the O’Connell Center with a 76-72 victory on Monday night against Arkansas State (4-2).
Sophomore Haley Lorenzen 
led the Gators with 19 points on 7-of-8 shooting, the second highest total of her career. 
The game also marked Flori-
da coach Amanda Butler's 200th career victory.
“I’m just happy we won to 
be honest with you," Butler said. "I didn’t even know that 
was the case until after the ball 
game.”
The game was evenly 
matched in the first half, as 
teams went into the locker room with the score tied at 33. 
Arkansas State senior for-
ward Khadija Brown-Haywood paced the Red wolves with 15 points, five rebounds and three steals in the first half. 
The next-closest first half 
scorer was redshirt senior guard Aundrea Gamble with six.  
Leading up to the game, But-ler said that Gamble was a “fu-ture pro,” so the Gators clearly 
prepared for her. 
Fortunately for the Red 
Wolves, Brown-Haywood was 
there to make up for that. 
“We talked about what a 
scorer (Brown-Haywood) was, we did. She just really came to play, and you’ve just got to tip your hat to her,” Butler said. 
“We fully expected (Brown-
Haywood) to play like a scor-er — we just didn’t do a very good job of adjusting when she seemed to be hitting everything that she shot.”
For UF, junior Ronni Wil-
liams, the team's leading scor-er, was bottled up. 
Because of foul trouble —
Williams had three in the first half — she only played 14 total minutes and was held scoreless in a half for the first time this season. 
Butler, however, was com-
fortable with relying on the team’s depth. 
“We’ve got a lot of confi-
dence in whoever that next per-son is who’s ready to step in there,” she said. 
Near the end of the first half, 
ASU took its first lead of the game.
“Hey, calm down,” redshirt 
senior guard Carlie Needles told 
her teammates following the 
lead change. And they did, at least for the time being.Gators come from 
behind to defeat Arkansas State
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
With a week off following a 20-point win 
over Richmond, Florida has taken the time to 
prepare for its upcoming December schedule.
First up: A road game against No. 17 Mi-
ami.
The Gators (6-1) take on the Hurricanes (7-1) tonight at 7 in Coral Gables. The meet-ing will be the 69th between the two in-state schools, a series which Florida leads 45-23, but the first time the Gators will play at Miami since 2005.
Last year’s game in Gainesville is still fresh 
in Florida players’ minds, a 69-67 loss in which the Hurricanes erased a 15-point second half deficit and guard Angel Rodriguez buried the go-ahead three with 16 seconds left.
“We came out in the second half with big headedness and took it for granted, and they came back and took the game from us,” sophomore Devin 
Robinson said of last year’s game.
“We definitely don’t 
want to let that happen again ... so it’s definitely different from last year and 
I hope we get a better outcome.”
It will be hard for Florida to out-shoot Mi-
ami. The Gators are shooting 42.7 percent from the field this season and 30.4 percent from beyond the arc, while the Hurricanes are shooting 51.1 percent and 42.5 percent in those categories, respectively. 
Miami has four players averaging double-
digit points per game and two three-point shooters in Sheldon McClellan and Ivan Cruz Uceda who are shooting above .500 from be-
yond the arc.
“When you’re trying to prepare for an op-
ponent defensively, a team that’s as good as 
Miami is offensively, those numbers are stag-gering,” coach Mike White said about the Hur-ricanes’ shooting ability. “There’s not just one 
Florida men's basketball faces test in talented Miami teamSEE MCELWAIN,  PAGE 15
SEE WHOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15UM beat UF 69-67 last season
White
14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015
By Alejandro López
Alligator Writer
@ajlb95
“Next Man Up.”
It’s incredible how three simple words 
can carry so much weight.
It serves as a call to action, to knuckle-
up and step up to the occasion.
We’ve heard head football coach Jim 
McElwain spit that trisyllabic burst, punc-tuating press conferences throughout his inaugural campaign at the helm of the Florida Gators’ gridiron squad.
Forced to ﬁ  eld a lineup ravaged by in-
jury, the Missoula, Montana, native has refused to bow to the temptation of creat-ing excuses, espousing the belief that — 
through proper preparation — any athlete 
can take on the mantle of a starting posi-tion.
What you may not know, how-
ever, is that mere minutes before Florida’s football coach takes the lectern, Paul Spangler appears, a man charged with leading a group of athletes ﬁ  rmly set on imple-
menting the same notion.
However, injuries aren’t the 
issue — time is.
“Next Man Up.”
For the University of Florida’s 
talented cross country runners that remain on the team following the departure of the upper class-men, this saying will prove 
crucial in the pursuit of 
success.     
Among all the attributes that lend 
themselves to the creation of a stud ath-lete, skill is the most forceful.
And, if talent is the thunder — the 
booming clap, the rolling echo that’s 
heard throughout the world — work ethic 
is the lightning that zaps the process into full gear.
On the men’s side, the redshirt senior 
triplet of Jimmy Clark, Eddie Garcia and Charles Chambers have lit up the terrain.
Since arriving on UF’s campus in the 
Fall of 2011, the Jacksonville-based pair-ing of Clark and Garcia has turned in some 
of the most impressive outings in the his-
tory of the cross country program.
Combining for a total of two South-
eastern Conference All-Fresh-
man Team selections, ﬁ  ve 
All-SEC First Team bids 
and seven USTFCCCA 
All-South Region lau-
rels, the twosome has 
carved its way into the record books, with Clark clock-
ing the 10th-fastest 
8- and 10k runs in team history.
Although Cham-
bers — a graduate 
student transfer from 
Gold Coast, Austra-
lia — is in his ﬁ  rst and ﬁ  nal season at UF, he’s been more than just a serviceable runner for Spangler.
The former star of the Australian circuit 
aided in the Gators’ season-opening vic-tory at the Covered Bridge Open, ﬁ  nishing sixth in the 6,400 meter event. 
Later on, Chambers set a collegiate best 
8k split of 24:57.8 in College Station, Tex-as, ﬁ  nishing 55th in a deep SEC Champion-ship ﬁ  eld.
While the women’s team has the luxury 
of not losing any runners to graduation, they do possess a dynamic duo of their own in redshirt sophomore Becky Greene and junior Taylor Tubbs.
Owners of the fourth and sixth-fastest 
5ks ran on the Mark Bostic Golf Course, the two have accounted for four top-10 ﬁ  nishes during the 2015 campaign, a sea-son marked by illness and injury for both Greene — a product of Dunedin, New Zea-land — and Sebring, Florida, native Tubbs.
This comes in the wake of a stellar 2014 
season for the pairing, where a Tubbs vic-tory at the Western Carolina Invitational 
highlighted a combined three top-three 
and seven top-25 results.
Adding some polish to their burgeon-
ing resumes, both Greene and Tubbs were selected to the 2014 USTFCCCA All-South Region team, validating a pair of skill sets that have yet to reach their full potential.
      
There’s something to be said about in-
ﬂ  uence.
A trait found in the greatest of leaders, 
that moxie can propel a team from good to great, if leveraged in the proper manner.
Speak to the athletes who have compet-
ed alongside Jimmy, Eddie, Charles, Becky and Taylor, and their positive inﬂ  uence 
becomes evident.
“I just look up to them, because, I 
mean, they’re basically the deﬁ  nition of 
hard work,” freshman Jack Guyton said.
“I get to work out with them every day 
and see what they do every single day, and 
they just show dedication to the sport of 
running, and it really carries over to 
what I do every day.”
Says freshman Seamus Love: 
“They’re really down to earth and 
they’re just really helpful guys. 
… They understand where we’re 
coming from and I think that helps 
a lot, because they’re really per-sonable and relatable.”
Freshman Maddox Patterson 
touched on the team-building ef-
forts made by Taylor and Becky 
early on in the year, pointing to an 
outing at Payne’s Prairie as the mar-
quee example of the team-ﬁ  rst style of 
leadership they bring to the group.
“It was nice because we didn’t all re-
ally know each other very well,” Patterson said. “Taylor and Becky … they all just made a really good effort to help us bond and to become the team we are now. 
“I’m just really thankful that I have 
people to look up to like them. They al-
ways go out of their way to invite us to do 
things, and give us advice whenever it’s needed.”
Much like their counterparts on the 
men’s team, though, Becky, Taylor and the rest of the upperclassmen exercise their leadership during training sessions.
“When we go for distance runs, the 
girls, we talk together and they show us 
new things,” freshman sensation Maria 
Larsen said. 
“And we discuss ﬁ  rst-year things like 
studying in college and how to keep up with classes and things like that. … But, that’s what kind of calms me down when I struggled with small things throughout the day.”
What really rubbed off on the under-
classmen, however, was the fraternal sense they managed to cultivate, not only throughout the team but also amongst themselves.
“Yeah, I see their chemistry,” Guyton 
said of Clark and Garcia. “Jimmy and Ed-
die, I mean, they’ve lived together for 
three or four years, and to see their chem-istry, they’re kind of like brothers. 
“They know what to say at the right 
time, and, I just kind of learned from them how I’m able to do that with my fellow freshmen teammates.”
On how Greene and Tubbs helped her 
through the dog days of the season, Pat-
terson offered: “Just to have Taylor and 
Becky’s … positivity there even when you know that they’re tired as well, but they still make sure to motivate us, stay posi-tive even for the last few workouts and stuff when everybody’s tired.”
“I couldn’t ask for a more supportive 
or better group of girls to run with daily.”
      
Time never stops.There is no pause button, no rewind.Time is a movie production, and mem-
ory is its ﬁ  lm, its only point of reference. 
With the impending departures of 
Clark, Garcia and Chambers, the void of talent left at the top of the men’s depth chart is undeniable.
“I think, obviously Jimmy and Eddie 
have accomplished so much that it’s hard to replace how fast they ran, and it’s hard to replace the leadership that they had,” Love said.
However, their legacy remains, serving 
as a guiding light to the underclassmen who aim to ﬁ  ll the residual darkness with speed.
Per Love’s account, generating new 
speed and leadership will boil down to a complete team effort, with the lessons im-parted by Clark, Garcia and the like dis-tilled to their most potent form.
“You know, there’s no one I can real-
ly pinpoint speciﬁ  cally,” Love said when asked about who he suspects will emerge as a team leader next year.
“But I think between me and all the 
other guys who travelled to SEC’s this year and went to Pre-Nationals this year and 
got the experience, I think it’s just going 
to be on us collectively to lead the team. 
“Obviously, Jimmy and Eddie are so 
good and they have the results with them … so I think it’s just going to be on us all as a group to come together and lead.”
Coming together: Isn’t that the spirit of 
the thing? What the upperclassmen ham-mered into the minds of their teammates, 
going out of their way to make them feel 
at home?
“We deﬁ  nitely needed an upperclass-
man or two there,” Patterson observed. 
“All the upperclassmen do a great job 
of just supporting us and keeping us mo-tivated.”
With time rolling on and the sunset of 
a handful of bright careers upon them, the 
onus is ofﬁ  cially on the underclassmen to 
continue the legacy of leading by example, of hard work, of togetherness, of positive inﬂ  uence.
The catch is managing the feat against 
two opponents: their competition and time itself.
But, as Lao Tzu — a Chinese philoso-
pher — once put it, “Time is a created 
thing.
“To say ‘I don’t have time,’ is like say-
ing, ‘I don’t want to.’”Passing the Torch
Younger runners continue legacy
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
cused on bowl preparation, par-
ticularly with some dealing with the distraction of their potential 
NFL futures.
But the coach expects a lot 
of his players to be itching for 
another game in which to play.
“You know it’s interesting, 
because obviously you’ve got 
a lot of guys that maybe with 
people in their ears,” McElwain said. “But going into this game, I think with a great opponent like we’re gonna play, you know a lot of pride goes into it too. … I know that there’s a lot of Gators that are really excited about be-ing in this game.”
Many of those excited to 
play will be younger players, who have the opportunity to showcase what they have and if they’re worthy to have a bigger role going into 2016.
With almost one month of 
practice to utilize, McElwain will give those players more time 
on the field before the hardcore 
preparation for the Citrus Bowl against Michigan begins.
“We’ll actually do it a little 
bit different,” McElwain said. “The seniors and the guys that are for sure coming out, we’ll actually have those guys lift and run for those first four practices where they’re getting their bod-ies back. Those guys just do a lot of that stuff. They’ll join us back up when we get into true game prep, which will be about eight practices prior to the game 
itself.”
As for Florida’s struggling 
offense, the coach isn’t will-
ing to go into any detail about what he hopes to tinker with before facing the fourth ranked total defense in the nation in the Wolverines — a defense ranked two spots ahead of the Gators’ defense.
“There’s some things we 
need to obviously take a look at 
both structurally and personnel-
wise,” McElwain said.MCELWAIN,  from pg 13With three weeks until 
the bowl, UF will rest seniors in early practices
In the second half, Williams 
seemed to be bringing Florida 
back from an 11-point deficit it had dug itself into early in the third quarter. 
But, with three minutes and 
change left to go in the quarter, she picked up her fourth foul and was once again forced to exit the game.
The Gators were faced with 
the task of mounting a comeback without the season’s leading scorer, but thanks to their depth, 
they were able to do just that.
Senior guard Cassie Peoples 
tied and subsequently put Florida 
on top at  53-52 with 00:42 left in the third quarter. 
The game came down to the 
wire, with Florida clinging to a small lead at the end of the fourth quarter and both teams continu-
ing to play evenly matched bas-
ketball. 
Ultimately, it was freshman 
Eleanna Christinaki who put the game on ice with a pair of free throws that led to the final score of 76-72.
Butler was relieved that her 
team was able to pull through in 
the clutch, just like she would be 
in any other win. 
“I think that just shows a lot 
of toughness, a lot of heart and like I said, just a great win,” she said. 
“Arkansas State is very, very 
good. I’m glad it’s over.”WHOOPS,  from pg 13Butler earned her 200th career win
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF forward Haley Lorenzen drives into the paint during Florida's 99-
34 victory against Savannah State on Nov. 24 in  the O'Connell Center.
way to defend Miami, you’ve got to be pretty 
good at a lot of things."
One big advantage that the Gators will have 
over the Hurricanes is their rebounding ability on both ends of the floor and the rotation of 
size Florida has in its frontcourt. Tonye Jekiri, 
Miami’s senior 7-footer, leads the Hurricanes with 10.3 rebounds per game, but is the only player averaging five or more.
For the Gators, Dorian Finney-Smith (9.0 
rebounds per game), John Egbunu (8.3) and Devin Robinson (8.0) are spreading the wealth on the boards. White knows Florida will have to win that battle tonight to have a chance to 
win.
“I’ve been really pleased with our offensive 
rebounding, we’ve come a long way,” White 
said. “As we’re shooting the ball right now, it has to be a strength for us.”
This is White’s first experience with the 
in-state rivalry, so he said he wasn’t too sure what to expect from what will presumably be a hostile environment on the road in Coral 
Gables. 
Robinson knows exactly what type of game 
to expect, and understands that Miami is now 
the ranked team and Florida the underdog, roles reversed from last year’s meeting.
“They’re gonna talk, and it’s gonna be 
a hard-nosed game,” Robinson said. “If we don’t come in there with that dog mental-ity, then we’re gonna lose at their place and 
they’re gonna be talking like they’re the best 
in Florida, and we definitely don’t want that happening.”HOOPS,  from pg 13Hurricanes' Jekiri is averaging 10.3 rebounds per game 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF forward Devin Robinson shoots a three during Florida's 104-54 victory against North Carolina A&T on Nov. 16 in the 
O'Connell Center.
 “But going into this game, I 
think with a great opponent 
like we’re gonna play, you 
know a lot of pride goes into 
it too. … I know that there’s a 
lot of Gators that are really 
excited about being in this 
game.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2015
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
Kaylan Marckese walked onto 
campus this Summer and didn’t 
plan on seeing the field.
The St. Petersburg native was 
thought to be the backup goal-
keeper behind redshirt junior Val 
Tysinger.
That waiting mentality quickly 
changed soon enough.
After the Gators lost two South-
eastern Conference matches early in the season, the goalie competi-tion heated up. 
Marckese won. 
Her role changed from getting 
a few minutes for experience to 
full-time starter halfway through the year.
•   •   •
Marckese’s transition from 
backup to starter was fueled by a healthy position battle between her and Tysinger. 
Through the first four games of 
the season, Marckese stood on the sidelines, watching as Tysinger led the Gators to a 3-1 record.
In the fifth game of the season, 
a 3-2 win between then-No. 8 Flor-ida and Oklahoma State, coach Becky Burleigh put Marckese into the game during the second half, a predetermined strategy.
Burleigh alternated starts be-
tween Tysinger and Marckese for the next six matches until the 
Gators lost 3-2 to Auburn on Sept. 
27. 
With Tysinger at keeper, the 
Tigers scored three second-half goals, including the game winner with 25 seconds to play.
Tysinger didn’t start another 
game.
•   •   •
Marckese didn’t expect to see 
the pitch this year.
Despite spending her senior 
year as a starter for her club team — Tampa Bay United Premier 97 
— she knew college soccer was a different monster.
Plus, with Tysinger being in 
Florida’s program for three years 
heading into the season, Marckese had a feeling playing time would be slim. 
But when her name was called, 
she took advantage of it.
“It was amazing getting (play-
ing time),” she said, “but with a keeper like Val, I had no problem splitting time like that.”
Marckese would get the nod 
in her first collegiate start against Kentucky on Oct. 2 and Burleigh would continue to deploy the young keeper.
Throughout the remainder of 
the season Marckese wrote her name in the Florida record book.
In Marckese’s first shutout vic-
tory against Arkansas she became one of three goalkeepers in Flori-da history to provide an assist on a goal.
Marckese played the ball out of 
the penalty area toward a streak-ing Briana Solis and joined Taylor Burke and Brittni Goodwin as the only goalies to have an assist on the stat sheet for UF.
Marckese finished the sea-
son 14-1-1 in the net (7-1-1 as the starter) and helped lead the Gators to the third round of the 2015 NCAA Tournament.
•   •   •
Marckese said her relation-
ship with Tysinger has been the catalyst for her improvement this season. 
“Val has taught me a lot and 
I like to think that I push Val the same type of way, ” Marckese said. “We just work really hard. 
We work really well together, so 
we always have fun and we’re al-ways motivating each other to be better.”
And even though the two goal-
keepers were splitting time on the field, the other young players on the team saw how much of an im-pact Tysinger’s leadership had on the freshman goalie. 
Solis, a freshman midfielder, “I 
remember she said she was a little nervous telling them what to do and stuff. But as the season came along, they tell her ‘everything’s okay’ and they’ve been communi-cating really well.”
•   •   •
The prospect of having two po-
tential starting goalkeepers isn’t something Burleigh has had to deal with recently. Her previous goalie, Taylor Burke, was a four-
year starter and led the Gators 
to an SEC title and four straight NCAA tournament appearances.
But this isn’t Burleigh’s first 
position battle at the net. 
In 2007 and 2008, she split 
time between two goalies: fresh-man Meghan Berlingo and red-shirt freshman Katie Fraine.
Both Berlingo and Fraine 
fought for playing time, seeing more than 900 minutes of match play in both seasons. Ultimately Berlingo transferred to Washing-ton State in January following the 
2008 season.
The main difference this time 
is the age gap between the two 
players and the competitive rela-tionship the goalies said helped them both improve this season. 
Tysinger waited for her turn 
behind Burke and stepped into the starting role to open the season, 
but Marckese’s hard work opened 
up the position battle.
Marckese, the university’s 
youngest student-athlete, trans-formed from a new face in one of the nation’s top collegiate soccer programs to one of the leaders on the Florida soccer team.
Tysinger said that the com-
petition between the two goalies fueled her to keep improving per-sonally. 
“When I see someone else 
working hard, that makes me want to work hard,” Tysinger said. “Because if my teammate’s willing to work that hard for the team, I want to work that hard for 
the team too.”
Burleigh said the competition 
between the goalkeepers was 
something she wished was the same type of competitive relation-ship that spread throughout the entire team. 
“Val and Kaylan have had this 
unbelievable partnership where 
they’ve pushed each other all 
year,” Burleigh said. 
“I know Val has given Kaylan 
some tips … and I think Kaylan has provided some ways that she has pushed Val. I think between the two of them, we get the best of both in every performance.”Movin’ on up: Freshman goalie becomes starter, keeps the job
Courtesy of UAA Communications
UF soccer’s Kaylan Marckese overtook the starting goalkeeping job midway through her freshman 
season, replacing fourth-year junior Val Tysinger. Marckese ended the year 14-1-1 in the net.
SOCCER
DERRICK HENRY, CHRISTIAN 
MCCAFFREY AND DESHAUN 
WATSON ARE THE OTHERS. 
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
And then there were three.
Alabama’s Derrick Henry, Stanford’s 
Christian McCaffrey and Clemson’s Deshaun 
Watson were named the three finalists for 
the Heisman Trophy on Monday, and it was announced by 1998 Heisman Trophy winner Ricky Williams on ESPN’s SportsCenter. 
Henry is a big reason why No. 2 Alabama 
is in the College Football Playoff. He leads the country with 1,986 rushing yards and 23 rushing touchdowns. 
He also set the Southeastern Conference 
single-season rushing record, passing Her-schel Walker’s 34-year record of 1,891 yards.
McCaffrey has flown under the radar a 
bit this season, but his numbers tell a differ-ent story. Stanford has gotten the ball in his 
hands in a number of ways and he has pro-
duced. 
McCaffrey leads the nation in all-purpose 
yards with 3,496 with the next closest player being more than 1,000 yards behind — San 
Jose State’s Tyler Ervin has 2,410 yards.
McCaffrey is also second behind Henry in 
rushing yards with 1,847 yards. 
Watson has been the signal-caller for the 
No. 1 team in the country, Clemson, and he 
is the only quarterback in the nation to have at least 3,000 passing yards and 800 rushing yards this season. Watson has accounted for 41 touchdowns this season and has led the 
Tigers to a 13-0 record.   
The Heisman Trophy winner will be an-
nounced on Dec. 14 on ESPN at 8 p.m. ‘Bama RB leads Heisman finalists
AP Photo
Stanford running back Christian McCaffrey lunges into the endzone for a touchdown 
during the Cardinals’ 55-17 win against Arizona on Oct. 3 in Stanford Stadium.
