By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
The students were sleep de-
prived.
To avoid the UF libraries’ crowd-
ed study spaces, some set up shop in 
local cafés as they ﬁ  nished up their semester work. From Midtown to 
downtown, shops like Pascal’s Cof-feehouse and Maude’s Classic Café 
were full of students who strayed from campus to concentrate.
“We’re running out of dishes,” 
said Pascal’s manager, Juan Alcala, as he hunched over a sink.
Pascal’s, a coffee shop situated 
a couple blocks from Library West, was cramped. Alcala said he felt ﬁ  -nals week fast approaching.
On Tuesday at about 4 p.m., Pas-cal’s had already made 230 transac-tions. And the coffeehouse was still three hours from closing.
By the time the coffeehouse clos-
es on a typical Tuesday, Alcala said it makes about 200 transactions.
“Since I’ve been here, around ﬁ  -
nals time, there’s always an increase in business,” he said.
A foot from the front door, Van-
essa Martinez, 18, sat outside with two friends and a few cups of coffee.
The students spent nearly an We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 73 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015
Florida men’s basketball falls to Miami
First back-to-back losses to UM in 30 years, 
pg. 16
‘If you see something, say something’
Safety tips for Winter Break, pg. 3
The night is young and so are we
Students prepare for ﬁ  nals, papers, pg. 9Thanks for a great semester 
Check out the editor-in-chief’s goodbye editorial, pg. 6
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Students crowd Pascal’s Coffeehouse on Tuesday evening. Juan Alcala, the coffee shop and study cen-
ter’s manager, said students always bring more business during ﬁ  nals week.
The search  for study spaces
THE INVESTIGATION 
WAS DONE BY THE 
ASSOCIATED PRESS.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
In 2013, a woman cried as 
she sat in Target and spoke to 
Gainesville Police Ofﬁ  cer Robert Gebhardt.
Before Gebhardt arrested her 
for shoplifting, the 18-year-old woman told him about her drug problem. She also mentioned hav-ing been kidnapped and forced to have sex with men.
About six weeks later, Geb-
hardt had sex with the woman be-fore paying her $50 to spend the night, according to GPD internal affairs investigative reports.
An Associated Press investi-
gation published in November 
revealed about 1,000 law en-
forcement ofﬁ  cers in America — including police ofﬁ  cers, sheriff’s deputies, prison guards and school resource ofﬁ  cers — lost their cer-tiﬁ  cations for sex-related miscon-duct between 2009 and 2014.
The investigation did not in-
clude ofﬁ  cers who received lighter 
punishments, including Gebhardt 
and others from GPD and the Ala-chua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce.
“It tarnishes all of us,” ASO 
spokesman Art Forgey said.
      Two weeks after the arrest, 
Gebhardt visited the woman in jail.
He gave her a business card 
and his cellphone number, hop-
ing to take her out when she was 
released.
And 44 days after her arrest, he 
did just that.
On May 6, 2013, Gebhardt took 
the woman to Ichiban Sushi. He bought her a drink and later took her to his apartment, where he served the woman whiskey mixed 
with Coke.
They kissed in the living room 
and moved to the bedroom to have sex.
The woman later told investiga-
tors it felt like her ﬁ  rst real date.
She then smoked crack in Geb-
hardt’s bathroom and decided she 
wanted to leave. She told investi-gators the supposed date became a transaction after she stayed the night in exchange for the $50 Geb-
hardt offered her.
In a deposition signed Sept. 24, 
2014, GPD ofﬁ  cials recommended 
Gebhardt be terminated for two sustained allegations, which in-cluded immoral, unlawful or im-proper conduct or indecency.
Police Chief Tony Jones signed 
termination forms for Gebhardt al-
most a month later, according to  A look at sexual 
misconduct in local law enforcement
CAMPUS
By Alexandra Fernandez 
and Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writers
afernandez@alligator.org
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
UF has accomplished a lot this semester.
Kent Fuchs was ofﬁ  cially inaugurated as 
UF’s 12th president, the Herbert Wertheim Col-lege of Engineering received a $50-million do-nation and UF received a record of $707 million 
in research funding.But there’s still more work to be done.
The goals
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said UF’s fu-
ture will be paved by goals created by President 
Fuchs’ goal-setting task force, which was cre-ated in April.
“While we don’t have quite all the i’s dot-
ted and the t’s crossed, the basic roadmap that President Fuchs is going to follow going for-ward are the seven goals,” she said.  
The goals are to increase geographic and 
ethnic diversity among faculty and students; increase accessibility to education, health re-sources and faculty mentorships; continue hir-ing faculty recognized as experts in their ﬁ  elds; increase research and scholarship funds and attract more graduate students; expand UF’s communication with the rest of the world; increase engagement with alumni; and con-
tinually update the physical campus, including 
buildings, labs and residence halls.
Sikes said these goals are critical to making 
UF a top-10 public university.
“Dr. Fuchs has said we should shoot even higher for top 5,” she said.  
Construction
Sikes said several major construction proj-
ects are either currently underway or will begin in 2016.
UF Health is expected to complete construc-
tion on two new hospitals in 2017. Those hos-
pitals are UF Health Heart and Vascular Hospi-
tal and the UF Health Neuromedicine Hospital, Sikes said. 
Construction on these facilities, which will A new path:  UF looks forward to making campus betterSEE COFFEE,  PAGE 10
SEE FUTURE,  PAGE 8SEE MISCONDUCT,  PAGE 8Students go to cofee shops
“It tarnishes all of us.”
Art Forgey
ASO spokesmanSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Robotics Demos at UF
Robot demo day at UF will in-
clude demonstrations of about a dozen robots built by students in this semester’s Intelligent 
Machines Design Laboratory 
(IMDL) course. Several oth-er robots from the Machine Intelligence Lab (MIL) will be dis-played, including the robots from our past world champion com-petitions teams: our robot boat (PropaGator) and our robot sub-marine (SubjuGator). The demos 
will occur today from 1 p.m. to 
3 p.m. in UF's New Engineering Building Harris Rotunda. See mil.ufl.edu/5666/robot_info_f15.htm for more information.
Tango Class
Join the UF Argentine Tango Club for free tango classes at all levels 
including for first timers.
Classes will take place tonight in the common room at Corry Village. The lesson will begin at 8 p.m. followed by a tango social. Be sure to dress comfortably. No special shoes are necessary. If you have any questions, please visit facebook.com/groups/uf-
tango/.
Finals Relaxation Week at 
Library West
Today, there will be free pizza be-ginning at 5 p.m. on the second floor to the right of the circulation desk.
The Reitz Union Presents De-
Stress Study FestOn Thursday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., join us on the North Lawn to take a break from studying for finals with fun inflatable rides,  mega-sized games, free massages provided by RecSports and free food galore — this year features 
churros, pretzels and hot choco-
late. Afterward, from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., the Arts and Crafts Center will be throwing a party with some free food and crafts. Stop by to decorate a small tote bag, make some buttons or grab some pizza and drinks.
Comedy Show
Celebrate the end of the semes-ter with a comedy show. “Just Kidding: A Live + Online Sketch Comedy Show” will play at the 
Hippodrome State Theatre on 
Friday and Saturday at 11 p.m. The show will feature an hour of live sketches. Tickets are limited. Get yours at justkiddingcomedy.com.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
afigueroa@alligator.org. Please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releas-
es will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 73
HIGH  73° LOW  52°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Given recent terror attacks, the 
Florida Department of Law Enforce-
ment said it’s relaunching its “If You See Something, Say Something” cam-paign in a press release Tuesday.
While the program has been in 
place since 2011, FDLE is now em-phasizing its importance. The initia-tive is part of a national campaign licensed by the Department of Home-land Security to encourage Ameri-cans to report any suspicious activity in hopes of preventing terror attacks.
The FDLE’s campaign urges Flo-
ridians who see suspicious activity to report it to law enforcement or call 1-855-FLA-SAFE.
The DHS describes suspicious ac-
tivity as “behavior that could indicate 
terrorism or terrorism-related crime.” 
This includes unattended packages or luggage, someone overly curi-ous about a building’s purpose, or a person paying unusual attention to facilities or buildings, among other things.
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
ﬁ  ce will promote the campaign on social media, said spokesman Art Forgey, the public information ofﬁ  cer for the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce.
FDLE Communications Coordi-
nator Steve Arthur said prevented attacks generally don’t receive the same amount of attention as success-
ful ones.
“I think it’s effective because some 
of the things that we warn about...are 
things that the Department of Home-land Security had developed through the years in a number of cases where they prevented any kind of success-ful (terror) operation,” Arthur said.
‘If you see something, say something’Safety tips for Winter Break
Winter Break is just days away. Santa Fe College Police Chief Ed Book 
and Gainesville Police spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias offer some tips to stay safe while spending time with friends and family.
 Be extra aware of your surroundings, and guard transactions and 
identiﬁ  cation.
 Lock all doors and windows. Students away from home or their apartments during break should provide neighbors or management with emergency contact numbers.
 Any belongings in a vehicle should be hidden, and the vehicle should be locked.
 During social activities, have someone with you. Students should never go home alone with strangers.
 Students out drinking should pay close attention to their drinks. Have friends or family watch your drink if you have to step away. 
 SFCPD will be on duty during break, and GPD will expand patrols around residential areas.4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Thank you for the 
endless supply 
of anecdotes 
A few weeks ago, I ran into an old classmate from high 
school.
“So, are you still doing the journalism thing?” he 
asked. Yes, yes I am.
Back then, I had been the editor-in-chief of the high 
school newspaper for two years. I was the last car in the parking lot every day. I was always talking about a story.
Ah, full circle.  When I was accepted to UF in 2012, I remember turning to 
my high school journalism adviser and saying, “I’m going to be the editor-in-chief of the Alligator.” I remember posing in front of the vine-covered building that summer and asking my friend to take a picture. “I found @TheAlligator, my future home! A nerdy photo was mandatory.”
I remember calling my parents after editing a story in Spring 
2013 to tell them, “I found my people.” Five semesters later, I still feel the same. 
A lot of people know what I do before they learn who I am. 
That’s because I can’t stop talking about it. Working at the Al-ligator has been the highlight of my college experience. Leading it this semester as editor-in-chief has been, as I tend to put it, unreal.
I’m one of the lucky ones: I’ve known what I’ve wanted to do 
since I was 14. I wanted to talk to people, write their stories and learn something new every day. The Alligator gave me that outlet full-time in Fall 2014.
For the past two semesters, I’ve felt like the eyes and ears 
of campus. I never felt more like a Gator until I covered the UF presidential search and watched the football players rush by me on the sideline. I work every Sunday night through Thursday night, and I usually don’t leave until about 1 a.m. I’ve learned more in those hours, in this homey, decrepit ofﬁ  ce, than in any 
class or internship. 
I’ve learned to read with the most critical eye, when to take 
risks and when to step back. I stopped letting anxiety get the best 
of me and started making decisions quickly. I grew more com-fortable highlighting issues that could potentially (and sometimes did) stir up controversy. I started correcting people’s grammar in my head.
We became the voices of neglected buildings that had turned 
into health hazards. We reopened the discussion of cold cases in 
our city. We showed the power of motherhood through a woman 
who climbed Mount Everest for her terminally ill son. We fol-lowed upset graduate assistants seeking justice, and we learned about a program for domestic abuse victims about to lose its funding. We produce a paper to be proud of ﬁ  ve days a week.
I do all of this with my friends, some of the greatest I’ll have 
in my lifetime. Throughout the night, we talk too much and make too many weird noises. We’ve taken too many ﬁ  eld trips to Kar-ma Cream and Leonardo’s Pizza By The Slice. Old jokes never 
stop being funny. There’s always someone to hug you when 
you’re down. No one knows what sleep is. And, usually there’s a white Maltipoo to play with.  
I’m not sure what the future holds for me, and I’m not going 
to lie: It’s scary. But, I found a family of people who understand me, support me and want me to succeed. I hope they know I wish the best for them. After all of this, what I do know is: Yeah, I’m excited to continue doing this journalism thing.
Alyssa Fisher is a UF journalism senior. She is the editor-in-
chief of the Alligator.Goodbye and thanks to the squad I ﬁ  nally found
If there’s one thing college taught me be-sides how to be a journalist, it’s that you can’t force friendship.
At the Alligator, I didn’t even have to 
try.
I transferred to UF as a junior. I knew I 
would struggle to ﬁ  nd my squad, so I threw myself into situations I thought would result in friendships.
I had no interest in being in a sorority, 
but I ﬁ  gured it was a sureﬁ  re way to make friends. Out of almost 200 women, I ended up with a few friends who weren’t all friends with each other, and we didn’t hang out much outside the sorority.
I swallowed my social anxiety and talked to people 
in class. This landed me a few friendly faces in a lecture hall, but no one I could really rely on for much more than lending me a spare pencil.
I joined clubs. I sat at crowded tables in Library West. 
I even chatted with people in the line at Starbucks even though I despise small talk.
I heard people in my journalism classes rave about 
the Alligator and how their co-workers were like a sec-
ond family to them. 
As a contributing writer, I saw the desk editors and 
the staff writers share inside jokes over Leonardo’s rolls. 
I longed to belong to their little family.
But I was nervous.What if I wasn’t good enough? What if I couldn’t bal-
ance the workload with my schoolwork? What if I failed?
I ﬁ  nally mustered up the courage to apply during my 
ﬁ  nal semester of my senior year. 
I worked on the application for almost two weeks 
while I was at my summer internship.
They accepted me. Not just for the position, but into their little family.After two long years of desperately trying to ﬁ  nd 
friendships, I enjoyed four short months with people I didn’t have to try to impress.
They accepted the strange dichotomy of a person who has blue hair and a partially shaved head, but is also obsessed with unicorns and Taylor Swift. 
They didn’t judge me when I sat in the of-
ﬁ  ce and watched the “Wildest Dreams” mu-
sic video over and over and over again the 
night it premiered. They were happy to see me happy.
In fact, I was thrilled to discover my editor 
felt the same way about pandas as I do about unicorns. I was instantly welcomed into the Panda Squad. And the university editor on 
the other side of the cubicle wall was always down to gush about Taylor Swift’s perfection with me.
They valued my writing and assured me I would 
be able to get a journalism job in New York City, even though it’s much more likely, as a Florida native, that I will only get frostbite.
I can’t thank you enough for these four months. The 
memories I’ve made with you all will surely keep me warm throughout New York’s coldest months and be-yond.
Thank you for making my last semester at UF not 
only my most rewarding one, but also the most laughter-ﬁ  lled four months of my life.
Brooke Baitinger is a graduating UF journalism se-
nior. She is a staff writer at the Alligator.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Brooke
Baitinger
opinions@alligator.org
“After two long years of 
desperately trying to ind 
friendships, I enjoyed four short 
months with people I didn’t have 
to try to impress.”WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Let’s go back to Sept. 8, 2011. The U.S. 
unemployment rate is around 9 percent and President Barack Obama has called a joint session of Congress to address the nation on what the U.S. government is 
going to do to improve the economy. Millions of Americans at the time were struggling to make ends meet while unemployed, scraping together what they had just to make it by. That night, Obama had the answer to the fear and struggle of many Americans. But this wasn’t the priority for most: That night it was Thurs-day Night Football.
As the New York Times put it a day before 
the grand event, “Obama is president, but foot-ball is king,” which is why he decided to move the speech to an hour before kickoff. And even then, football fans were vocal about how the President of the United States would interrupt the pregame show.
Once again, Obama addressed the nation 
Sunday — football Sunday. Football fans don't forget to watch their favorite team’s game, be-
cause it is their team. The problem is you would 
be hard-pressed to ﬁ  nd a group of Americans on Sunday who thought they had to watch the presidential address because it is their country.
Just imagine what kind of country we would 
be if we cared as much about being a part of the U.S. as we do about our football. If Ameri-cans could come together for politics as they do every weekend for football, our political 
culture would completely shift for the better.
With elections around the corner, so is the 
debate about campaign ﬁ  nancing. Let’s take 
one of the teams that played that night in 2011: the Green Bay Packers. They are publically owned by the fans themselves. Americans feel their individual inﬂ  uences are no match for corporate campaign ﬁ  nancing, yet the Green Bay Packers franchise, one of the most elite franchises in the NFL, is merely a group of pas-sionate fans competing against teams owned 
by millionaires and billionaires.  
The difference lies in passion. The wait-
ing list for Green Bay Packers season tickets 
is 81,000 names, with the average wait time being 30 years. Fans only stop showing sup-port when they are no longer breathing. What if people supported a presidential candidate the same way?
The power of passion can be seen here at 
UF. Most incoming students say football games are why they are excited for college. The crazy thing is many students have no clue about foot-ball before they get here. But they learn so they can enter Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on certain Saturdays in order to share in the camaraderie that can be found nowhere else.
At the same time, many college freshmen are becoming ﬁ  rst-time football fans, they are also the age at which they can vote for the ﬁ  rst time. However, no college student tries as hard to take part in his or her civic duty as they do to participate in cheering on a college foot-
ball team. It usually has something to do with 
young people not believing their individual votes count enough to affect the election out-come. Then again, does the decision to watch their favorite football team affect who wins the game? 
The difference in passion for football and 
politics hurts America most when it comes to how opinions are formed. Football fans know 
better than to give an ill-informed opinion. 
Fake fans are shunned and ostracized. How-ever, people have no problem telling you their opinion on terrorism and what happened in San Bernardino, California, even if they haven’t read a lick of news to know what is going on. Say what you want about the presi-dent, but his administration is the most in-formed about what's happening in America. So 
maybe it would be nice if people took the time 
to just hear what Obama has to say the same way people watch ESPN before they tell their friends who’s going to win next week.
If you still aren’t convinced, just think about 
this: Four times as many Americans would watch Obama’s State of the Union address if he waited a couple of weeks to give it during the halftime show of the Super Bowl. At least it 
would be better than Coldplay.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF engineering fresh-
man. His column appears on Wednesdays.
Country and football, viewed necessarily in that order Column
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015
be built by Shands Hospital, began in 
January.
UF received federal funding of 
about $8 million to begin construc-tion of phase two of UF’s Innovation 
Hub, located at 747 SW 2nd Ave. 
Construction will begin in spring for the 50,000-square-foot building, which will adjoin the current struc-ture. Sikes said a number of buildings on campus will undergo renovations. The Stephen C. O’Connell Center will close in March 2016 to begin its $64.5-million renovation.
Newell Hall will be renovated into 
a study space by Spring 2017, Sikes said. UF is also hoping to acquire $8 million from the state legislature in January for a Norman Hall renova-tion.
Herbert Wertheim’s gift of $50 
million to the College of Engineering may also be used to construct new 
buildings for the college, Sikes said.
“They have an entire new vision 
for the college,” she said.
Walk Safe
UF is considering adding a golf-
cart escort service, where student 
drivers will pick up and drop off stu-dents around campus, said Dean of Students Jen Day Shaw. 
This would replace the Walk Safe 
program that ended at the start of Fall.“We would like to have some-
thing better, whether it’s Walk Safe or Golf Safe,” she said.
The idea has only been proposed, 
she said. There is no cost or timeline if it is implemented.
UF music education and music 
composition senior Ismael Sandoval escorted students with Walk Safe. He said he’s torn about supporting the 
proposed program.
“People will take advantage of 
it just to avoid walking across cam-
pus,” the 22-year-old said.
A larger endowment
Sikes said UF expects to begin 
a campaign within a year to raise its endowment, the total amount of money donated to UF. Its current en-dowment is at about $1.5 billion.
The campaign’s goal is to raise 
about $3 billion in private funds, which she said will help UF support professors and update classrooms.
The money will also be used for 
increasing need-based scholarships through the Machen Florida Oppor-tunity Scholars program, Sikes said.
“It’s important that cost not be a 
barrier to come to the University of Florida,” she said.FUTURE,  from pg1UF seeks to raise $3 
billion in private funds
Alligator archives.
“As with any sector of the pub-
lic world, there is no way to pre-
vent it,” GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. He 
declined to comment further.
In 2011, Gebhardt tried to visit 
former Ofﬁ  cer David Reveille, who 
was accused of having sex with prostitutes, according to GPD in-vestigative reports.
In 2005, a woman said Reveille 
threatened to arrest her if she didn’t give him a sexual favor. The wom-
an obliged Reveille in his police car 
to stay out of trouble on several occasions, but evidence suggested her claims were likely false, accord-ing to the reports.
In 2008, someone accused Rev-
eille of sleeping with four prosti-tutes. A woman also accused Rev-eille of threatening to arrest her if 
she didn’t give him oral sex. She 
also said he made her stand over the back of his patrol car and have sex with him on a separate occa-sion, according to the reports. 
He was arrested on six counts 
of sexual battery, along with other charges, on Feb. 19, 2009, and later sentenced to two years in prison 
for the crimes, according to Alliga-
tor archives.
“A lot of times, people will get 
in this line of work and feel like they’re above the law instead of being held to a higher standard,” Forgey said.
      
Cases of abuse don’t stop at the 
station door.
In 2006, an investigation found 
former ASO Chief Inspector Alan Morrow guilty of making a fel-
low employee erase thousands of 
pornographic ﬁ  les from his work computer, according to an internal investigation.
“Any time you are put into that 
situation, you’re always in fear of reprisal because that person has power over you,” Forgey said.
Sheriff Sadie Darnell reassigned 
Morrow, but he instead resigned, Forgey wrote in an email.
A year later, an investigation 
found former Deputy Michael But-ler guilty of harassment after he made a female employee uncom-fortable with months of unwanted physical contact and relentless text messages. He also resigned.
Forgey said the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce 
is organized with a chain of com-mand, and every new employee is supervised for one year before hav-ing the chance to work full time.
If a supervisor doesn’t report 
the new employee’s seemingly small actions, a big problem could unfold in the future. The same goes 
for employees who might ignore 
their peers’ misconduct or intimi-date someone below them in the chain, Forgey said.
“The chain is only as strong 
as the weakest link, and if there’s a weak link along the way some-where that fails in that chain, the whole chain is broken,” he said.
When a complaint makes its 
way to ASO’s Ofﬁ  ce of Professional Standards, some people become frustrated with how slow the pro-cess can be, Forgey said.
It often takes a long time, he 
said, because each person inter-viewed has to review all the inter-views conducted before them.
Investigators also have to abide 
by a lengthy Law Enforcement Of-ﬁ  cers’ Bill of Rights, which uses about eight pages to outline the rights of ofﬁ  cers under investiga-tion. When deciding on a punish-ment, Forgey said ofﬁ  cials consider the length of a deputy’s service and his or her past offenses.
The sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce tries to avoid 
these problems by requiring depu-ties to review and sign a code of ethics and a document on harass-ment every year. It also requires new candidates to take a polygraph test, undergo a psychological exam, accept a review of all social media pages and agree to interviews of friends and family, Forgey said.
To minimize misconduct in the 
future, he recommended ofﬁ  cers throughout the country hold each other to the same high standards expected by the public.
“We do it all and, no matter how 
hard you screen, there’s always go-ing to be that small percentage that goes through the crack,” Forgey 
said. 
MISCONDUCT,  from pg1ASO and GPD had investigations
“W e would like to have 
something better, whether it’s 
Walk Safe or Golf Safe.” 
Jen Day Shaw
Dean of Students By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
As final exams approach, some 
UF students still have work to fin-
ish and notebooks to flip through to ensure they pass their classes.
Many students will relocate from 
Library West to Marston Science Library, which became UF’s 24/5 library this term, to watch last-min-ute lectures and complete lengthy practice exams.
With the addition of Marston’s 
24-hour Starbucks and extended li-brary hours, students study in soli-darity as a caffeine-powered student 
body.
A change of scenery
Phill Smith was distracted by the 
pretty girls in Library West.
The UF engineering sophomore 
said there were “too many attractive 
people there,” and that’s why the 
20-year-old said he prefers Marston.
On Monday afternoon, Smith 
said he would stay in Marston until 
11 p.m. to study for an engineering materials exam. He said he procras-tinated for his Tuesday exam.
“I procrastinate until I hate my-
self,” he said.
Sometimes, Smith climbs to the 
fourth floor of Marston to avoid dis-tractions. He said the personalized desk cubbies on the silent floor help him focus.
“I’ll study until my computer 
dies, and that’s just when I’m out of here,” he said. “You do have a problem with outlets.”
While Library West has more 
outlets than Marston, Marston has more seats, wrote Patrick Reakes, the associate dean for scholarly resources and services for UF’s Smathers Libraries, in an email. Marston has about 1,940 outlets, and Library West has about 2,900.
Marston has recently added more 
outlets and seats. Currently, he said, 
Marston has 2,116 seats on its five 
floors, while Library West has only 1,400 on its five floors available to students.
When Smith went to the library, he got lucky: He found a table with 
an outlet in the crowded library.
But he said he wouldn’t try 
to pull an all-nighter, even if he 
should.
“I stay until I find myself on 
Facebook way too much,” he said.
The couple that studies to-
gether, stays together
By 1:30 a.m. Tuesday, Erica Es-
quivel and Steven Paek had been at Marston for four hours.
The couple sat in large chairs 
on Marston’s ground floor, and the 
small table in front of them was 
partially covered by three Starbucks cups.
“He’s probably here because I’m 
here,” said Esquivel about her boy-friend.
Esquivel, a 19-year-old UF eco-
nomics sophomore, said she had four exams to study for, two of which are today. She didn’t plan to leave Marston until 3:30 a.m.
“It’s hard to study for everything 
at once,” she said. “I fall asleep if I’m not sitting up.”
Esquivel said she lives off cam-
pus, so Marston is more convenient than Library West because parking is closer.
Paek prefers Marston to Library 
West, too. He said there’s more background noise at Marston.
“I have to be distracted to 
study,” the 20-year-old electrical engineering sophomore said. “(At Library West,) it’s too creepy, and it’s too quiet.”
He said he purposefully puts off 
studying until the night before be-cause he works best under pressure. He also likes to study at the Chi Phi Fraternity house.
“My best studying happens at parties,” he said. “I can’t be by my-self.”
Survival of the fittest
Taylor Parker was up all night 
Tuesday.
By 2 a.m., Parker had been in 
Marston for about seven hours, and she didn’t plan to leave — even to 
sleep — any time soon.
“I don’t nap, I just go to sleep,” 
the 20-year old said. “There is no 
nap.”
Parker, a UF junior studying 
French, international studies and health science, said she was at Mar-ston to write three final essays and study for a physics exam.
“I’m just out here surviving,” 
she said.
But Parker said she wishes she 
were studying at Library West late at night. She said she preferred Li-brary West being the 24-hour study spot because it was farther from the center of campus and farther from her dorm, which gave her more mo-
tivation to power through her work.“It was so far away from home,” 
Parker said. “Once I got there I was 
like, ‘Oh I can’t go back now.’”  
She said she intentionally left her 
bike at North Hall, her dorm, so she wouldn’t convince herself to leave.
Parker said she goes to the li-
brary to study about three times a 
week and frequently pulls all-night-
ers around exam time.
While she doesn’t rely on cof-
fee to help her work through her study sessions, she said she enjoys indulging in Starbucks green tea to stay awake.
“I’m not entirely convinced it 
was (just) green tea,” she said and 
then laughed.
Power naps
It was Kalaivanan Murthy’s first 
time falling asleep at the library.
At 2 a.m. Tuesday, the 24-year-
old environmental engineering sci-
ences master’s student was huddled 
in the back of one of Marston’s 
computer labs with his head tucked under his arms and his Dell laptop charging next to him.
“I’m staying here for the whole 
night,” Murthy said after waking up from his nap. “I tried working in the evening, but it didn’t work out.”
He said after leaving the library 
to eat, early morning seemed like a better time to study.
It’s Murthy’s first year at UF af-
ter moving from Chennai, India, to Florida to pursue his graduate de-gree.
He said he’s had a good Fall term 
because he enjoys his program. Plus, Florida’s warm weather is 
similar to India’s.
Murthy wasn’t staying in Mar-
ston on Tuesday morning because 
he procrastinated. Instead, he said he was working on a spatial analy-sis project that isn’t due for several days.
Murthy buried himself in his 
project, consulting colorful maps of 
Florida’s wildlife density while typ-
ing at his computer.
He said he wasn’t motivated to 
stay in Marston by caffeine but by his desire to get his project done early.
“I’m forcing myself,” he said. “I 
want to complete it.”WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
The night is young and so are we 
Alligator File Photo 
Valentina Caro, a UF psychology freshman, reads on the second floor of Library West on July 20. 
Library West was UF’s 24/5 library until Marston Science Library took over the role this term.
Students prepare for finals, papersWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015
hour Monday looking for a seat at Li-
brary West, the UF exploratory fresh-
man said. 
She said Tuesday was her ﬁ  rst day 
at Pascal’s, but she’ll likely come back 
if the libraries continue to be crowded.
Downtown, Lauren Goldsby stud-
ied for her biology exam at Volta Cof-
fee, Tea and Chocolate. The UF food science sophomore chose Volta over UF’s libraries because she couldn’t ﬁ  nd any seats there, she said.
“It was ridiculously packed,” the 
19-year-old said. 
A table down from her, Kayce 
Whitbeck, 19, peered into her laptop. Like Goldsby, the UF applied physiol-ogy and kinesiology sophomore was studying for a Biology 1 exam.
“The libraries have been, like, 
completely full,” she said.
Behind the counter, Volta barista Maddison Blewett said more students have come to the café, but they stay for long periods of time, meaning 
there aren’t increases in sales.
“I think we’re expecting more to 
get busier next week,” she said.
Past the Hippodrome State The-
atre, Michelle Neeley, 21, shared a pitcher of coffee with three friends at 
Maude’s.
Layne Wrighton, the owner and 
general manager of the café, said she noticed a lot of students essentially 
camping out.
Neeley, a UF journalism senior, 
said she came to Maude’s because she 
had no other option.
“We came here today because ev-
erywhere else was full,” she said.
She also said she doesn’t like UF 
libraries’ atmospheres during ﬁ  nals week.
“It was just, like, stressful to have 
to be around everyone stressed,” she 
said. COFFEE,  from pg1Students ind libraries 
are too crowded to study
Katelyn Irvin / Alligator
STRESS-FREE SANTA
Nicolas Lomurro, a 19-year-old UF ﬁ  nance freshman, sits on the lap of Marty Cohen, an 18-year-
old UF biology freshman, in Hume Hall on Tuesday. Cohen played Santa at the “Snowﬂ  akes and Santa” event to relieve students’ stress before ﬁ  nals.
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
Lee Southwick chooses to walk to pick 
up her food instead of having it delivered.
The 19-year-old UF geography sopho-
more uses it as a study break, she said.
“I order out more during ﬁ  nals, but I 
like to pick it up myself,” she said. “I like 
to walk from the library to Midtown, grab my food and walk back with it because I like the fresh air to clear my head.”
Most students are not like Southwick, 
according to the increase in business’ de-livery services during reading days and ﬁ  nals week.
Eric Layton, the general manager of 2 
Dollar Delivery, said the business experi-ences a major spike in deliveries toward the middle and end of the semester.
“We do a lot of deliveries to the librar-
ies and to the eastern side of campus, where the sorority houses are,” he said. “We have four or ﬁ  ve extra drivers on board, and the delivery time goes up for all the restaurants by 10 or 15 minutes.”
After 7 or 8 p.m., he said, the more popular restaurants like Bento Cafe start to have hourlong waits when a customer places an order. 2 Dollar Delivery also extended its hours by half an hour on its busiest days, he said.
Layton said this year he’s noticed more 
students having “study parties” and plac-
ing large orders between $50 and $70.
“We get that with ofﬁ  ces and places 
like Shands and VA hospitals all the time,” 
he said. “But it’s abnormal for students.”
Deliveries have also been faster since 
the launch of the 2 Dollar Delivery app in November, Layton said.
He said the most popular restaurants 
students order delivery from are Bento, 
Mi Apá Latin Café, Chuy’s, Piesanos Stone 
Fired Pizza and Reggae Shack Café. Start-ing next week, just in time for ﬁ  nals, the delivery service will likely offer delivery from Krispy Kreme, Little Caesars Pizza, McAlister’s Deli and possibly even Moth-er’s Pub and Grill.
“On Friday and Saturday, we stay open 
until 10:30 (p.m.),” he said. “And we get 
orders that late. Sometimes they’ll come 
in right at 10:29.”Finals increase food deliveriesIT’S CLOSING ON 
CHRISTMAS EVE.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Contributing Writer
Keith Richards always wanted to own a 
bike shop.
He realized his dream three years ago in 
Gainesville, but that dream will conclude when Swift Cycle closes its doors Dec. 24.
“Closing the shop is bittersweet,” Richards 
said. “It’s been a big part of my life.”
Richards said he’s moving to the West 
Coast with his family to build houses, and co-owner Tim Hayes has already relocated to Orlando.
UF biology senior Nicole Serrano has 
worked in the store since April. She got the job after shopping at the store and conversing 
with the owners.
“Before I started working there, it was a 
very welcoming store,” the 21-year-old said. 
“Keith really helps and breaks things down for you.”
The shop was also known for its service 
toward the community. Richards said Swift Cycle encouraged local government to install bike racks, pumps and repair stations in front 
of the Hippodrome State Theatre and The Top.He also said Swift Cycle sponsored the Ala-
chua County Trail Keepers, a group that picks 
up trash on the various trails and paths in the county.
Serrano said the store’s closing won’t 
be a major loss for the biking community in Gainesville.
There are still at least nine other bike repair 
shops in the area including Gator Cycle and Bike Works. In addition, many UF students will rely on the free service the Student Gov-ernment Bike Repair shop offers in the Reitz Union.
“The Reitz does the exact same thing, but 
they don’t charge any money. I didn’t even think about going to other stores,” said Katrina Mur, a 28-year-old business graduate student. 
“What’s the point?”
However, Serrano disagrees.
“Working on bicycles is very difﬁ  cult, no 
matter what people make you think. I couldn’t take my bike to the Reitz,” Serrano said. “It’s a trust thing.”
Meanwhile, Richards said he hopes the 
store’s closing has little impact.
“I hope the bike community in Gainesville 
continues to get bigger and better,” Richards said. “We put on a lot of events, and I hope other people take them on and continue.”Local bike shop to close LOCALWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For 
August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-
2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
1-5-15-18-2
3300 SW 23rd St. Apt #1, 2BR/1BA w/ small 
separate study/office, large screened porch & W/D hk-ups, floors: tile & wood, new kitch-en. $800/mo. $950 sec dep. Pets ok w/add'l fees. Call 352-371-3473 pls leave mssg.    12-9-15-8-2
AVAIL AUG 1ST 4BR/2BA, 10 blks from cam-pus. Nice house, wood floors, W/D provided, etc. $1550/mo, 1105 NW 10th Ave, Text or call 352-339-2342. More houses available at www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-8-15-2-2
AVAIL AUG 1ST 4BR/2BA big, nice house with big backyard. Plus full size hot tab, all ame-nities, plus W/D Text or call 352-339-2342. $1600/mo. 3413 NE 8th Ave. More houses at www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-8-15-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!One bedroom/one bath in 4br/4bath condo $350/mo. Countryside condominiums, 4000 
SW 23rd St. Includes Internet, cable TV lami-
nate flooring, washer & dryer. Furnished or 
unfurnished. 1st floor location. Students only. 
Call Bill (407) 620-0401    12-9-15-8-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-9-12-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified7 Computers 6 Furnishings 2For Rent
unfurnished 1For Rent
furnished 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      12-9-16-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       12-9-16-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-5-15-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       1-5-15-36-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-5-15-5-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 Under the
weather
7 Like cotton candy
11 Fund-raising org.
14 Provoke15 Subtle glow16 Trip segment17 Utopian
18 WWI aircraft
20 They may
coordinate withfloor mats
22 Quarterback’s
target
23 Payroll deduction24 Volcanic debris25 Big maker of chips27 Till compartment29 Bedstead part
33 MSN, for one
36 Meander37 Under the
weather
38 Went different
ways ... or what
each of six sets
of circled lettersliterallyrepresents
42 Homer’s path
43 Middle name on
many patents
44 BYU or NYU
45 In the opposite
order
48 Modern address
starter
52 Tickle53 __ in November56 Mama bear, in
Madrid
57 1980s Peppard
co-star
58 Some deal closers62 Hit-by-pitch
consequence
64 West Point
students
65 Corner key66 Italian noble
family
67 Danish port
named for aNorse god
68 Pen69 Hammer-wielding
god
70 Got nervous, with
“up”
DOWN
1 Deliberately
misinforms
2 Like llamas3 Mountaineering
aid
4 Effort
5 City in New
York’s MohawkValley
6 Cowboy legend
__ Bill
7 Fill and then
some
8 Run smoothly
9 “The Haj” novelist
10 Siesta11 Often-fried
tropical fruit
12 With affection
13 “Act your __!”
19 Fallon’s
predecessor
21 TV channels 2-13
25 Computer debut
of 1981
26 Cholesterol
initials
28 Title for Noël
Coward
30 Seal-hunting
swimmers
31 Valentine card
hugs
32 Flat hats34 Barrel support35 Soccer legend
who turned 75 in201538 Most like a
schoolmarm
39 Precision
40 Device for binge-
watching
41 “How relaxing!”42 Gardner of the
silver screen
46 Cornerstone
abbr.
47 Furthermore49 Arcade coins50 African threat51 Got a C in, say54 Knotted
neckwear
55 Relief from the
sun
58 Diner breakfast
order
59 Chorus line?60 Card or D’back61 Yemeni 
seaport
62 __ Moines63 Wager
By Kurt Krauss©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/09/1512/09/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, December 9, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    12-9-15-17-14
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,Entry LevelPaid TrainingAccess To Reliable Transportation AndCommunicationRGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/Disabled 
$8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com     
1-8-15-11-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches is now hiring deli/bar help. No experience required. Must have reliable transportation. Applications ac-cepted at either 2327 NW 13th St or 5156 SW 34th St location.   12-9-15-6-14
Full Charge Bookkeeper
(SW Gainesville, FL) Looking for an experienced Accountant/ Full-Charge Bookkeeper needed to work full time for a finance/investment firm. Candidate must be detail oriented, punctual, dedicated, and responsible. Must also possess a strong work ethic and the ability to handle multiple projects. Salary is negotiable and may be adjusted based on experience and skill set. Email: susie@strategicgroup.org    1-5-15-3-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
DATA ENTRY POSITIONS (FT/PT)
Quickbooks experience helpful. Email re-
sume to: u2mebiz@gmail.com    1-5-15-2-14
Thorough cleaners needed with reliable cars 
and willing to drive to Williston, Jonesville ,morriston, and around Gainesville. Homes/apartments are cleaned 7days 8-5 and of-fices 7days 5p- until finished. weekly pay & 8.25/hr. Must pass a background check and drug test. Please call 352-214-0868 if inter-ested..    1-8-5-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    12-9-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    12-9-1-14
ATTN: Drivers - $2K Sign-On BonusLove Your Truck, Love Your Job!401K + Great BenefitsAvg $1100 WeeklyCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782www.drive4melton.com    12-9-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    12-9-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    12-9-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    12-9-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    12-9-1-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Compare Medicare Supplement Plans and Save! Call NOW during Open Enrollment to receive Free Medicare Quotes from Trusted, Affordable Companies! Get covered and Save! Call 855-993-5923    12-9-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    12-9-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
1. GEOGRAPHY: Which U.S. state 
is closest to Russia?
2. HISTORY: In what year did labor 
leader Jimmy Hoffa disappear?
3. FOOD & DRINK: What relative 
of the banana is a staple food in trop-
ical regions?
4. TIME: When is the next leap day?
5. MOVIES: What famous 1950s 
movie featured an unlikely couple 
named Charlie and Rose?
6. MUSIC: Who was the first artist to 
have a “greatest hits” album?
7. TELEVISION: Who starred as 
Simon Templar in “The Saint”?
8. SCIENCE: What is the most abun-
dant gas in the air we breathe on Earth?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: In 
olden days, what was the occupation of a wainwright?
10. ANIMAL KINGDON: What is a 
baby whale called?
Answers
1. Alaska2. 19753. The plantain4. Feb. 29, 20165. “The African Queen” (Humphrey 
Bogart, Katharine Hepburn)
6. Johnny Mathis
7. Roger Moore
8. Nitrogen. The air is made up of 
about 78 percent nitrogen, 21 percent oxygen and 1 percent other gasses.
9. One who makes or repairs wagons10. A calf
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
December 7, 2015 King Features Weekly Service
16 Health Services 19 Connections 23 Rides 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
Headline
Story description Pg#
Joining redshirt senior Jake 
McGee, senior linebacker Antonio Morrison has accepted his invitation to the 2016 Reese's Senior Bowl. We'll be back on Jan. 5
During the Winter break, stay up to date with UF athleticsby visiting us online at www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators volleyball garners Six AVCA All-Region Honors
The UF volleyball team, set to face Wisconsin on Friday in the NCAA 
T ournament Regional Semifinal, boasts a league-high six AVCA All-Southeast Region honorees: Rhamat Alhassan, Mackenzie Dagostino, Alex Holston, Ziva Recek and Carli Snyder while Simone Antwi is an honorable mention. Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF linebacker Jarrad Davis tackles Florida State running back Dalvin Cook during Florida's 27-2 loss to the Seminoles on 
Nov. 28 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Davis said he intends on returning for his senior season with the Gators. 
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
While much has deservedly been made 
about the skill of the seniors, Jim McElwain 
knows Florida’s remarkable 10-3 record this season couldn’t have been possible without the progression and subsequent contribu-
tions of the team’s underclassmen. 
One of the more notable players to step 
up this year for the Gators was linebacker 
Jarrad Davis, and it would have been under-standable if he opted to test his luck by leav-ing early for the NFL Draft.
But any notion that Davis would capital-
ize on his notable season was dismissed af-ter Saturday’s 29-15 loss to Alabama in the Southeastern Conference title game when he confirmed he planned on returning to UF for his senior year. 
“We’ve got the best recruit this class 
could ever have,” McElwain said about Da-vis opting to come back for another year. 
“He is a special player … that’s great news.”
Davis’ return will boost a linebacker ro-
tation that will surely miss the presence of 
senior Antonio Morrison, whose return from a devastating injury to start every game and lead UF with 97 tackles has given the team a figure on which to model not only their de-velopment but also their level of dedication.
Now that Davis has tempered fears he 
would depart early, there aren’t many play-Junior linebacker's return for next season strengthens UF
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
With his team leading by 10 
points late in the second half, 
Miami guard Sheldon McClellan 
dribbled up the court, crossed 
over a Florida defender, swished a three pointer and clapped his hands as he ran back on defense.
The sight became a familiar 
one for Florida. 
McClellan, who made three of 
his four three pointers, torched the Gators for 24 points on Tues-
day night.
Florida struggled offensively 
for most of its 66-55 loss to Mi-
ami in Coral Gables. Only three 
UF players scored during the first 
half, and the Gators were unable to cut into a lead that the Hurri-canes held for all but 30 seconds 
of game time.
“It was arguably our worst 
offensive game, but we’re going 
to have some of those nights,” 
said coach Mike White, whose Florida team lost back-to-back meet-
ings against Miami for the first time since 1985 on Tues-
day. “Until we can find some guys who can consistently step up and shoot the basketball from the perimeter, we better be aw-fully good defensively.”
Redshirt sophomore John Eg-
bunu was one of the lone bright spots for Florida (6-2). The 6-foot-11 center finished with a 
team-high 14 points and five re-
bounds on 5-of-10 shooting.
Forwards Dorian Finney-
Smith and Devin Robinson re-
corded 12 and 11 points, respec-
tively, and combined to shoot 9-of-17 from the field.
Florida’s other players com-
bined to shoot 8-of-30 from the 
field.
“You’re playing from behind 
the entire game,” White said of 
Florida’s poor offensive show-
ing.
Kasey Hill had a night to for-
get. The junior had four points 
on 1-of-7 shooting, including an 0-of-3 outing from three point 
range, and fouled out with Flor-Florida falls to Miami on the road
NONE WERE ON OFFENSE.
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Five Florida players found them-
selves on the coaches’ All-Southeast-
ern Conference teams, which were announced Tuesday afternoon.
Defensive lineman Jon Bullard 
and the cornerback duo of Ver-non Hargreaves III and Jalen Tabor 
earned first-team accolades, while 
linebacker Antonio Morrison and punter Johnny Townsend landed on the conference’s second team.
Bullard was Florida’s most dis-
ruptive player up front. The senior led Florida’s defensive line with 63 tackles and 17.5 tackles for loss while tying Alex McCalister for the team lead with 6.5 sacks.
Hargreaves and Tabor provided a 
safety net in the defensive backfield, with both recording four intercep-
tions. Tabor paced the conference 
with 14 pass breakups and 18 overall defended passes.
Morrison, less than a year re-
moved from a severe knee injury he   sustained in the Birmingham Bowl, was the heart and soul of Florida’s defense in his senior season. The linebacker has a team-best 97 tack-
les including 12 behind the line of 
scrimmage.
Townsend, a redshirt sopho-
more, continually pinned opponents deep into their own territory. Of his SEC-high-tying 79 punts, 29 pinned opponents inside their own 20-yard line and 26 went at least 50 yards.Five Gators named to 
coaches' All-SEC teamsSEE DRAFT,  PAGE 19
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 19“W e've got the best recruit this class 
could ever have. He is a special player.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach
Egbunu
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Noami Santos-Lamb steps onto 
the court of the O’Connell Center 
with all the confidence in the world.
Wearing her blue shorts and No. 
17 jersey, she’s ready to make a 
statement. Three of Florida’s top four 
point scorers are no longer on the ros-ter. Noami strives to fill the void.
She knows the system, the plays, 
the expectations.
It’s Aug. 18, 2012 — Florida’s 
fan day and a preseason scrimmage less than a week before the season opener — and Noami participates in 
a routine hitting drill. Florida calls it 
“Blue.”
Noami gets into position in the 
back row, about 15 feet away from the net, and waits as the play devel-ops. A teammate digs the ball into the air, passing it to the setter. Noami waits.
Once the ball leaves the setter’s 
hands, it’s go time.
Noami leaps up in front of 2,500 
fans and launches a ball over the net, a sneak attack meant to catch the op-position off guard.
When she hits the floor, she grips 
her knee in pain.
Trainer Randall Vereb runs to 
check on Florida’s up-and-coming 
outside hitter. Noami stops her.
“Don’t touch it,” Noami says. “It’s 
broken.”
•   •   •
In an instant, Noami went from 
the precipice of a starting job on one 
of the top collegiate volleyball teams in the country to seeing her career slip away. Everything she had built 
up slowly began to crumble. In the 
blink of an eye, Noami realized her athletic career wouldn’t last forever.
That day, Noami tore the ACL in 
her left knee, ending her sophomore season before it could even begin.
Three years and a second knee 
surgery later, she gave up playing the sport completely.
“It’s the downside of college ath-
letics when injuries are part of it,” UF volleyball coach Mary Wise said. “Noami is not the first player — I would love her to be the last player — whose career ended sooner than it was supposed to by an injury.”
Despite one more year of colle-
giate eligibility and a determination 
to keep playing, the student-athlete 
opted to become just a student.
“I realized I needed to priori-
tize something that’s never going to be taken away from me,” she said. “Your education, it’s something that you can never be stripped of.”
•   •   •
For more than a year after the 
2012 injury, Noami could only watch as her team continued to play and her knee continued to heal.
The ACL (anterior cruciate liga-
ment), one of four major knee liga-ments, is responsible for preventing the shin bone from sliding in front of the thigh bone.
If not treated correctly, an ACL 
tear can lead to additional cartilage damage and arthritis.
Average recovery time following surgery is about six to 12 months.
“We know that they can come 
back inside a year,” Wise said, “but they’re not really back.”
Noami worked daily with Vereb 
to regain strength in her knee. Ev-ery day, she walked into the training room, a different task waiting for her.
“I did everything my body al-
lowed me to do,” Noami said.
Six months after the surgery, No-
ami returned to practice in a limited fashion. She slowly added drills back 
to her repertoire. But her game, like 
her knee, was damaged.
In addition to her big smile, curly 
brown hair and powerful arm swing, Noami now sported a hefty brace on her left knee. Her mobility was lim-ited. Her jumps had less power. And her chance at a starting role never resurfaced.
“Once a decision’s made, there’s 
nothing you can do to reverse that,” Noami said. “Things are out of your hand. … Somebody makes that deci-sion, and you have to take it, put up and shut up, and support your team-mates.”
•   •   •
To Noami, it still feels like yester-
day when she picked up a volleyball for the first time.
But she didn’t limit herself to just 
the one sport.
A spirited 4-year-old growing up 
in Carolina, Puerto Rico, Noami tried just about every sport put in front of her. 
Track. Basketball. Gymnastics. 
She crossed paths with all of them at one point or another.
“I just had a lot of energy,” No-
ami said, “and my parents just tried 
to find a way to channel that energy 
into something productive.”
As she grew up, volleyball stood 
out above the rest, and the accolades rolled in throughout her prep career.
A spot on Puerto Rico’s roster at 
the 2010 FIVB World Championship.
A place on prepvolleyball.com’s 
list of senior aces, a group of the top 
250 high school volleyball players.
And, eventually, an offer to play 
volleyball at the University of Florida, 
a perennial powerhouse at the colle-giate level under Wise.
“It was really eye-opening to see 
that you can make a professional ca-reer out of volleyball,” Noami said. “It’s not just something that can just 
get you into school or something that 
you do for fun.”
But Noami’s affinity with UF su-
perceded athletics.
On her first trip to UF during her 
senior year in high school, Noami walked past the Fine Arts building and instantly fell in love. The school’s rich volleyball tradition was great, 
but the opportunity to get a top-notch 
education sealed the deal.
“I didn’t even need anything 
else,” Noami said. “It wasn’t even the sports aspect of it for me. It was like, ‘I can get a great education here.’”
•   •   •
Noami moved to Gainesville 
alone, a freshman almost 2,000 miles away from home.
But the then-17-year-old quickly 
found a family in 14 sisters on UF’s 
volleyball team who helped her through everything.
“When you get here as a fresh-
man as a normal student, if you don’t 
know anybody who came into it with you from high school, you literally have no friends,” Noami said. “When you come in as an athlete, you come in with people who will ride or die 
for you.”
Chloe Mann, then a redshirt 
sophomore middle blocker, was one 
of her biggest supporters. Playing to-gether established the connection. A shared love for dry humor, television and food kept the relationship going long after Mann left UF.
“If either one of us is upset, we’ll 
just be like ‘Do you want to go to Mc-Donald’s?’ That’ll just brighten our mood,” Mann said. “We just knew each other on that level, and I feel like that’s what kept the relationship light and fun and easygoing.”
Four-and-a-half years later and 
9,500 miles apart — Noami in Gainesville continuing her education; 
Chloe in Thailand continuing her pro-
fessional volleyball career — the two are still close, and the conversations remain extensive.
They text daily and talk on Face-
Time a couple times a week. They reminisce over memories of playing together. They catch up on the FX se-ries “Sons of Anarchy,” a show the 
two started watching on Netflix a 
couple months ago.
“Our bond just couldn’t be bro-
ken,” Mann said.
•   •   •
When Florida’s 2011 season 
opener against Boston College came around, Noami didn’t know what to expect.
Even after months of practice, 
it all still felt like a blur. Her nerves were a wreck. Would she perform up to expectations? Would she remem-ber the formations?
With the Gators holding a com-
manding lead in the second set, Noami received her first chance to prove herself. She checked in for se-nior Stephanie Ferrell, her first taste 
of collegiate game action about to 
ensue.
“It’s just eye-opening to say ‘Fi-
nally, it’s here,’” she said.
She stayed on the court for the fi-
nal 10 plays of the set, recording two attacking errors and a service error, three points for the opposition.
It wasn’t the start she wanted, but 
as the season progressed, so did No-ami. 
Her attacking technique became 
more crisp. Her serve, which reached speeds up to 60 miles per hour, be-came more refined. Her confidence soared each time she checked in.
“Noami was definitely one to 
break your fingers if you’re blocking 
her,” Mann said. “She’s really power-
ful, and she’s a really gritty player.”
But with two seniors ahead of her 
on the depth chart, Noami spent the majority of her freshman year on the bench. In total, she played in just 20 of UF’s 117 sets, recording 11 kills, 
three blocks and a service ace.
With Kristy Jaeckel, Ferrell and 
four-time All-American right-side hit-
ter Kelly Murphy on their way out after the 2011 season, Noami was ready to seize a starting job.
“She had nailed down that posi-
tion,” Wise said. “We were going to ride that arm all season.”But the week before the 2012 sea-
son opener, the opportunity vanished when her knee buckled under her at that preseason scrimmage during a drill she practiced thousands of times in her life.
“When that happened before the 
very first match, it took the wind out 
of us,” Wise said. “We had no idea. 
The very next weekend, we were drawing lineups up on a napkin try-ing to figure it out.”
The Gators continued playing 
without Noami. They still had a sea-son to play, a Southeastern Confer-ence title to defend.
When Noami was cleared to play 
in 2013, she was back near the bot-tom of the depth chart, behind two players yet again.
Over the next two seasons, Noami 
would play 27 more matches before reinjuring her knee last season — a consequence of trying to get back on the court too quickly.
After undergoing a second surgery 
in January to clear out cartilage, her doctor gave her an ultimatum: She could play her senior year and risk undergoing a third knee surgery or hang up the jersey and preserve her knee.
Noami chose the latter, effectively 
ending her playing career.
“She was certainly the fun-loving 
player,” Wise said, “but that injury just wore her down. … It was an easy decision.”
•   •   •
Standing behind the service line in 
the Oak Hall School Gymnasium, No-ami blasts a volleyball over the net.
She still has it.It’s serve-receive time at volley-
ball practice and Noami, the head coach of the girls junior varsity team, is taking a hands-on approach with her coaching style.
She’s not playing anymore, but 
her time on the court is still fresh in her mind.
Noami’s athletic career is over, 
but Wise said she has insight others her age lack. She had learned how to bounce back. From bad matches. From injury. From adversity.
“It’s not all a smooth ride, and if 
anyone would know that, that would be Noami,” Wise said. “Enjoy and embrace the opportunity because you never know when it could be 
taken away.”
It’s been almost a year since No-
ami stopped playing the sport she 
grew up mastering.
She doesn’t miss it.The hours of practice, the grueling 
workouts, playing under the lights of the O’Connell Center, none of it.
“It sucks I can’t play anymore, but 
now I can teach,” Noami said.
And she can still take time to 
learn, too. Noami graduates from UF this month, earning her Bachelor’s degree in advertising. She’ll be the first in her family to walk across the stage and receive her diploma. She applied to grad school at UF, looking to extend her education and ultimate-
ly pursue a career in tourism.
“The volleyball piece might not 
have been written the way she or I 
or anybody else wanted, but boy her academic one is going to be written,” Wise said, “and she’s going to benefit from that long after her volleyball ca-reer would have ended either way.”
It’s been a long road. To Noami, 
everything worked out for the best.
“It was fantastic to know that I 
had that backfall, that I do have that education,” Noami said. “I do have a fantastic education. And I did that through sports.”WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   17
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Noami Santos-Lamb swings for a kill attempt during Florida’s 3-2 
win against Oklahoma on Aug. 30, 2014, in the O’Connell Center. 
From student-athlete to student
A volleyball player’s story18   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015
VOLLEYBALL
Dec. 11: No. 11 seed Florida vs. No. 6 seed 
Wisconsin in Austin, Texas, at 5:30 p.m. (ESPN3) 
Dec. 12: No. 11 seed Florida (if advances) vs. 
No. 14 seed UCLA OR No. 3 seed Texas in 
Austin, Texas, at 9 p.m. (ESPNU)SWIMMING & DIVING
Dec. 15-20: USA Diving Nationals in Indianapolis, Indiana
Jan. 2: Florida vs. Florida State in Gainesville 
at 2 p.m. WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
Dec. 10: Florida vs. Wisconsin in Madison, Wisconsin, at 8 p.m. (Big Ten Network)
Dec. 13: Florida vs. Robert Morris in 
Gainesville at 2 p.m.)
Dec. 20-21: Gator Holiday Classic in Gainesville 
(Games at noon and 2:30 p.m. both days; UF games on SEC Network+)
Dec. 30: Florida vs. UCF in Jacksonville at 7 
p.m. (SEC Network)
Jan. 3: Florida vs. Mississippi State in 
Gainesville at 1 p.m. (SEC Network)MEN’S BASKETBALL
Dec. 12: Florida vs. No. 1 Michigan State in 
East Lansing, Michigan, at 6 p.m. (ESPN2)
Dec. 19: Florida vs. Oklahoma State in Sunrise, 
Florida, at 8 p.m. (Fox Sports Network)
Dec. 22: Florida vs. Jacksonville in Gainesville 
at 7 p.m. (SEC Network+)
Dec. 29: Florida vs. Florida State in Gainesville 
at 7 p.m. (ESPN2)
Jan. 2: Florida vs. Georgia in Gainesville at 2 
p.m. (ESPNU)FOOTBALL
Jan. 1: No. 19 Florida vs. No. 14 Michigan in Orlando at 1 p.m. (Citrus Bowl)SPORTSINSTAGRAHAM
Before I worked at the Alligator, I had intended to drop out of college. 
I’m serious – I truly wanted to 
ﬁ  gure out something better to do, 
and I was far from content with 
where my life was headed.
Those around me — my parents and 
friends I conﬁ  ded in — were aware that I 
spent the majority of my life convinced I 
didn’t want a college education. It just didn’t seem like something I needed.
But that’s partly because of my upbring-
ing. I have to tell you about who I was before I worked at the Alligator for you to understand why I wanted to work here.
Born and raised in Gainesville, I was well-
off growing up and, until high school, I didn’t 
have much adversity in my life.
My fraternal twin sister, two minutes older 
than me and the recipient of 90 percent of 
whatever good looks my parents could have gifted us, is easy to get along with and rarely outspoken in a confrontational manner.
Often a shy introvert, she would spend 
her time looking at galleries of models rather than wasting her time seeking the approval of 
whomever society had deemed popular that 
year. She wanted to be a model, and didn’t care what anyone thought.
I didn’t understand her contentedness with 
self-gratiﬁ  cation, considering it would come in a solely image-focused profession, but I did envy how undeterred she was when it came to reaching her goals of becoming a model.
I never had anything that pushed me as 
hard as her dreams pushed her. 
When I stopped growing once I’d reached 
6-foot-barely as a 14-year-old freshman at Gainesville High, my dad went away. 
Without going into too much detail – it’s 
the past, and while I’m not ashamed of any-thing I or my family has done, I would prefer to leave it there – my father was arrested, con-victed and later sentenced to 70 months at a 
correctional institute in Miami.
I didn’t get down or hate my father – he 
knows my feelings for him haven’t changed, 
nor have the experiences I went through caused my love for my family to diminish.
A lot of emotions ﬂ  ew around in the en-
suing months from my mother and sister as they struggled to internalize and adapt to the whirlwind we had been dragged into.
But strangely, I felt none of that.I’m not saying I’m cold, callous and un-
able to feel sympathy or understand, but I just didn’t have time to deal with everything that was going on.
I never really have dealt with it to this day. Instead, I subconsciously justiﬁ  ed the 
presence of it as something I needed to prove I could overcome while my family around me struggled.
In the years that followed, I worked when-
ever I had free time – and not due to needing money or to avoid being a burden.
But because when it came to college, I 
wanted to make sure I had opportunities to get away from Gainesville when my time to leave came.
It turns out I didn’t need to escape, even 
though I still question whether I should have.
I got into UF unexpectedly, and after much 
thought I decided to stay home; my parents were still working things out, Florida is an amazing university and this was my home.
Yet I didn’t know what I wanted to do with 
my education, and no one, especially myself, seemed to know what I would be good at.
I ended up choosing psychology as my 
major, and that did nothing but solidify my conviction to withdraw from UF.
But I would have never forgiven myself if 
I had quit without studying a ﬁ  eld involving English, which had marveled me ever since I 
had fully grasped its importance in everyone’s 
existence.
Upon deciding to change my major to jour-
nalism without much thought of it possibly leading to immense debt, I looked into work-ing at the Alligator.
I applied in January 2014 and became a 
copy editor, eventually working my way up to sports editor in a little more than a year.
This paper has helped me realize I can 
do something as an individual that matters, rather than following the path that millions before me had ventured down more intelli-gently than myself.
I have found something that I’m internally 
driven to get better at instead of exerting my-self on tasks I ﬁ  nd menial.
The last two years have meant more to me than I could hope to put into words, and I ﬁ  rst must thank you, the reader, for giving me the time that maintains my eagerness to dedicate mine.
I couldn’t be more grateful, and I hope you 
will follow me wherever I wind up next.
My parents – forgive me for using our fam-
ily to explain how I am here, but I hope it helps you realize I’m aware that I couldn’t be in the position I’m at without your constant love, understanding and support.
Maddie — you rule and I will always sup-
port you.
My amazing girlfriend, Taylor, who has 
given me unwavering support for the entire time I’ve been working the unreasonable hours we all do. You keep me sane and cen-tered always, and for that I am so grateful and couldn’t thank you enough.
And as I struggle to keep it together, I 
wouldn’t exist as a potential success nor would I be anywhere near as happy, blessed or optimistic about my future success with-
out the invaluable support and care of my co-
workers who are like family.
Jordan McPherson, you have taught me 
nearly everything I’ve learned here, and with-out your guidance I couldn’t have survived these past eight months as sports editor. You are one of, it not the, smartest man I have met in this profession without even consider-ing your age, and you will achieve anything 
you want. 
Emily Cochrane, Graham Hack and Luis 
Torres: I hope you all know how much you 
mean to me, and I’ll always be there for you just like you’ve been here for me.
To everyone else — thank you for support-
ing us.
Although we make errors and may offend, 
we are people who sacriﬁ  ce our time and do 
this because we believe that staying informed 
is necessary to understand the world we live in and is essential to the development of a person.
Which encapsulates myself in a sense, and 
is the main reason I described my life to this point: Maintaining a conscious assessment of myself and what I wanted helped me develop and ﬁ  nd out what I would be happy doing.
I’ll leave you with some advice that I 
couldn’t see myself being here without.
Find out what you want to do before it’s 
too late by learning what makes you feel alive. More importantly, conﬁ  dently accept that what you want to do might not coexist with the expectations and hopes of others. Taking a risk to do what you love can change your life
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311ida down by 13 points late in the second 
half.
Miami didn’t shoot particularly well ei-
ther, hitting on just 39.2 percent of its ﬁ  eld goal attempts. But the Hurricanes were ac-curate from deep, connecting on 7-of-17 
three pointers compared to the Gators’ 
1-for-12 performance behind the arc.
Miami (8-1) guard Angel Rodriguez 
added to the Hurricanes’ strong night from 
long range, making 3-of-5 threes and ﬁ  n-
ishing with 17 points.
Florida’s schedule doesn’t get any eas-
ier. The Gators will face No. 1 Michigan State on Saturday at 6 p.m. on ESPN2.“We never got into a really good rhythm 
until real late in the game,” White said.
 “I think they won the physicality 
matchup and took the ﬁ  ght to us.”
A radio broadcast contributed to this 
report.WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
600 NW 5th Ave
Gainesville
FL 32601
(352) 
384-1008Fades and FrosAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF coach Mike White calls out a play during Florida's 104-54 win over North 
Carolina A&T on Nov. 16 in the O'Connell Center. 
HOOPS,  from pg16UF was 1-for-12 from three
ers who could surprise by opting to consult 
the NFL for a grade.
Besides Vernon Hargreaves III, who has 
been forthcoming for months about his in-tention to receive an assessment from the 
NFL of his stock, it’s unknown if any Florida 
players intend on ﬁ  ling paperwork with the league. 
But just because a player consults the 
league for an opinion on potential draft po-sition doesn’t mean they’re a lock to leave the Gators early. 
If a player were to receive an evaluation 
with a lower rating than expected, he may 
opt to return to the university for another 
season.
There’s a strong possibility that several 
UF players capitalize on that opportunity — the chance to receive an assessment of their skills from a potential NFL employer while still enrolled in school. 
Junior running back Kelvin Taylor is a 
strong candidate to make the leap after 
breaking out in the backﬁ  eld this season. 
Taylor needed just 23 yards in Saturday’s 
game to become the ninth UF running back 
to reach 1,000 rushing yards in a season, but fell short with just eight yards against the Crimson Tide. 
And despite off-the-ﬁ  eld issues that re-
sulted in his suspension for the Florida State game, Demarcus Robinson would presum-
ably have upside in the NFL with his 6-foot-
1 frame and UF-leading 47 receptions.
McElwain said that if a player were to re-
ceive a glowing recommendation, he would feel out of place discouraging him from cap-italizing on an opportunity to live out the dream.
“I'm a guy, by no means, that’s going 
to try and talk them in or out of that. Ev-
erybody’s different, everybody has a some-
thing else going on,” McElwain said. “I do know this, if they’re in the ﬁ  rst round, that’s something you really gotta look at, and the thing that I think they don’t understand sometimes is the difference between those early round signing bonus and in the later rounds. In some cases it’s better for them to maybe come back and try to help their 
status.”
But Robinson said he isn’t thinking of the 
NFL — at least not yet.The taste of recent defeat served ﬁ  rst 
by Florida State and then Alabama is still 
fresh, having soured the tongues of UF play-ers salivating for a dessert to top off their sweet season – a trip to the College Football Playoff.
“Of course I’m not satisﬁ  ed,” Robinson 
said. “I mean, I deﬁ  nitely could’ve made more plays. I feel like I could’ve been a 
beneﬁ  t to my team more, especially in 
this game. We didn’t lose too many games though.”
Robinson said he plans to talk to his fam-
ily and coaches before making a decision, but with unﬁ  nished business on his mind, it’s possible the Gators could return four of their ﬁ  ve leading receiving options.
Although the contributions of players 
like Taylor, Robinson and Hargreaves will surely be missed by McElwain and Gator fans alike, the end of the regular season means the Gators are preparing for the start of the next. 
With the No. 9 recruiting class in the na-
tion according to 247Sports’ ranking, UF is in a favorable position to reload and build depth across the board. 
Most notably, the quarterback position 
— an area in which Florida visibly struggled in the latter half of the season due to facing tough opposition combined with the lack of progression, signaling regression, for sopho-more Treon Harris — could see a signiﬁ  cant upgrade.
The Gators received a commitment from 
four-star quarterback Feleipe Franks and are 
in the running for ﬁ  ve-star signal caller Ja-
cob Eason, who told his hometown paper he intends to decide between Georgia — where he’s been committed since after his sopho-more season, yet has wavered in the wake of coach Mark Richt’s removal — and the Gators.
With National Signing Day less than 
two months away, McElwain is already on 
the road recruiting the next Gators to up-
hold the responsibility of continuing UF’s regained status as competitors at both the conference and national levels. 
But for the next month, the team is fo-
cused on facing Michigan and the opportu-nity it gives players to continue improving.
“I look at this bowl opportunity and prac-
tice (as a chance) to really help your team 
get better,” McElwain said, “Not only for 
this ball game but for the long-term future.” DRAFT,  from pg16Junior Vernon Hargreaves 
intends to enter NFL Draft
Florida-Miami recent match-ups
Nov. 17, 2014
Miami 69, Florida 67
March 21, 2009
Florida 74, Miami 60
Dec. 22, 2005  
Florida 77, Miami 67
UF leads the series 45-2220   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2015
