We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 3 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015
Florida defense focusing on 
creating havoc with pass rush
Jim McElwain emphasizing strong defensive 
line play, pg. 13
UF Bookstore oﬀ  ers price match and tax breaks 
to students
Students receive a gift card with the difference, pg. 5
GatorNights brings comedian to Reitz
He played a role in the comedy “Neighbors,” pg. 3Back to School photo story
See how students are adjusting to the back-
to-school grind, pg. 8.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Walking the Line
Rebecca Hoesterey (center), a 19-year-old UF pre-nursing sophomore, slacklines for the ﬁ  rst time with the help of Therese 
Miller, a 19-year-old UF biology sophomore, and Thomas Power, a 20-year-old UF aerospace and mechanical engineering junior on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday.
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
She’s a world-renowned American ac-
tress and country singer.
But she might not be the only per-
former at Gator Growl, held on Nov. 6 at 
Flavet Field, said Santiago Ramirez, Gator 
Growl’s AP of Communications.
Starting Tuesday, talent hints for Gator 
Growl were posted on Facebook, Insta-
gram and Twitter.  The talent will be re-vealed Monday, and students will be able to guess who the talent is on social media until Sunday, Ramirez said.
But there’s a catch:  Students won’t 
know how many performers will be at Gator Growl, he said.
If they can correctly guess all perform-
ers on social media by Sunday, Ramirez said they will win a tank top and T-shirt.
“This year’s talent is hopefully going to 
capture the Gator Nation,” the 21-year-old said.
Those planning Gator Growl are taking 
student surveys from last year’s event into consideration, Ramirez said.  To address long lines at food trucks, he 
said they are trying to bring more trucks, including some serving concession-stand-type foods, like hot dogs and nachos.
With the changes, tickets are expect-
ed to sell out before Gator Growl again, Ramirez said.
This year’s theme is “Be the Tradi-
tion,” and students can share their tradi-
tion stories with #myUFtradition, he said.
“Every student really has their own 
story to tell and to just experience here,” 
Ramirez said.
Tristan Ahlquist, who is facilitating 
Gator Growl public relations, said he likes the event’s heavy emphasis on tradition-making.Gator Growl hints at talentCAMPUS
By Gabriella Nuñez
Alligator Staff Writer
Albert and Alberta aren’t just on the ﬁ  eld; they’re 
on Tinder waiting to see who will be their next match.
The University Athletic Association has partnered 
with the popular location-based social-discovery app to 
provide two lucky winners with a Saturday night in the Swamp.
“I was just taking a look at Tinder, swiping left and 
right, and all of a sudden, Alberta popped up,” ﬁ  nance freshman Brendan Barany said. “I ﬁ  gured, ‘How could 
I turn down our pretty mascot?’ So after, I swiped right, 
and we matched.”
By swiping right and matching with the mascots, us-
ers enter a contest to experience pre-game warm-ups on 
the sidelines with Albert and Alberta before the Gators 
kick off the 2015 season.
But students weren’t even aware that by swiping 
they were entering.
“What contest?” Barany, 18, said. “We matched, I 
followed the link, and it took me to Twitter where I 
could post that I just got matched with her.”
The contest isn’t explicitly promoted with the link 
Albert or Alberta provides on Tinder. Instead, it leads to Twitter, where one can tweet one of the mascots using the hashtag #SwipeRightAlbert or #SwipeRightAlberta.
“We didn’t want to put the contest out there on Tin-
der,” said Jennifer Mereby, who coordinated the Tin-der proﬁ  les at the UAA. “We wanted to treat them like they’re normal Tinder users on the app, and within the app, it’s done very well.”
And though Albert and Alberta have pretty realistic 
proﬁ  les stating that “Tinder is just like the chomp, al- Swipe right for 
Albert, Alberta and win tickets 
By Kyle Bennett
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Students this semester will have a different 
variety of bus options.
The city’s Regional Transit System ofﬁ  -
cially added ﬁ  ve new bus routes and discon-
tinued two others last week to better connect 
routes and attract more riders. While buses on 
routes 21 and 41 were discontinued, students can now take routes 37, 19, 29 and 40 from campus through Gainesville during the day and route 129 at night.
“Two of the new routes that are aimed at 
students are already performing well,” said Chip Skinner, marketing and communica-tions supervisor for RTS. He said the nation-wide average for a successful route is around 15 passengers.
For Bree Lawhead, a 20-year-old nurs-ing third year, the new routes have already helped her commute.
“There used to only be two buses that 
would take me to the HPNP building which is where all my classes are,” she said.“Now I seem to be able to get a bus right away.”
For other students, however, the new com-
bination of routes has yet to be successful.
“It still really doesn’t ﬁ  x the issue,” said 
Jordan Hadeed, a 21-year-old mechanical en-gineering senior, who used to ride route 21 before the cancellation. “The 20s are always crowded and if I ever need to take it, it’s just irritating.” RTS adds new bus routes closer to campus, discontinues othersSEE TINDER,  PAGE 4“I igured, ‘How could I turn down our pretty 
mascot?’ So after, I swiped right, and we 
matched.”
Brendan Barany
UF finance freshmanMore clues will be released
“Two of the new routes that are aimed 
at students are already performing 
well.”
Chip Skinner
marketing and  communications supervisorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Learn to live in motion at 
RecStravaganza
Join UF RecSports Thursday, 
Aug. 27 from 6 to 8 p.m. at Southwest Recreation Center for our annual open house, 
RecStravaganza! The event will 
feature complimentary chair 
massages, fitness demonstra-tions, weight room orientations, 
free food, giveaways and more! 
Interested in joining one of UF’s 47 Sport Clubs? Members from each Sport Club will be present to answer any questions you may have about joining a team. Additionally, information on the 10 league sports and seven flash tournaments RecSports is offer-ing this semester will also be available. Participants can earn a free Live in Motion T-shirt by visiting different tables at the event and meeting our staff and participants. No registration is necessary! You won’t want to miss this event. Visit recsports.ufl.edu for more information.
Gay Movie Night
Friday, Aug. 28 at 7:30 p.m. at Pride Community Center, 3131 NW 13th St. This screw-ball comedy follows a young gay couple who discover a secret room filled with cash while house-sitting for celebrity friends who die under mysteri-ous circumstances overseas, but can they make a clean get away with the money? Gay Movie Night is a free service of the Pride Community Center. A $2 donation is requested to help cover cost of snacks.GatorNights
GatorNights will kick off the Fall semester with Hidden 
Stages, a music festival themed 
event, on Friday, Aug. 28, from 
8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz 
Union. The event will feature live music from Evan Taylor 
and Duke, free food, henna 
tattoos and more. GatorNights 
will also be hosting showings 
of the movie “Jurassic World” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Auditorium. The 
night will end with a comedy 
show from Jerrod Carmichael, supporting actor in the movie “Neighbors” and star of NBC’s 
“The Carmichael Show.” 
Have an Adventure
Outdoor Adventure Recreation 
(OAR) is holding a meet-
ing this Thursday (and sub-
sequent Thursdays) in Yon 
Hall at 6:30 p.m. Hiking the Appalachian Mountains, cave tubing in Tennessee, road trip-ping to spectacular sites in the Southwest, paddling and rope swinging on the Suwannee, exploring countries in the Caribbean and even weekly climbing and Ultimate Frisbee are all real possibilities with OAR. Come to the first meeting to discover how you can ex-plore the outdoors, embark on adventures and master recre-ation skills. Go to ufadventure.com to join the organization, sign up for upcoming trips and find more information.
GRR Swamp City Sirens vs. 
Palm Coast Roller Derby!Come cheer on the Swamp City Sirens Saturday, Aug. 29 as they take on Palm Coast Roller Derby in the last home bout of the 2015 season!**BONUS! The Ocala Cannibal 
Roller Derby Junior team, the 
Ocala Carnivores, will show off 
their skills for you during half-
time!Doors open at 6 p.m.; bout 
starts at 7 p.m.
Tickets are $8 in advance and 
$10 at the door. Tickets can 
be purchased at brownpaper-tickets.com, Volta Coffee, Tea 
& Chocolate, Sweet Dreams of 
Gainesville FL., Wild Iris Books, 
or from your favorite derby girl! As always, kids 12 and under get in free. FED Food Company 
will be providing delicious 
goodies for you, and we will 
also have drinks available for cash or credit.After the bout, join us at 
Gainesville House Of Beer for 
our after party!
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 4 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events and keep them 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will  not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 110 ISSUE 3
HIGH  93° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Harry Kassal, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Eric Koblick, Ana Puyana, Eva Sailly,   
  Nadine Rae Saladino, Makayla Thomas
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville Police arrested a lo-
cal man Monday after he reported-
ly burglarized a neighbor’s home 
and sold their belongings for drug 
money.
Emmanuel Markus Glaser, 28, reportedly broke into the bedroom of a home in the 800 block of NW 41st Ave. and stole $2,650 worth 
of items, including a television, 
laptop, cash and jewelry, accord-ing to a police report.
The owner, Laura Kennedy, 
68, said she recently hired Glaser to mow her lawn and had men-tioned a trip out of town.
“Be careful 
who you be-
friend,” she said. “You just never know.”
After the 
theft, Kennedy 
visited Value Pawn and Jewelry, located at 2360 N. Main St., and discovered that Glaser tried to sell her watch Friday, according to the report. The watch, Kennedy said, was a retirement gift to her father.
Police checked Glaser’s recent 
pawn transactions and found Ken-nedy’s gold necklace pawned at another shop. After his arrest, Gla-
ser reportedly confessed to stealing 
and selling the goods to buy drugs, according to the report.
“We have restraints; we have 
covenants; we have rules and regulations, and our lives are gov-erned by ethics and compassion,” Kennedy said. “When you’re into 
drugs, all of that goes to the way-
side.”
Police arrested Glaser on charg-
es of burglary, larceny, fraud, and 
dealing in stolen property. Au-
thorities transported him to the Alachua County Jail where he re-mains as of press time in lieu of a $180,000 bond.  IT IS PART OF THE COFFEE SHOP’S 
GRADUAL EXPANSION
Jordanne Laurito
Alligator Contributing Writer
Karma Cream is cranking up the caffeine this Fall.As part of a gradual expansion, the coffee shop 
at 1025 W. University Ave. installed a dual-head 
espresso machine, allowing workers to brew two 
cups of coffee simultaneously instead of the usual 
one cup.
Owner Kyle Fick said this new installment will 
allow Karma Cream to produce coffee at the same 
rate that a normal café would, describing it as an 
investment in coffee-making power.
“This will help us especially during week nights 
when people are studying,” he said. “We’re open 
late, and that’s when we get a lot of coffee busi-
ness.”
While the new machine will expand the coffee 
aspect of the shop, coffee wasn’t always the focus of 
the 7-year-old cafe. Fick said the shop, known for its fair-trade foods and vegan options, initially focused 
more on baked goods and ice cream.
“When we ﬁ  rst started, coffee was more of an 
afterthought,” he said. “But the students proved us 
wrong, and sales have been steadily increasing.”
Alani Ilori, the assistant marketing and advertis-
ing director at Marston Science Library, said Karma Cream is one of her preferred places to hang out and study.
Though she only recently started drinking coffee 
every day after developing a taste for it, Ilori said she enjoys the shop’s coffee.
“I like that they use leftover coffee to make ice 
cubes,” she said. “That way when the ice melts, it’s still coffee.”
She said the atmosphere of the place is also part 
of the experience.
“It’s quiet, it’s not too big and there’s plenty 
of outlets,” she said. “I really like the art and bar stools, too.”
John Hursh / Alligator 
Nick Bowden, 20, operates the new espresso ma-
chine at Karma Cream on Tuesday. “It was time to get a replacement, and this one is so much better, ” Bowden said.
CAMPUS
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org 
The first GatorNights of the 
semester kicks off Friday with 
a performance by one of televi-sion’s up-and-coming comedi-ans.
Jerrod Carmichael, best-
known for his role as frater-nity brother Garf in the movie “Neighbors,” will be cracking jokes on the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom stage at 10:30 p.m. as part of GatorNights’ first event.  He will be paid $10,000.  
The event will run from 8 
p.m. to 1 a.m.
Josh Wilson, a Reitz Union 
program coordinator, said the event was created as a fun way to introduce new students to the Reitz.
“We try to kick off the first of 
the year extra special,” he said.
Carmichael’s new show, 
“The Carmichael Show,” pre-mieres tonight on NBC. Wilson said the Reitz wanted to pick a performer relevant to UF stu-dents.
“He is definitely blowing up 
right now, so this is a good time for us to have him and an excit-ing time for him as well in his career,” he said.
Kathleen Johnston, a UF 
health science sophomore and 
supplies coordinator of the Ga-
torNights Committee, said she hadn’t heard of Carmichael be-fore. 
She said she’s been look-
ing forward to his performance since watching his YouTube videos. 
“It’s kind of exciting that 
we’re getting him as he’s be-coming more and more popu-lar,” the 19-year-old said.
Although UF food science 
junior Sarah Potter said she’s 
not into comedy, she will still 
attend for the screening of “Ju-rassic World.”
“There’s always something 
fun there for everybody,” the 20-year-old said.  GatorNights brings 
comedian to Reitz
 Local man arrested for $2,650 theft, used money for drugsKarma Cream adds new machine
Jewelry was among items
Glaser
“He is deinitely blowing up 
right now, so this is a good 
time for us to have him and 
an exciting time for him as 
well in his career.” 
Josh Wilson
Reitz Union 
program coordinator4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015By Briana Erickson
Alligator Staff Writer 
A new company has scooted 
onto 13th Street, ready to serve stu-
dents during the new school year.
Gainesville’s New Scooters 4 
Less opened a second location at 
633 NW 13th St. last week, adding 
to its location at 118 NW 14th Ave. The new location takes the place of another scooter store, Swamp-
Cycles, which closed during the 
summer.
Manager Brad Austin said that 
the scooter company always want-ed to be closer to campus, and when SwampCycles asked them if they would be interested in buying, they didn’t hesitate.
“We flipped the place in 30 
days,” Austin said. With a new roof, floor and counter as part of 
an entire renovation, he said, the 
company was ready for August, the busiest time of the year when new students flood the streets.
Despite the fact that the new ad-
dress does not appear immediately in a Google search, Austin said, both stores have been busy.
“We’re just getting a lot of walk-
in traffic,” Austin said, adding that the new store has made 33 sales this week in the new location. He said he expects to exceed last year’s sales of 636 to 800 new scooters be-tween the two locations.
UF applied physiology and ki-
nesiology junior Alyssa Yambor-Maul said that she wouldn’t have 
purchased her new scooter Tues-
day morning if she hadn’t been passing by 13th Street and seen the balloons and scooters outside the location.
“I had a scooter before, but I 
needed a new one,” Yambor-Maul, 20, said.
After seeing New Scooters 4 
Less, she decided to stop inside to take a look.
“It’s hard getting around with-
out a scooter, and going to this location was the easiest way,” she said.
Austin said that the store is of-
fering three-year warranty and two-year road-side assistance with purchases of specific brands 
at both stores. Standing in front 
of bean bag couches and colorful chalkboard “guest walls” inside the new building, he said the com-pany’s motto is to provide “U.C.E.” - ultimate customer experience.
“Students are our livelihood,” 
he said. “We get to come to work because of them.” 
John Hursh / Alligator 
Brad Austin, 27, mans the desk at the New Scooters 4 Less store 
on 633 NW 13th St. on Tuesday.
LOCAL
New Scooters 4 Less store opens
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Four UF freshmen smiled as 
they Gator chomped in front of Bull 
Gator — their first UF tradition.
Josh Rutledge, 18, a UF aero-
space engineering freshman, went 
with his three friends to Rally in 
the Swamp Sunday in part to cheer on the Gators and to fulfill a tradi-tion.
The chomp is one of 40 tradi-
tions that UF students need to 
complete in order to earn a medal 
to wear at graduation. The list of traditions, found in the F Books handed out at Preview, include sa-voring Krishna spaghetti, napping on the Plaza of the Americas and visiting the UF bat houses, said Av-ery Smith, UF Cicerone Tradition Keeper Co-Chair.
“If you start working on UF tra-
ditions now, you’re going to feel more connected,” the 20-year-old said. “The idea is to connect past, present and future Gators all to-gether.”
When freshmen complete their 
traditions early, they get to know campus and create shared experi-
ences, Smith said. These common 
experiences, like eating in the din-ing hall or going to football games, make it easier to connect with oth-er Gators.
Freshmen should get started on 
traditions now, Smith said.
While Rutledge wanted to com-
plete the required 40 traditions, 
he said it was about more than a 
graduation medal.
“I’d really rather do it for the 
experience of being with people rather than the medal,” he said.
Completing traditions with 
friends allowed Carlee Wisniewski, an engineering freshman, know where things were on campus, she said.
“We had a lot of free time the 
last couple of days,” the 18-year-old said. “We just decided to get started.”
Some students think they can 
only log their traditions when they are seniors, Smith said. But stu-dents can start logging their tradi-tions as freshmen.
The tradition keepers log tradi-
tions at the end of the Fall, Spring and Summer semesters, the phi-losophy major said. To prove they participated, students need to bring in a picture or memento of the tra-dition, like a football ticket.
Students will get their keep-
sakes back, though, Smith said.
“They get this nice memento 
book that will serve as a scrapbook for their time at UF,” he said.
In addition to the traditions in 
the “Class of 2019 F Book,” stu-dents also have the opportunity to document a few that are unique to them, Smith said.
He goes to Turlington after 
every home game to watch the marching band and drumline play.  They play after every game, win or lose, Smith said.
Rutledge is also discovering his 
own tradition in the Swamp, even though he’s only been here for a few days.
He said he rushes up and down 
the stairs of his dorm every day.
“That should be a tradition, 
running up and down the stairs,” he said.Freshmen complete 
F Book traditions during first weekSHE HAD CONCERNS ABOUT 
SEPARATION OF POWERS AND 
ELECTION DEBATES.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
All was calm in the senate chambers until 
UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-
Rasines decided to use her executive power to veto two sets of code revisions.
Padron-Rasines vetoed reforms to the 500 
and 700 codes of the Student Body Statute at Tuesday night’s UF Student Senate meeting.
The vetoes were sustained by the Senate, as 
a two-thirds majority to override the decision was not reached.
The 500 codes involve governmental 
boards, commissions and subsidiary organiza-tions, while the 700 codes pertain to SG elec-tions. She vetoed the 500 codes because of a clause regarding the executive committee, which currently consists of the Student Body president, vice president, treasurer and Student Senate president, Student Senate pro tempore and Student Senate budget and appropriations 
committee chairperson.This clause allows for three members of the 
Student Senate to vote twice for members ap-
pointed by the executive branch, once during the nomination process and once during the 
senate approval process.
“The 500 codes as they currently stand vio-
late the separation of powers,” Padron-Rasines 
said.
Majority party leader for the Swamp Party, 
Charlie Brown Jr., disagreed.
“What these 500 codes do is they deliver 
some of the things our leaders have campaigned for – accountability,” he said. “It brings folks to 
the table even when they don’t want to be.”The 700 code reforms would only allow for 
one SG sponsored debate during the Spring 
election cycle. These codes restrict the freedom of speech, Padron-Rasines said.
“I have concluded that putting a single de-
bate on a pedestal dismisses all other debates,” she said.
Opposition said the executive branch wasn’t 
involved in creating the codes.
“During the votes in regards to the 500 and 
700, there were no representatives from the executive committee,” said Ty Robare of the Swamp Party and chairman for the comprehen-
sive statute reform ad hoc committee.Student Body President vetoes two sets of code revisions
ways right over left,” their profiles 
are actually ads, Mereby said.
But not all students knew that.“It was hilarious because her bio and her pictures were really funny, as if she was actually trying to hook up with somebody,” said Aaron Barrera, a music composition and civil engineering sophomore.
According to Tinder advertise-
ment metrics, it’s had successful engagement rates, Mereby said, even though the hashtags haven’t had as much luck on social media.
As for the contest, it’s just a 
matter of getting the word out after the email, she said.
“I thought it was just to start a cool trend around the school or something until I saw an email to-day that it was a contest sponsored by the UAA,” Barrera said.
According to the email, the 
promotion will close Sept. 3 and each winner will receive a pair of sideline passes. In addition, they will get a $25 gift card to the Gator Sportshop.
“I’d love to meet Albert and Al-
berta!” Barany said. “I’m a huge football fan.”
TINDER,  from pg 1Winners will also receive a gift card to the Gator Sportshop“If you start working on UF 
traditions now, you’re going 
to feel more connected”
Avery Smith
UF Cicerone Tradition Keeper 
Co-ChairWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
CAMPUS
By Paola Asencio
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ashish Aggarwal didn’t like waiting for the 
bus, and now he won’t have to.
The 23-year-old is renting a bicycle through 
UF’s new semesterly program, Gator Gears.
The program started Monday, but Aggarwal 
was waiting for several weeks to get his bike.    
As a partnership with the UF Office of Sus-
tainability, Transportation and Parking Ser-
vices and Student Traffic Court,  bicycles are rented out to students on a semesterly basis. Students can pay $40 for one semester, $70 for two or $100 for a year.  
“We want to reduce the number of aban-
doned bikes on campus,” said Jacob Adams, 
office manager of the Office of Sustainability 
who also helps students rent the bikes.  
“It’s a big problem,” he said. “So we want 
bikes that we can reclaim instead of bikes that people maybe buy at Wal-Mart and then aban-don on the racks.” 
About 100 students have already signed up 
for the program, he said.
Philosophy junior Sara Duross waited at the 
bike racks on Plaza of the Americas on Tues-day.  She said she’s looking into renting one of the bikes to make her morning commute shorter.
“I live three miles away from campus, and 
I took the bus this morning,” the 20-year-old said.  “It took me 35 minutes to get here, so I’ve been considering getting a bike.”
The blue bikes are equipped with gears, a 
basket, a helmet and a lock. The program also provides bike maintenance such as fixing flat tires, Adams said.
All bikes are also registered through the 
University Police Department and Gainesville 
Police Department to prevent theft, said Megan 
Walker-Radtke, a program coordinator for the Office of Sustainability.   Adams said the Office of Sustainability wants students to see biking as something convenient to get around campus and the city.
“We also want to encourage people who 
are just getting started in cycling to have a re-ally great experience on a bike and go buy a 
bike on their own,” he said.  “And see it as 
a valuable form of alternative transportation.”UF services partner for new bike-rental program for studentsBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Students can expect to save some 
money on textbooks this Fall. 
Starting this semester, students 
get a 7 percent tax break, along with the option to price match at the Uni-
versity of Florida Bookstore. 
Student Government helped 
lobby for the tax break at the state 
legislature during the June special session, UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines said.
“This lobbying was part of an 
entire effort to make college more af-fordable,” she said.
Follett, the company that operates 
the UF Bookstore, also started price matching as a pilot program at 10 schools last year, Haleigh Morgan, senior external communications spe-cialist for Follett, wrote in an email. 
The program was introduced to 
more than 300 schools, including UF, this Fall, she said.
Students receive a gift card with 
the difference between the price of the book at the UF Bookstore and one from another retailer, like Ama-zon or Chegg, said Robert Blake, the UF Bookstore store director. The gift card does not have an expiration date.
Public relations sophomore 
Brooke Williams said she found out 
about the price-matching program in 
an email from the bookstore.
“They were able to give me a gift 
card of $162,” the 19-year-old said. “I’m just going to use it to buy other textbooks.”
While this is the first time the UF 
Bookstore is matching prices, the Florida Bookstore, located at 1614 W. University Ave., has done price matching in the past. UF political 
science senior Leah Sigillo has been 
price matching her books there since 2013.
She said students would show  
the Florida Bookstore the lower prices they found online, and the store would beat the online price by 10 percent. Students just needed to show the price to cashiers, who 
would manually change it.
“It saves you from having to wait 
and pay shipping fees,” the 19-year-
old said. UF Bookstore offers price match and tax break to students
“W e want to reduce the number of 
abandoned bikes on campus.”
Jacob Adams
Office of Sustainability office managerThere are several outlets for buying textbooks, and the 
decision lies in students’ time constraints and budget. 
Below are price comparisons of renting the same 
textbooks from different retailers.
UF BOOKSTORE CHEGG AMAZON
Campbell Biology 
10th edition, 
hardcover: $149.55
Anthropology: 
Appreciating 
Human Diversity, 
15th edition, 
paperback: $158.06Campbell Biology
 10th edition, 
hardcover: $33.99
Anthropology: 
Appreciating 
Human Diversity, 
15th edition, 
paperback: $27.49Campbell Biology 
10th edition, 
hardcover: $37.03
Anthropology: 
Appreciating 
Human Diversity, 
15th edition, 
paperback: $24.99The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialGet a good night’s 
sleep and put your 
phones down
A professor once told me that young men and women 
are biologically inclined to stay awake late into the night because we’re young, fertile and it’s our bio-
logical imperative to attempt to reproduce. It only 
makes sense that we would stay awake into the wee 
hours for reasons we can’t fully comprehend.
As a caveat, it must be noted that this was an English 
professor, a field that does not require being an expert on teenage hormones and circadian rhythms. I myself am a po-litical science major, so I never really bothered to thorough-ly fact-check this information. But on a surface-level read-ing, it certainly checks out; There’s a reason why Midtown 
is one of the most popular nighttime spots for UF students.
While Midtown isn’t exactly my scene — you’re much 
more likely to find me at the Barcade — I am well versed in 
staying up to ungodly hours. When I was a kid, this meant 
sitting next to my TV to catch “Adult Swim” while my par-
ents were sleeping. As an adult, this means cycling through endless tabs on my iPhone and/or computer, reading up on an artist’s biography with one eye and perusing clickbait Vice articles with the other.
And I’m not the only one. As noted on Brown Univer-
sity’s page on common health issues experienced by college students, we are “among the most sleep-deprived people in the country.” The page cites a 2001 study, noting that “only 
11percent of college students have good sleep quality.”
Given that the study was published in 2001, prior to the 
rise of smartphones, I’d wager to guess that those numbers 
are even more abysmal now. Why, this very column was inspired by my failure to fall asleep until 5 a.m. Monday, as 
I was too “busy” searching for upcoming concerts to treat 
my body with the basic dignity it deserves.
In his thorough article, “Disruptions: For a Restful Night, 
Make Your Smartphone Sleep on the Couch,” Nick Bilton 
of The New York Times compiles no less than three studies 
that all reach the same conclusion: Cell phones are detri-mental to good sleeping habits. In his piece, Bilton inter-views David M. Claman and Orfeu M. Buxton, who both draw a direct correlation between individuals who feel rest-
less before going to sleep and people who use their phones 
in bed.
As grateful as I am for the conveniences provided by 
my phone, I have much trepidation about everything that 
comes with it. I’m sure there will be many more editori-
als about the problems that technology hath wrought, but this particular conundrum has a relatively simple fix: Leave your phone in your living room. The second I have more than $12.36 in my bank account, I’m running out to buy 
the first traditional alarm clock I can find. Call me old-fash-
ioned, but I prefer the unruly tone of two bells ringing to the annoying sound of whatever “Opening” or “By The Sea-
side” is supposed to be.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science senior and the Alligator 
opinions editor. How to fall off the face of the Earth and like it
Ican recall my social media ‘firsts’ as easily as 
I could my major life events: first cryptically spelled Facebook status, first grotesquely fil-tered Instagram, first angsty song lyric quot-ed on Twitter. It becomes almost nostalgic, 
recalling a time when social media was new and each post brought me one step closer to perfect-ing my skillfully crafted online persona. Yet my most profound ‘first’ was when I gave it all up.
Let me start off with a disclaimer that this was 
not self-inflicted or resulted from a stereotypical disillusionment with technology. As any other narcissistic twenty-something, I love social media. How-ever, one of the main requirements to serve as a Panhel-
lenic Counselor — or “Pi Chi” — is to forgo social media 
in an attempt to cut ties with your sorority and serve as an unbiased counselor.
So, for the entire summer of 2015 I (somehow) managed 
to exist without Facebook, Instagram and Twitter while simultaneously learning to embrace my cosmic insignifi-cance. Here’s what I learned and why you should try it.
1. You learn that the world goes on without you: This 
was perhaps the hardest lesson for me to swallow. Whether 
it was a major news story or a distant friend getting en-
gaged, I often didn’t find out about it until weeks after. Countless times I listened to stories with a puzzled look plastered across my face that typically resulted in the re-sponse, “Oh yeah right! I totally forgot you don’t have Facebook!” Coming to terms with my insignificance was an equally humbling and terrifying task.
2. You’re forced to rely on face-to-face first impressions: 
We’ve all done it, meeting someone for the first time in a 
casual setting only to cyber-stalk them so thoroughly you 
know their blood type, social security number and what they ate for breakfast. In an age where the motto “informa-tion is power” reigns supreme, having to rely solely on brief interactions to form an opinion on someone left me feeling equally lazy and powerless. Yet I was surprised by how much more intriguing people seemed when I knew so little about them.
3. You become either mysterious or nonex-
istent: Similarly, I hoped that the mystery sur-rounding everyone I met over the summer would do the same for me. At a time when several of 
my friends were gallivanting around Europe or 
padding their resumes with impressive intern-ships, I was in good ol’ Gainesville. I was taking classes and working, mind you, but my plans for the summer seemed to pale in comparison. Yet, my lack of Internet presence seemed to work in my favor. Was Marisa in Paris? London? New 
York? No one outside my friend group truly knew (or prob-ably cared) but it was exciting nonetheless.
4. You realize good friends don’t need notifications to 
remember you: In late June I turned 20, and instead of a barrage of Facebook posts or Instagram collages, I received around 15 texts or calls. I didn’t miss the generic birthday wishes from people I hadn’t spoken to in years, and I knew that the friends who reached out were keepers. I spent the day eating pizza by the pool with my brother and two best friends, blissfully unburdened by my own irrelevance.
5. You lose the urge to “over share”: I reallocated time 
once spent staring at my phone toward learning how to bake cookies from scratch, figuring out Adobe Illustrator and writing more. Without a constant stream of pointless information interfering, I became much more content with my own achievements and learned how to be present in my daily life. I wasn’t constantly thinking about how to take a perfect picture or word a clever tweet. My own experience was the only validation I needed.
It’s now day 129 of my social media cleanse with only 
two more days to go until I’m technically allowed to reac-tivate my accounts. Both social media and my love-hate relationship with it aren’t going anywhere, but at least I now know that a little time “off the grid” can have a last-ing impact.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.Column
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
The recent “controversy” over 
the recruitment video for the University of Alabama chapter 
of the Alpha Phi sorority was 
bafﬂ  ing. One critic, op-ed writ-
er A.L. Bailey, rightfully derided the video as “so racially and aesthetically 
homogenous and forced, so hyper-
feminine, so reductive and objectify-ing, so...unempowering.” Snapchat provided live coverage of sorority rush week this past weekend, and anyone could read-
ily observe that the problematic behavior criti-
cized in the video is not only expected but is the norm.
I watched the Snapchat feed and was at ﬁ  rst 
bemused by its absurdity; so many thousands of college-age girls, each indistinguishable from the next, jumped around giddily and eventually sobbed at the big reveal. 
But after a few stories, I felt a sense of pity for 
all of these girls. 
They seemed to have traded their authentic 
selves for something else: being the girl in the recruitment video, a façade of beauty and suc-
cess. 
They had been reduced, through the pro-
cesses of commodiﬁ  cation and assimilation, to a 
series of dimensions and price tags. 
As happy and beautiful as they appeared, one 
must admit that they too are victims of an im-personal, coercive system.
The shenanigans of rush week represent a 
whole system that runs counter to and distracts 
from the academic mission of not only UF, but 
all respectable institutions. 
Our school is diverse and comprised of stu-
dents from all walks of life. 
One would never come to this conclusion by 
observing the media and reality of Greek life, which is deﬁ  ned by “keeping up” and attending a stream of social events. 
It is a costly lifestyle, which inadvertently ex-
cludes those who do not originate from privilege or who do not conform to a very speciﬁ  c image.
Diversity and difference should not be 
grounds to create distinction, and, insofar as Greek life capitalizes on extant privilege to cre-
ate more.
It represents a deﬁ  nite obstacle to actualiz-
ing a truly meaningful integration of the student 
body. This all proves to be a fundamental 
distraction to our education and a det-riment to initiatives that strive to cre-
ate an inclusive university that aptly 
prepares us to actively participate in our democratic system.
In light of any consideration of 
merit or personal “worth,” we must remember that those who value us as human beings do not appraise us based on our appearance or material 
possessions, but rather they judge us per the 
measure of our compassion, solidarity with our 
friends and strength of character. 
That is to say, beauty is ﬂ  eeting, but good-
ness endures.  
Furthermore, in our academic context, we are 
judged as students per our ideas and our ability to convey them in a way that promotes an aca-demic exchange that in turn has the potential to improve the world. 
This requires that we be true to ourselves and 
take our studies seriously.
Bearing this in mind, and as we start or re-
sume this marvelous chapter in our lives, we should consider exactly why we have pursued higher education at this excellent university. 
The quest for knowledge can be informed by 
our environments and social surroundings. 
But in the end, our academic pursuits must 
come from within and be motivated by some-thing intrinsic, personal and ultimately individ-
ual. 
Superﬁ  ciality and conformity have no place 
in this pursuit and ultimately constitute an un-
fortunate and omnipresent distraction.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF lin-
guistics master’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays.  Rush Week: A Problematic DistractionColumn
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgHappy Hump Day fellow Gators!
We are halfway through 
our ﬁ  rst week back to school, which means that 
there is no denying it anymore: The Fall semester has ofﬁ  cially begun. 
This week marks a new beginning 
for many of us. Freshmen are learn-ing how to navigate Tur-lington Plaza, seniors are swallowing disbelief that 
it’s their last ﬁ  rst semes-
ter in college. Personally, I’m just trying to ﬁ  gure out where I can ﬁ  t a nap 
into my busy schedule. 
One must never underes-timate the importance of a midday shut-eye. Getting out of bed may have been a struggle this morn-
ing, but at least I didn’t wake up 
thinking we were still on vacation.
Despite nostalgia for lazy sum-
mer days, there’s something com-
forting about realizing that it’s go 
time. In just a few short weeks, we will all be settled into our daily col-lege lives again, hopefully without too much hassle or heartbreak.
For all of my fellow third-years 
out there, this is it! This is the year where we have to make it or break it. Junior year is full of action verbs. 
Careers are pursued, MCATs and 
LSATs are taken, all sorts of big de-cisions are made. It’s time to hit the ground running.
The new school year also means 
new resolutions, pledges to do things differently than last year, so we can all feel better about our-selves as students. Will they last? 
Probably not. I do this every semes-
ter, but after much denial I’ve come to know myself well enough to real-ize most of these declarations will not ring true a month from now. No, 
I will not overload my schedule this 
year, convinced I can manipulate the laws of time and space to my ad-vantage (an unlikely scenario). Yes, I will go to bed at a decent time this 
semester, or at least get a full eight 
hours of sleep on the regular (even more unlikely). Lastly, no, I will not have more than one cup of coffee 
per day (perhaps the most unlikely 
of all, not to mention it’s a drain on 
my wallet).  
The thing is, I don’t 
even care that most of 
these promises will be 
broken within the ﬁ  rst two weeks of school. In the end, it’s not the ac-
tual resolutions that help 
me adjust to school, but rather it’s the extra kick 
of conﬁ  dence they give at the be-ginning of the year, the comforting 
familiarity of having goals which 
propels us forward into college feel-ing bright-eyed and bushy-tailed. My advice to you halfway through 
our ﬁ  rst week? Make some goals! If 
they don’t last, don’t sweat it. Stock up on self-conﬁ  dence now, because when midterms come we’ll all need our reserves of extra positivity.
I’m super excited to be coming 
back this semester as a columnist, and I can’t wait for what the future will bring in this corner of the Al-
ligator. I write about women’s and 
LGBTQ rights issues, campus hap-penings and anything else that catches my fancy during the week. If you’ve got something you think I 
should talk about, feel free to email 
me through the Alligator opinions section. Let’s get through this week, and see what the rest of Fall 2015 
will bring. I’ve got a full schedule, 
a large iced coffee and a sense of boundless optimism. What could go wrong?
    Sally Greider is a UF English 
and public relations junior. Her column appears on Wednesdays.Start of school year means new 
resolutions, new introductions Column
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
“As happy and beautiful 
as they appeared, one 
must admit that they 
too are victims of an 
impersonal, coercive 
system."”8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015
Welcome back to 
the Gator Nation   
Photos by Nicole Gomez 
and Danielle Veenstra 
TOP LEFT:
Vanna Lutz (left), 19, and Hanan 
Schwefel, 46, serve Kafta Subji during Krishna lunch to a student on Plaza of the Americas Tuesday. Schwefel has been serving Krish-na lunch for about 14 years, while Lutz started Monday.
BOTTOM LEFT:
Roosevelt Watts III hands out Gator Greenbacks coupon books near the Hub on Tuesday. “I be-lieve in all of you!” he shouted to passing students. “You’re going to do well in class. You can do anything you put your mind to, except for telekinesis. ”
TOP RIGHT:
Students swarm Turlington Plaza as period 4 classes let out Tues-day.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Meagan Roach, a 20-year-old UF sociology junior, prepares to punt a Chuckit! dog toy for Sony, a golden retriever and lab mix, on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday. Sony was trained as a Canine Companion for Indepen-dence assistance dog, but she found a home outside of the pro-gram because she could not get her certification.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DONT LIVE AT THE WRONG PLACE
Countryside at the University
4000 SW 23rd St.
4BR/4BA. Excellence for student achieve -
ment at UF. Individual lease. $395.
Call for details Bristol Park Realty
Phone 352-367-2669 or 
bristolparkmanagement.com
All applications in person
rich@bristolparkrealty.com
8-28-15-11-1
1 bd in 2/1 w/ a female student. Studious atmosphere. $475/mo includes high speed internet & electric. $300 dep. Bus lines 34, 35, 36, 38. 325-631-0737    9-3-15-7-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
5 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
8-31-15-8-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor in LR. Like 
new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $675/mo. Call Joe 727-423-9463    8-28-15-6-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 
1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call 
Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1ST1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   8-28-15-7-2
2 fem roommates wanted for 3 bedroom spacious, house. Shaded fenced backyard, wood floors, screened living porch. Washer/Dryer. 6 blocks from campus/from "Swamp/UF Plaza, NW 6th Ave. $490/m + Utl. Call/Text: 607 351 8655     9-1-15-5-4
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
For sale: HIGH VISABILITY motorcycle rid-ing JACKET, large, greenish-yellow with high visability BACKPACK - same color. Paid $262 for both - will sell for half-price at $130 together. Don 352-328-0764    9-1-5-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified10 For Sale 1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 3 Subleases 5 Real EstateWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the fall semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14Gestational Surrogate Needed
to carry our embryo, no egg or sperm dona -
tion required. 1 yr living expenses covered. 
Text for additional information 305-582-9800    
8-28-15-24-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
HOME/OFFICE/APARTMENT CLEANER NEEDED if interested please call 352-214-0868..MUST own a reliable car, pass a back-ground, drug ,and reference check. Paying $8/hr and weekly pay..    8-27-15-5-14
Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.    9-4-15-10-14
PT sales assoc. wanted Flex days & hrs. Retail exp. a + Great cust. service skills req- we'll teach the rest. If hard working & want a fun work env. email res. scrubsbydesign@gmail.com  8-26-3-14
CHOCOLATE CONSULTANTSee www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job description. e-mail resume and weekly/year-round availability to info@thornebrookchoco -
lates.com.    9-4-15-10-14
Designated drivers are the greatestACROSS
1 Moments, briefly
5 God with a bow
9 Like some
elephants
14 Jai __
15 “Game over,” to
Kasparov
16 Forrest’s shrimp-
loving friend
17 Make fun of
boxing gear?
19 Lusitania sinker
20 StyleBistro and
Slate
21 “Into the Woods”
(2014) director
Marshall
23 Schlep
24 Arles article25 Make fun of
Harleys?
27 “Gigi” novelist30 Barcelona-born
muralist
31 MouthHealthy.org
org.
32 Line from the sun34 Ristorante
desserts
38 Make fun of
sweater styles?
42 Came afterward
43 Roller in Vegas44 Low digit45 Lively dance47 Adopt, as a
cause
50 Make fun of
tunes?
54 Ga. neighbor
55 Numbered
musical piece
56 Colorado native57 Human rights
advocate
Sakharov
60 “¿Cómo __?”
62 Make fun of
Porky and
Petunia?
64 Requests for
Friskies, maybe
65 Half of zwei
66 Rules, to GIs67 Proverbial reason
for a break?
68 Schedule
opening
69 Bone, in Rome
DOWN
1 Benefit
2 16th/17th-century
Eng. queen
3 Eldorados, e.g.4 One of the
Declaration of
Independence’s56
5 “Famous” cookie
guy
6 Big D cager7 “SNL” alumna
Cheri
8 Patches, as a
lawn
9 __ Dhabi
10 Foreign film
feature
11 Discontinued
Apple laptop
12 Let up13 Archibald and
Thurmond of theNBA
18 For fear that22 “Saturday 
Night Fever”group
25 Raise26 Machine gun
partly named forthe Czech city inwhich it wasdesigned
27 Showed up28 Take too much
of, for short
29 “Doonesbury”
creator
33 Pay stub abbr.35 Insurance risk
assessors
36 Ring stats
37 “Understood”39 “Rashomon”
director
40 Many a
“Divergent” reader
41 “It’s all false!”46 Petrol measures48 Huff and puff49 One who knows
the ropes
50 Sonnets, say51 Unexpected
victory
52 Sylvan Learning
employee
53 Work on, as a
stubborn squeak
57 No. 258 Frittata
ingredients
59 “That __ last
week!”
61 Sacramento-to-
San Jose dir.
63 365 días
By David Poole©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/26/1508/26/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, August 26, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E University Ave. Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office @ 955-7766
9-4-15-10-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Help Wanted Sales AssistantNeed ambitious, presentable, and well orga-nized person for growing business. Automobile and customer service experience a plus. Send apps/questions to jobs@tomlinsonmotorco.com     9-4-15-10-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
Homework coach wanted for bright but dis-organized 8th grade girl. $10 per hour plus mileage for 4-6 hours per week. Flexible hours. Email qualifications to maddy56@ufl.edu.    8-28-5-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,Entry LevelPaid TrainingAccess To Reliable Transportation AndCommunicationRGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/Disabled 
$8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com     
8-28-15-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
Joanna Barousse's Music StudioPiano and voice lessons.
jobarousse@gmail.com     8-26-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Sherlockians
interested in joining with others so inclined 
in a new, online scion society, please send 
email ASAP to ceb221b@gmail.com.    9-1-
15-15-19
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.RED'S TAVERN 2 Year Anniversary Aug. 29 Su/Mo.-Free Pool, Tu.-Bike Night, Wed.-Ladies Night/Karaoke Th.-Men's Night, Fr.-Karaoke, Sa.-Open Mike Su.-$1 PBR Drafts Get 1 free House draft w/ Student ID. HWY 27 Ft White 352-339-6978           8-28-10-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
1. GEOGRAPHY: Guadalcanal is 
part of which island group in the Pacif-
ic Ocean?
2. TELEVISION: What was 
Norm’s last name in the sitcom series “Cheers”?
3. MOVIES: Which actors voiced 
the two main characters, Woody and Buzz, in the “Toy Story” movies?
4. ARTS: What country holds a festi-
val of music, literature and performing arts called an eisteddfod?
5. INVENTIONS: Who is credited 
with inventing the Hula Hoop?
6. HISTORY: Who was known as 
“The Iron Chancellor”?
7. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What kind 
of creature does the Australian bandi-coot most resemble?
8. RADIO: When did the soap opera 
“The Guiding Light” begin as a serial show on radio? 
9. MEASUREMENTS: The term 
“vicennial” refers to a period of how many years?
10. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the symbol for the zodiac sign Capricorn?
Answers
1. Solomon Islands2. Peterson3. Tom Hanks and Tim Allen4. Wales
5. Richard Knerr and Arthur “Spud” 
Melin
6. Otto von Bismarck, Germany
7. A large rat8. 1937 9. 20 years10. The goat
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 24, 2015 King Features Weekly Service19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
Headline
Story description Pg#WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida coach Jim McElwain 
said Tuesday the Gators will ofﬁ  cially conclude Fall football camp on Friday. By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
The vaunted Florida secondary is 
known as arguably the most talented de-
fensive backﬁ  eld in the country.
However, another area of UF’s defense 
— the pass rush — is in the process of a complete overhaul.
Florida coach Jim McElwain said Tues-
day the key for the defensive linemen and blitzing linebackers is to create pressure up front to force the opponent’s offense into critical turnovers.
“We need to be able to pressure the 
passer, obviously,” McElwain said. “We need to create havoc up front, and the key there is to create negative plays for the of-fense.”
Last season, led by former Florida stand-
out Dante Fowler, Jr., the Gators combined for 30 sacks while allowing just 16.
This season, however, the loss of Fowl-
er combined with an inexperienced of-
fensive line could result in Florida taking 
more sacks than the team dishes out.
But McElwain said he’s been impressed 
with the way the freshmen offensive line-men, speciﬁ  cally highly regarded Apopka 
native Martez Ivey, have progressed in 
their transition to the college game.
“I’m real proud of those young offen-
sive linemen, just the way they’ve come in,” McElwain said. 
“They don’t look out of place. They’re 
grasping it, they’re playing hard.”
Ivey gaining experience:  Martez Ivey arrived in Gainesville as the most her-
alded freshman offensive lineman in the 
country. 
But McElwain said Ivey doesn’t look like a freshman due to the way he carries 
himself in the locker room and on the ﬁ  eld.
“He’s done a really good job,” McEl-
Follow us for updates
Follow us on Twitter at
@alligatorsports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsfor updates on UF athletics.Five Gators named to Preseason All-SEC Teams
Junior defensive back Vernon Hargreaves was chosen as a First-T eam 
All-Southeastern Conference selection. Seniors Jon Bullard and Antonio Morrison were included on the second-team defense. Juniors Demarcus Robinson and Kelvin T aylor were included on the third-team offense. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida head coach Jim McElwain walks on the ﬁ  eld during Spring practice on April 6 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. McElwain said 
Tuesday he's been impressed with the team's freshmen offensive linemen. 
THE EVENT WAS 
PREVIOUSL Y CALLED 
MIDNGHT MADNESS. 
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
For the ﬁ  rst time in nearly a 
decade, Midnight Madness will 
make its return to the O’Connell 
Center — albeit with a name 
change. 
The Florida men’s and wom-
en’s basketball teams will host 
Gators Madness on Oct. 2 at 9 
p.m., giving the public its ﬁ  rst glimpse of coach Mike White’s inaugural Florida men’s basket-ball team.Events similar to Gators Mad-
ness are held across the coun-
try to signal the start of basket-
ball season for 
NCAA Division 
I programs.
The Gators 
last held Mid-night Madness in 2006 follow-ing Florida’s 
ﬁ  rst-ever men’s 
basketball national champion-
ship. 
Under former coach Billy 
Donovan, Florida replaced the event in 2007 with an open scrimmage, but that was a one-off occurrence.
Preseason events have been few and far between ever since, although Donovan held open 
events for UF students in the 
weeks leading up to the season.
The men’s basketball team is 
coming off a disappointing 16-17 
season that saw the Gators miss 
a postseason tournament for the ﬁ  rst time in 18 years.
With coach Amanda Butler 
entering her 10th season as head 
coach, the UF women’s team will 
return the bulk of its rotation. 
After losing redshirt senior 
Kayla Lewis to graduation in 
May, the Gators will rely on ﬁ  ve 
players entering their ﬁ  nal sea-son of eligibility and the return of Ronni Williams, who led the team in scoring last season. UF announces Gators Madness
White
JUST SOME HACK
When Florida announced on Friday 
that it had 
suspended 
three players for the season opener, there 
wasn’t much cause for 
concern.
Sure, it’s always 
slightly embarrassing for a program whenever it has to suspend players 
or take any disciplinary action, but 
for one game against New Mexico State, it won’t matter in the long haul.
It will matter, however, for 
Latroy Pittman.Of the three players 
suspended, the senior wide receiver has by 
far the most to lose.
Redshirt junior 
safety Marcus Maye, a 
player who has proven 
to be a reliable last line 
of defense over the past two seasons, will 
be reinserted into the starting line-up immediately when he returns.
The same can be said for red-
shirt junior defensive end Alex Mc-Calister, who is expected by many to ﬁ  ll the void left by former Gator 
Dante Fowler Jr. as the team’s most Pittman wasting opportunity
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack24
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15Florida defense focusing on creating havoc with pass rush
“I’m real proud of those young ofensive 
linemen, just the way they’ve come in. 
They don’t look out of place. They’re 
grasping it, they’re playing hard.”
Jim McElwain
UF coach14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015
TORRES TELLS IT
While most people in the U.S. are 
patiently awaiting the start of both college football and the NFL 
season, there’s another type of 
“football” currently being played 
around the world.
And that, my friends, is futbol — also 
known as soccer in this country — so here’s some of the leagues you should be paying at-tention to, even with American football start-ing up soon.  
1. Barclays Premier League
Widely considered the best league in the 
world, the BPL began its season on Aug. 8 and is heading into its fourth week on Satur-
day. If you’re not too familiar with the BPL, 
there are 20 teams in the league all trying to accumulate the most points by the end of the season to be crowned champions. 
To keep things fresh each year, the three 
teams that end up with the least amount of points are relegated to the second tier in Eng-lish soccer — “The Championship” — while  three teams from the second tier are promot-
ed to the BPL the following season. 
Through three weeks of games, Manches-
ter City is currently at the top of the table 
with nine points, while world-renowned 
power and inner-city rival Manchester United 
are two points behind and sit in third place. 
Defending champions Chelsea have four 
points and are in ninth place while South-ampton (two points), Sunderland (two 
points) and West Bromwich Albion (one 
point) all sit at the bottom of the table. 
If teams have the same amount of points 
at the end of the season, goal differential is 
used as the tiebreaker. 
There are still 35 games left in the season 
and the table now could look a lot different 
when the champion is crowned at the end. 
City, United, Chelsea, Liverpool, Totten-
ham and Arsenal are all teams that could be lifting the trophy in May.                
2. The Bundesliga
The top-ﬂ  ight German league 
is two weeks in and there are fa-miliar names at the top of the ta-
ble. Borussia Dortmund, Bayern 
Munich and Bayer Leverkusen pace the 18-team league through two games. 
Unlike the Premier League, 
however, only 34 games are played during the season and the competition isn’t as ﬁ  erce throughout all the teams. 
Bayern Munich has won the last three 
titles and is the favorite to win its fourth con-secutive title this year. 
Depending on how the transfer win-
dow plays out, Dortmund, VfL Wolfsburg and Leverkusen could pres-ent a challenge to Bayern. The Bundesliga continues on Friday with each team playing its third game through the weekend.
3. La Liga
The top league in Spain, La 
Liga has the distinction of hav-ing the two best players in the 
world in Barcelona’s Lionel Mes-
si and Real Madrid’s Cristiano Ronaldo. 
Those two teams also are involved in one 
of the best soccer rivalries in the world as it’s commonly known as “El Clasico.” 
In the past, Barcelona and Real Ma-
drid have been the two teams consistently 
competing to be champions at the end, but a third team has entered the fray the past couple of years in Atletico Madrid. 
Barcelona won the 2014-15 UEFA Cham-
pions League — European football’s most coveted title — and are the favorite to win 
La Liga this season. 
Real Madrid and Atletico Madrid will try 
to spoil Barcelona’s hopes of repeating as 
champions of the league. 
La Liga ﬁ  nished its ﬁ  rst match day last 
weekend and the second week of play begins on Friday.
4. The MLS
Unlikely the three previously mentioned 
leagues, America’s biggest soccer league is currently in the middle of its regular season. 
The MLS began its season back in March 
and to generate more excitement for the fans of the league, teams are split up into two conferences — East and West — with the top 
six teams from each conference making the 
playoffs as they vie for the MLS Cup. 
The winner of the MLS Cup is decided in 
elimination tournament style that is fairly similar to the NFL playoffs. Currently, D.C. 
United leads the Eastern Conference with 
44 points with the New York Red Bulls ﬁ  ve points behind. 
Columbus Crew SC is six points behind 
with Toronto FC, the New England Revolu-tion and Montreal Impact rounding out the East. 
In the Western Conference, the LA Galaxy 
leads the entire league with 46 points with 
the Vancouver Whitecaps just one point be-
hind them. 
Sporting Kansas City and the Portland 
Timbers have 40 points apiece, while FC Dal-
las and the Seattle Sounders are in ﬁ  fth and 
sixth place respectively. 
The Galaxy have won the most MLS Cups, 
ﬁ  ve, since the playoffs started back in 1995. LA, along with D.C. United, the Red Bulls 
and Vancouver are four of the teams with the 
best chance to hoist the cup in December.      Need your football ﬁ  x? Here are some futbol leagues you should be following
LA HOSTED THE 
OL YMPICS IN 1932 AND 
1984. 
The Associated Press
Anxiety over taxpayer costs 
helped cripple Boston’s 2024 Olym-
pic bid, but organizers in potential stand-in Los Angeles projected Tues-day that they could stage events from Santa Monica Beach to the Hol-lywood Hills and bank a $161 mil-lion surplus.
Los Angeles, which hosted the 
1932 and 1984 Olympics, is viewed as the likely replacement for Bos-ton’s failed bid because the city’s many existing venues could help keep costs low.
The Los Angeles plan projects 
spending $4.1 billion; Boston’s oper-ating budget was about $4.6 billion, but billions more could have been needed for construction, security and other costs.
The Los Angeles ﬁ  gures provided 
the most detailed look to date on estimated expenses to run the 2024 Games in California. According to the documents, the bulk of the fund-ing would come from broadcast rev-enue, sponsorships and ticket sales.
“In Los Angeles, the spotlight is 
always on. We have the resources, experience and secure environment to share the biggest events with the world,” the proposal states.
The Los Angeles City Council is 
expected to vote Friday on a propos-al giving Mayor Eric Garcetti author-ity to execute agreements linked to the city’s bid.
Over the years Olympics have 
been notorious for cost overruns, and studies have questioned if host cities beneﬁ  t economically. Russia has been struggling with costs from the 2014 Sochi Olympics, which have been called the most expensive Olympics of all time.
Under the plan, the Los Angeles 
Memorial Coliseum would get an $800 million makeover focused on seating upgrades and premium ame-nities. 
The University of Southern 
California, which plays its football games at the Coliseum, would invest $500 million for the renovation, the plan states. Los Angeles projects $161 million surplus for OlympicsAP Photo
Everton's T om Cleverley, right, ﬁ  ghts for the ball against Manchester City's David Silva at Goodison Park Stadium in Liverpool, England, on Sunday. 
AP Photo
In this August 1984 ﬁ  le photo, competitors run in the men's 5,000 meters at the Olympic Games in Los Angeles. U.S. Olympic Committee CEO Scott Blackmun is optimistic the committee could work out a plan to make Los Angeles the U.S. bidder for the 2024 Summer Olympic Games. 
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIIIwain said. 
“He’s a guy obviously that 
you don’t think of him really as a 
freshman right now, just the way 
he’s playing. We kind of thought that when we recruited him. Sure enough that’s kind of how it’s 
been.”
However, Ivey isn’t the only 
freshman offensive lineman who 
has been impressive in Fall camp.
Redshirt sophomore defensive 
lineman Caleb Brantley said two freshmen aside from Ivey have impressed him.
“I like Tyler Jordan and T.J. 
McCoy a lot,” Brantley said. “I think they’re going to be really good inside-wise.
“What about Tyler Jordan im-
presses me is that he wants to get 
better every day. He doesn’t come 
to the locker room and complain about practice. He comes in and he’s ready to learn because he 
wants to play. He’s very coach-
able.”
Brantley said he’s been im-
pressed by McCoy’s “effort” and the freshmen will only continue 
to improve by facing UF's “nasty” 
defensive line in practice.Neal recovering:  Junior 
safety Keanu Neal went down in Friday’s scrimmage with a leg 
injury that hasn’t healed to the level McElwain is satisfied with.
While the coach was typically 
vague when asked about Neal’s 
progress, McElwain said the Gators have asked senior Brian Poole to step up as a backup safe-
ty with the unit’s depth in ques-
tion.“Poole I guess as a freshman 
played back there a little bit as a 
backup safety,” McElwain said. 
“At the safety spot, we just 
felt, especially with as much 
spread stuff as we’re going to 
see. We’re going to have to play 
a lot more defensive backs prob-ably, especially in the first couple games just looking at what we’re going to face.”
The Gators are appreciative of 
having a player like Poole who can play multiple positions in the secondary. 
Sophomore safety Duke Daw-
son said Poole is one of the lead-ers in the secondary due to his experience and knowledge.
“Poole knows a lot about the 
defense because this is his fourth year,” Dawson said.
The Cross City native added 
he’s prepared to step up due to 
Neal’s injury and redshirt junior 
Marcus Maye’s one-game suspen-sion.
“It’s a big role,” Dawson said. “I know those two guys are 
great players. I learned from those two. Coming from corner to safety, they really took me in, so I really appreciate the things that 
those guys have done.”WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
FOOTBALL,  from pg 13Dawson could see an increased workload with Neal injured 
lethal pass rusher.
But Pittman has no such guarantee.
Despite playing in all 12 games last season 
and starting nine of them, the Ocala native only managed to catch a meager 15 passes for 164 yards, and he barely played at all during 
his freshman and sophomore campaigns.
Even before the suspension, there was no 
assurance that he would start or play a signifi-
cant amount in 2015.But there was a decent chance.Other than junior Demarcus Robinson, the 
wide receiver position is an unknown for the Gators heading into the season, and with that uncertainty comes opportunity.
With a new offense and a lack of proven wideouts to compete with, Pittman has noth-ing to stop him from separating himself from 
the pack and establishing himself as one of 
the top options in the passing game.
But now, he has to put that on hold for a 
week. That might not sound like a big deal, 
but it is.
“(I’ve) never been one of those and never 
will be to worry about who’s not there,” head 
coach Jim McElwain said about the suspen-sions after the team’s Friday night scrimmage. 
“(It) gives some guys an opportunity to 
step up and make some plays and help us down the road.”
In other words, while Pittman is on the 
sideline against New Mexico State, other players will be getting the chance to show-case themselves and prove that they deserve a spot on the field — the spot Pittman wants.
Maybe junior Ahmad Fulwood makes a 
few big plays and catches a touchdown or two.
Maybe freshman Antonio Callaway flashes 
some speed and turns a couple screen passes 
into 30 and 40 yard gains.
Maybe Pittman would have done the 
same. 
But the others will get the chance to do 
it first, and if they perform well, the coaches will continue to give them more opportunities 
than someone who hasn’t yet proven he can do it.
Even when Pittman does get his chance to 
play, he will already be a game behind ev-eryone else in terms of getting in sync with whomever is behind center.
This isn’t to say the senior can’t have a 
great season, or that he can’t still become one 
of Florida’s top receivers — he can and he 
very well might.
But he’s behind the eight ball now, and 
he’ll have to work that much harder to gain 
the trust of his coaches and prove that he de-
serves to be a major contributor this season.COLUMN,  from pg 13Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Brian Poole runs to make a catch during Spring practice on March 16 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
McElwain said Poole will practice at safety due to depth concerns. 
Alligator File Photo
Wide receiver Latroy Pittman speaks to the media during UF's Media Day on Aug. 5 at T ouchdown T errace in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Pittman is one of three players suspended for the season opener against New Mexico State on Sept. 5. 
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 2015
