We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 131 FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015
UF softball continues homestand 
with series against South Carolina
The ﬁ  rst game is tonight at 6, pg 16.
A Story of Survival: Sexual assault is never your fault and other lessons learned
Read Robyn Smith’s column, pg 7.
One of UF’s oldest buildings to get A/C
The 109-year old Thomas Hall will get it in Fall, pg 3.Warriors Take Runway
See the photostory on the Pride Awareness 
Month’s annual fashion show , pg 9.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Light It Blue
In this long-exposure photograph, blue lights illuminate Century T ower in 
honor of Autism Awareness Day on Thursday night. Organized by student organization Impact Autism, the event was meant to show the UF commu-nity’s commitment to autism research and treatment.
ADMINISTRATION
By Cyanne Dunn and 
Zee Krstic
Alligator Writers
cdunne@alligator.org
At a UF Board of Trustees 
committee meeting Thursday, members unanimously ap-proved tenure for new hires 
and a raise in the cost of stu-
dent living.
Members unanimously ap-
proved a 3.5-percent raise in 
the cost of student housing at 
the Committee on Educational 
Policy and Strategy. 
The new rates will affect 
undergraduate, graduate and 
family housing. Rates at Ma-guire Village, however, are in-creasing between 7 and about 9 percent.
The property used to be-
long to the U.S. Department 
of Housing and 
Urban Develop-ment and was 
built for low-
income hous-
ing, said Norbert 
Dunkel, associate vice presi-dent for student affairs and 
director of housing and resi-
dence education.
“When we paid off the 
loan in September 2012, we worked with the graduate stu-
dents, and they agreed to in-crease their rent over a three-
year-period,” Dunkel said.
This increase is the last of 
the three and will bring it to the same cost as University 
Village South, another gradu-ate student resi-
dence hall. The 
new rates will 
take effect in the 
Fall, Dunkel said.
The members also ap-
proved tenure for 12 new fac-
ulty members, pending their 
ofﬁ  cial hiring.
Four of the new faculty 
members would be in the Board of Trustees: cost of 
student living to increase
By Carla Vianna
Alligator Staff Writer
cvianna@alligator.org
UF students will soon be able to check how long the Star-
bucks line is at Library West without leaving their seats.
Both Library West and Marston Science Library are planning 
to feature live camera feeds on their websites, similar to the 
live feeds used at the Southwest Recreation Center and Student 
Recreation & Fitness Center.
Patrick Reakes, associate dean for Scholarly Resources and 
Services, said it made sense to include this feature as the librar-ies gain additional security cameras in the next month or so.
About 50 high-resolution cameras are to be installed between 
both libraries — a $79,000 collaborative effort in-
volving University Police, the chief operating of-ﬁ  cer’s ofﬁ  ce, business affairs and both libraries, said Peter Miller, facilities planning coordinator.
UF Student Government fueled the idea, 
Reakes said.
UF Student Body President Cory Yeffet said one of the con-
sistent requests he heard from students during his campaign was to have capacity counters in the libraries.
“There were several things people were looking for: enhanc-ing security, capacity counters and cameras to be able to see how long the line was at Starbucks before heading down there 
and being disappointed by a 30-minute line,” Yef-fet said.
With this new feature, students can check 
how packed either library is and plan accordingly, Reakes said.
The live videos will be low resolution to avoid 
privacy concerns, Reakes said. This way a student won’t be able to identify faces, but rather get a feel for how busy the li-brary may be. Ofﬁ  cials have not yet determined where students will be able to view the footage. New cameras in UF libraries will show lines for StarbucksMEN ASSOCIATED WITH KKK 
REPORTEDL Y PLANNED TO KILL  
FORMER INMATE.
By Emily Cochrane
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
The FBI arrested two Florida state corrections 
ofﬁ  cers and one former ofﬁ  cer Thursday morning after the three men reportedly conspired to kill a released inmate.
Thomas Driver, 25, David Moran, 47, and 
Charles Newcomb, 42 — all of whom reportedly belong to the Traditionalist American Knights sec-tor of the Ku Klux Klan — began conspiring in late 2014, Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi said, after Driver got into a ﬁ  ght with the inmate in August 2013.
A conﬁ  dential FBI source within the KKK 
sector attended a Klan meeting where the men discussed how they wanted the inmate “six feet under,” according to redacted court afﬁ  davits. Newcomb presides over the KKK chapter as “Ex-
alted Cyclops.”
With the inmate now released, the three men 
staked out his home in Palatka, Florida, and dis-
cussed murdering him with shots of insulin, ac-cording to the afﬁ  davits. 
Referring to the inmate with racial slurs, New-
comb suggested posing him with a ﬁ  shing pole, pushing him in the water and making it look like he drowned while ﬁ  shing. Newcomb also said, “If we have to do pow-pow, we will,” referring to FBI arrests Fla. DOC oﬃ   cersSEE BOT,  PAGE 4
SEE FBI, PAGE 4CAMPUS
CAMPUSSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 131
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights
Join GatorNights and the Inter-
Residence Hall Association for a Carnival Hoedown Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. Enjoy the IRHA-opoly Carnival on the North Lawn with free carnival rides. In the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, hear live country mu-sic from Austin Moody and make leather bracelets, do-it-yourself 
Mason jars and cowboy hats, 
square dancing lessons and free food and root beer floats. See “The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies” at 8 and 10:45 p.m. in the Auditorium. It ends in a Cotton-Eyed-Joe dance party and a free nacho/taco bar at Midnight Munchies. It’s free with a Gator 1 Card.
Time Warp 80s Night: “The 
Princess Bride” at the Hippodrome CinemaJoin the Hippodrome State Theatre Saturday at 10 p.m. for a special presentation of “The Princess Bride.” Enjoy themed drink specials as patrons watch the fairy tale romantic com-edy of Princess Buttercup and Westley unfold. Admission is $12 and seating is limited. The Hippodrome is located at 25 SE Second Place. For a complete list-ing of films and additional show-times, please visit thehipp.org
Second annual Three-Minute 
Thesis competitionThe UF Graduate School and the Graduate Student Advisory Council are excited to an-nounce the second annual UF Three-Minute Thesis Finals Competition, which will take place Tuesday at 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Ten UF finalists across multiple disci-plines will explain their research in three minutes or less with one static PowerPoint slide. The judges will award a first- and second-place prize, and attendees get to vote for their favorite in the People’s Choice Award. Go out 
and support graduate students. 
Refreshments will be provided.
Edible Book Contest
The George A. Smathers Libraries’ 
annual Edible Book Contest 
will take place Tuesday from 11 
a.m. to noon in front of Library West. Prizes are awarded in five categories by a panel of judges, 
and the public is invited to vote 
for the People’s Choice Award. 
Winners will be announced at 12:15 p.m., and entrants do not have to be present to win. Free 
cake is served to everyone. UF 
students, faculty and staff, and 
community members are invited to submit an entry. The only rules are that entries must be edible 
and somehow related to a book. 
For more information, see uflib.
ufl.edu/ebc.
Curious about a degree from the 
College of Education?The College of Education will be hosting its annual Education Career Night Panel on Wednesday in the Reitz Union Auditorium from 4 to 5 p.m. The first 25 at-tendees will receive a tote bag or T-shirt. Doors open at 3:30 p.m. This event is open to all.  The event consists of a panel of four UF College of Education alumni who will talk about the distinctly different career paths they each have followed after earning their education degrees.  This event offers a great opportunity to net-work with education profession-als from around Florida. For more information, visit education.ufl.
edu/alumni/career-night
BugFest 2015: It's a Jungle out 
There
Check out the Entomology Club's 
annual BugFest open house 
on April 11 from 2 to 5 p.m. at 
Steinmetz Hall behind the UF Lacrosse facility. We'll have buggy games, insect cooking, and informative insect talks. You'll also have the chance to talk with 
representatives from various agri-
cultural clubs on campus. 
Circus cats
The Amazing Acro-Cats are a 
troupe of real, rescued house cats 
that “purrform” acrobatic feats 
of agility: They roll on balls, bal-ance on beams, ride skateboards and more. The grand finale is the 
only all-cat band known to ex-
ist — Tuna and the Rock Cats. 
“Purrforming” at the Hippodrome State Theatre April 16 through April 19. More information can 
be found at circuscats.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to kwiggins@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. 
CORRECTION
A story published Thursday un-der the headline "Caravan of Thieves to perform at historic Thomas Center," the Alligator incorrectly reported the time of the concert. The doors open at 6:30 p.m., and the concert starts at 7:30 p.m. Also, the story stated that tickets can be purchased in advance for $15. This price ap-plies only at the door.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffDon’t Trip
Tiana Alderson (left), a 26-year-old UF graduate student in the School of Theatre + Dance, laughs as Dalton 
Hamilton, a 20-year-old UF theatre production sophomore, tries to jump over a swinging log at the Inter-Resi-dence Hall Association’s Grillfest event on the North Lawn on Thursday. The event was a part of Residence Hall Week, which concludes today with Carnival on the Reitz Union Breezeway at 8 p.m.
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
Amid the hustle and bustle of beeping cars squeezing 
past one another on West University Avenue stands one of 
UF’s ﬁ  rst buildings, Thomas Hall, virtually unchanged since 1906.
But this Fall, Thomas Hall will take one step closer to the 
21st century with its ﬁ  rst air conditioning units.
Jen Gresley, the Murphree Area coordinator, said the 
windows in the dorm rooms were recently replaced to pre-pare for the units. 
The UF Board of Governors has not ﬁ  nalized Fall prices 
for Thomas Hall yet. Its sister dorm, Buckman Hall, has had air conditioning since Fall, and it was more expensive than Thomas Hall this academic year.
For some UF students, the cheaper price made the dorm 
a more attractive option.
“It’s never been an issue (to not have air conditioning),” 
said Rebecca Fedderwitz, a UF materials science and engi-neering sophomore who lives in Thomas Hall.
The 20-year-old said she loves the hall.“Everything inside is a little more homey,” Fedderwitz 
said, comparing it with other dorms.
While newer dorms on campus, like Jennings Hall and 
Beaty Towers, boast air-conditioned units, Fedderwitz said she would rather live without the amenity.  She said that unlike some residence halls, Thomas gives residents the freedom to open their windows, which look out to shady sidewalks and iron benches.
At Preview, Fedderwitz said she stayed in Jennings Hall, 
which was built in 1961.  It wasn’t as welcoming as Thomas.
“The rooms were just cold and ugly,” she said of Jen-
nings Hall.
On Thursday, when it was 82 degrees out and only a few 
clouds dotted the blue sky, Fedderwitz said she kept her window open.
“When it’s really nice out, I don’t have to be outside to 
appreciate the weather,” she said.
Gresley said the new windows feature trim that gives 
them their original look.
“Even with all the renovations,” Fedderwitz said, “it still 
feels old-timey.”  One of UF’s oldest 
buildings Thomas Hall to get A/C soonCAMPUS
By Chris Kennedy
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nursing and pharmacy students 
may not have to worry about losing 
their ﬂ  ash drives anymore.
Previously, students who came 
in contact with personal health in-
formation  were not allowed to use 
OneDrive @ UF in an attempt to pro-tect sensitive information. Students, faculty and staff are now able to use 
this service as long as they follow all 
of UF’s data privacy rules.
OneDrive @ UF is an online cloud 
service offered by the UF Information Technology Department, which gives students 1TB of free storage for docu-ments and other ﬁ  les.
Chris Easley, UFIT interim direc-
tor of enterprise infrastructure and operations, wrote in an email the ban was lifted after discussions with UFIT, UF general counsel and the UF privacy ofﬁ  ce.
Students are expected to follow 
the rules and not share health infor-mation through this channel, he said.
“UF has an Acceptable Usage pol-
icy that must be adhered to and fol-lowed,” Easley said.
James Oulman, UFIT senior sys-
tems administrator, said students can also access and update ﬁ  les on their 
laptop, tablet or smartphone as well 
as through various programs.“Students also get access to the 
Ofﬁ  ce products through PC and Mac, iOS and Android devices,” he said. “And from these applications, they can natively access their OneDrive ﬁ  les.”
Easley said he thinks students and 
faculty alike can beneﬁ  t from the ser-vice due to its collaboration capabili-ties.
“Students will be able to collabo-
rate with faculty and other students on project work and share ﬁ  les and information,” Easley said. “They can access their information from any de-vice, from anywhere and collaborate 
with anyone — all in a UF-vetted and 
approved environment.” OneDrive now open to health students
“When it’s really nice out, I don’t have to be outside to 
appreciate the weather.”
Rebecca Fedderwitz
Thomas Hall residentCollege of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences, one in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, four in the College of Medicine, two in the College of Medicine and Pub-lic Health and Health Professions and one in the College of Veteri-nary Medicine. 
At the beginning of the meet-
ing, the co-presidents of Graduate Assistants United addressed the committee members about lower-ing graduate assistant fees.
“We want to let them know 
that addressing the burden of fees, fee relief as we put it, is es-sential to making their goal, and the goal of all of us, of becoming a top research university,” said John Hames, one of the presi-dents.
The group will continue to 
discuss graduate assistant fees at 10 a.m. today outside Emerson Alumni Hall, where UF President Fuchs will hold a strategic discus-sion with the Board of Trustees on UF’s preeminence plan.
GAU members will set up a ta-
ble outside for graduate assistants to speak about the fees, which av-erage $1,400 annually.
Diana Moreno, the chief coor-
dinator for GAU, said she wants the open forum to further facili-tate conversation between stu-dents and trustees.
“We want this to be a two-
way conversation,” she said. “We would like to hear from them, and we invite them to have a seat at GAU’s table to speak with us on what their perspectives are.”
Moreno said she believes ad-
dressing the organization’s re-quest for graduate assistant fee reduction is crucial for UF to enter national academic prominence.
“We believe the preeminence 
campaign could only happen if the board and GAU work col-laboratively with graduate assis-tants, students, faculty and staff,” she said.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
wrote in an email that the Board of Trustees doesn’t have ofﬁ  cial plans to attend the forum.
“The Board of Trustees will 
not take up any GAU issues in their meetings,” Sikes said. “Any discussions are reserved for the collective bargaining process.”
Moreno said GAU plans to con-
tinue Thursday’s discussion be-tween board members and gradu-ate assistants.
“We’re offering coffee, bagels 
and casual conversation,” she said.4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015
BOT,  from pg1Graduate Assistants United to table outside Emerson Hall todaya gun he had loaded.
In mid-February, the source offered to con-
tact a “professional” to kill the inmate, accord-
ing to the afﬁ  davit.
Around March 18 and 19, the FBI gave its 
source a disposable phone with fake photos that showed the inmate “brutally murdered,” Bondi said in a conference call. When the source showed the three men the photos, all three men appeared happy, with Moran and Driver smiling and shaking the source’s hand, according to the afﬁ  davit.
Multiple news outlets re-
ported Moran was hired as a correctional ofﬁ  cer in January 1996 and was promoted to cor-rectional ofﬁ  cer sergeant in April 2004. Driver was hired as a cor-
rectional ofﬁ  cer in July 2010. Both men have 
since been ﬁ  red, according to a press release from Department of Corrections secretary Julie Jones.
Newcomb was hired in October 2012 but 
was ﬁ  red less than three months later for fail-
ing to complete employee train-ing.
Multiple state and federal 
agencies assisted with the inves-tigation, Bondi said.
An agent spokesman with 
the FBI declined to comment on where the three men were arrested, citing the ongoing investigation.The FBI arrested all three men on charges 
of conspiracy to commit ﬁ  rst-degree murder, Bondi said. Her ofﬁ  ce will prosecute the case in Columbia County, and, if found guilty, the men each face 30 years in Florida state prison.
Authorities took Newcomb to the Alachua 
County Jail on Thursday morning, where he remained as of press time in lieu of a $750,000 bond. 
Driver and Moran were taken to the Union 
County Jail.
FBI,  from pg1Men charged with conspiracy to commit irst-degree murderALUMNI
By Zee Krstic
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Morey Wright walked into a barbershop 
for his regular haircut, he wasn’t expecting to meet Dale “Diezel” Higgs and a group of sweaty people exercising in the back room.
Wright, a 2014 UF Online business administra-
tion graduate, met Higgs in a Pompano Beach bar-bershop in 2012. Higgs, an ex-convict who turned his life around with exercise, is working with Wright 
on producing the Prison Body Workout.
Higgs, 35, began serving time at 16 years old for 
selling narcotics. While working toward his GED di-
ploma and several trade courses, like hair styling, 
he conceptualized the Prison Body Workout, a ﬁ  t-
ness routine typical for those behind bars.
After graduating, Wright, then 27, joined forces 
with Higgs to mass-produce the Prison Body Work-out, a do-it-yourself ﬁ  tness program that promises results with household items and a set of dumb-bells. The duo launched a Kickstarter campaign 
Monday to raise funds.
In prison, Higgs exercised in his cell any way he could, including using his rolled-up cot to do push-ups and lunges. When he was released, he trained 
as a side job.
“I saw the best bodies in the world, and I caught 
on quickly,” Higgs said. “I didn’t have the routines that everyone usually has, but I gained over 100 pounds of muscles in four years.”
Wright said he saw the routine’s potential that 
ﬁ  rst day in the barbershop.
“I saw this workout and thought, ‘Wow, a lot 
of people would want to do a workout like this,’” he said.
While the duo intends to use the money they 
raise to launch a nationwide advertising campaign and sell the DVD set on a large scale, Wright said he sees the Prison Body Workout as an opportunity for ex-convicts to change their lives.
“A training program with former, non-violent 
inmates can give them a chance to put the skill set 
they built in prison to use,” he said. “It can help 
them get their life back together.”  
Wright went through test trials and asked for cli-
ent input, and now he plans to take the brand to a national level and turn the Prison Body Workout into a franchise, which would create local classes instructed by former prisoners.  
 Wright said the business plan reﬂ  ects the entre-
preneurship he learned as a UF student.  
“I had always wanted to be a Gator — it just 
happened when I was 27,” he said.UF Online alumnus, ex-convict 
launch Kickstarter for ﬁ  tness appTHERE WILL BE PRIZES.
By Nicole Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
ngomez@alligator.org
Brett Lackey will don a wetsuit, ﬁ  ns, 
an air tank and a dive mask to hunt for 
Easter eggs this weekend.
On Saturday evening, he’ll dive into 
the 72-degree waters of Devil’s Den in 
Williston, where about 300 
real eggs will be scattered on the bottom of the under-ground spring.
It will be the third time 
Scuba Monkey Dive Center will hold an underwater Easter egg hunt, said Tim Boehnlein, owner of the dive center.
About 190 people went last year, 
and Boehnlein said he expects at least as many this time.
A barbecue dinner from Anderson’s 
Outdoor Adventures will be served at about 4 p.m., and the dive will begin after sunset.
The eggs are all real, Boehnlein said, 
so they won’t harm the environment if 
they’re not found.
Three will be gold-colored, and the people who ﬁ  nd them will be able to 
choose from three prizes: a Cressi Leon-ardo dive computer, a Bigblue dive light and a diving trip at Epcot.
Boehnlein said the dive center de-
cided to hold the annual event so local divers could meet.
“A lot of people like diving in the 
area, and they don’t really have dive buddies,” he said. “So this is a good event to kind of get everybody together.”
To participate in the un-
derwater hunt, divers must be certiﬁ  ed to scuba dive in open water and have their own scuba gear. They are required to sign up before-
hand by calling the dive 
center at 386-518-6323 and paying $25, 
Boehnlein said. Visitors can attend and eat without diving for $10.
Lackey, a geographic information 
systems specialist and member of the Outdoor Adventure Recreation club at UF, said he plans to attend the event with other members. The 26-year-old 
said when he went with seven other 
club members last year, the group won a wetsuit and a buoyancy control device by ﬁ  nding the golden eggs.
“It’s so much fun,” he said. “It’s a 
gorgeous cave.”Deep dive for eggs in 
Devil’s Den annual hunt 
LOCAL“I saw this workout and thought, ‘Wow, a lot of 
people would want to do a workout like this.’”
Morey Wright
co-founder, Prison Body Workout
NATIONAL
East CampusEast Campus
Doubles Doubles (per student)(per student)
‘14-’15 to ‘15-’16‘14-’15 to ‘15-’16‘14-’15 to ‘15-’16‘14-’15 to ‘15-’16
Broward, Rawlings, Broward, Rawlings, Broward, Rawlings, Broward, Rawlings, Broward, Rawlings, 
Mallory, Reid, Yulee, Mallory, Reid, Yulee, Mallory, Reid, Yulee, Mallory, Reid, Yulee, Mallory, Reid, Yulee, Mallory, Reid, Yulee, 
Jennings:Jennings:Jennings:
$2,558 to $2,648$2,558 to $2,648$2,558 to $2,648
Cypress:
$3,453 to $3,574$3,453 to $3,574$3,453 to $3,574
Beaty:Beaty:
$2,749 to $2,845$2,749 to $2,845West CampusWest CampusWest Campus
Doubles Doubles (per student)(per student)(per student)
‘14-’15 to ‘15-’16‘14-’15 to ‘15-’16‘14-’15 to ‘15-’16
Graham, Simpson, Graham, Simpson, 
Trusler, T olbert, Riker, 
Weaver, East, North: 
$2,558 to $2,648
Springs: 
$2,957 to $3,060
Hume:
$3,453 to $3,574Single undergrad student rate increases: 3.5%Single undergrad student rate increases: 3.5%Single undergrad student rate increases: 3.5%Single undergrad student rate increases: 3.5%Single undergrad student rate increases: 3.5%Single undergrad student rate increases: 3.5%Single undergrad student rate increases: 3.5%Single undergrad student rate increases: 3.5%Single undergrad student rate increases: 3.5%
Murphree AreaMurphree AreaMurphree Area
Doubles Doubles (per student)(per student)(per student)
‘14-’15 to ‘15-’16‘14-’15 to ‘15-’16‘14-’15 to ‘15-’16‘14-’15 to ‘15-’16‘14-’15 to ‘15-’16
Murphree: Murphree: 
$2,715 to $2,815$2,715 to $2,815$2,715 to $2,815
Thomas, Buckman, Thomas, Buckman, Thomas, Buckman, Thomas, Buckman, 
Sledd, Fletcher:Sledd, Fletcher:Sledd, Fletcher:Sledd, Fletcher:
$2,558 to $2,648$2,558 to $2,648$2,558 to $2,648$2,558 to $2,648$2,558 to $2,648
Add’l Fletcher:Add’l Fletcher:Add’l Fletcher:Add’l Fletcher:Add’l Fletcher:
$2,605 to $2,696$2,605 to $2,696$2,605 to $2,696Graduate Monthly Rate IncreasesGraduate Monthly Rate Increases
‘14-’15 to ‘15-’16:
Corey Village, Diamond Village, Corey Village, Diamond Village, Corey Village, Diamond Village, 
University Village South, University Village South, 
T anglewood Apartments:T anglewood Apartments:
Rates Increased 3.5%Rates Increased 3.5%
Maguire Village:
One Bedroom: $516 to $560 One Bedroom: $516 to $560 One Bedroom: $516 to $560 (8.9%)(8.9%)(8.9%)
One Bed w/ Remodeled Kitchen:One Bed w/ Remodeled Kitchen:One Bed w/ Remodeled Kitchen:One Bed w/ Remodeled Kitchen:
$550 to $599 $550 to $599 $550 to $599 (8.9%)(8.9%)(8.9%)
Two Bedroom:
$576 to $617 $576 to $617 (7.2%)(7.2%)
Two Bed w/ Remodeled Kitchen:Two Bed w/ Remodeled Kitchen:Two Bed w/ Remodeled Kitchen:
$610 to $658 $610 to $658 (7.9%)(7.9%)
Alligator StaffFRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
From left: Christine Diaz, a 22-year-old UF psychology senior, and Bushra Rashid, a 20-year-old 
UF sociology junior practice a dance to a portion of Beyonce’s “Flawless” in the Reitz Union on Monday. They’ll perform the dance at Pakistani Students’ Association’s 19th annual cultural show “Humara Saturday Night Live, ” featuring Pakistani-Dutch singer Imran Khan.
CAMPUS
By Jennifer Jenkins
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Pakistani Students’ Associ-
ation is promoting female empow-
erment through dance in its spring 
cultural show this weekend.
The dance will be among a few 
PSA cultural performances at 6:30 p.m. Saturday at the Phillips Cen-ter for the Performing Arts. 
Nazmi Ahmed, a UF sustain-
ability studies junior, is choreo-graphing the dance. She has never taken a dance class, but she said she has been dancing on her own since sixth grade.
Now, the 21-year-old is using 
her passion for dance to promote feminism and peel back the stereo-types of Pakistani and South-Asian cultures.
Ahmed said the dance’s femi-
nist message was inspired by the 
speech by Nigerian novelist Chi-mamanda Ngozi Adichie that 
opened Beyoncé’s song “Flawless” 
because it made her think about her South-Asian culture.
“Back in the day, we were edu-
cated up until the point where we got married — and that’s it,” she 
said.
A young, educated woman, she 
said there is more to aspire to now 
than marriage, and she is using 
dance to get that message across.
The dance will consist of four 
sections. Three will be performed to music by Pakistani artists and 
represent the different facets of 
women within the culture. One 
section will be a reproduction of 
“Flawless,” Ahmed said.  
Ahmed said the sections show 
the fragile, cultural and fearless sides of women. The finale brings 
them all together.
The 22 dancers are from dif-
ferent cultural backgrounds, and many are part of PSA, Ahmed said.
Farah Naz, a UF accounting 
sophomore, will be performing 
during “Flawless” and one other dance. The second-year PSA mem-
ber said they are showing that 
women in her Pakistani culture 
aren’t oppressed and have the 
power to do what they want.
“It not only promotes feminism, 
but it also promotes Pakistani cul-ture,” Naz, 19, said. “And it shows 
how we shouldn’t be misrepresent-
ed by Pakistani terrorism.”
Ahmed said the song “Flawless” 
is not meant to tell parents their way of thinking is backwards. In-
stead, it’s about making them un-
derstand their daughters have just as much potential as their sons do.
“This is our generation,” she 
said. “We’re filled with potential. 
We’re filled with spirit and change, 
and we’re going to make a change in this world.”Pakistani Students’ Assoc. prepares  
feminist-empowerment dance
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Mix and Match
Turner Thornberry, a 20-year-old UF aerospace engineering 
sophomore, mixes some of his original music tracks. The Disc Jockey Collective tabling event was held on Plaza of the Ameri-cas on Thursday. 
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Contributing Writer  
On Saturday, the Civic Media 
Center will be welcoming an old friend: the worker-run collective Rad Press Cafe.
Rad Press Cafe, formerly 
known as Radical Press Coffee Collective, is returning from a five-month hiatus. Radical Press Coffee originally opened in April 2013 in the Civic Media Center, an alterna-tive library that carries indepen-dent media.
A lack of collec-
tive members and involvement was the reason Radical Press Coffee closed in Octo-ber 2014, said Kenzie Cooke, coordinator of the Civic Media Center and a founding member of Rad Press Cafe.
They took the time to reorga-
nize their menu and re-evaluate how their business is run, said Emily Spar, one of the founding collective members. An hourly wage was also established to bet-ter support their workers and busi-ness.
The coffee shop is also adding to its menu.
In an effort to provide faster ser-
vice to customers, Rad Press Cafe 
will now be offering drip coffee, 
Cooke said. A cup of drip coffee 
will cost $2.50, and a double shot 
of espresso is also $2.50. Lattes are 
$4, and cappuccinos are $3.25.
There will also be sandwiches, 
pastries, and other prepared foods 
and drinks.
Feedback from customers has 
also led to the addition of local dairy milk, Spar said. Although 
Rad Press Cafe is vegan, they 
chose to offer it in order to compro-
mise with customer 
requests while also 
sticking to their mis-sion of minimizing harm to the environ-
ment.
“We’re looking forward to of-
fering the community more of 
what they want,” Spar said.
Anthony Rue, the owner of 
Volta Coffee, Tea & Chocolate, said he isn’t worried about the 
competition with Rad Press Cafe.  
“The more people that do cof-
fee,” he said, “the more people that become familiar with what 
we do.”Coffee shop reopens 
after 5-month hiatus
LOCALThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
With this week came April Fools’ Day and a long list of 
hoaxes — Nutella discontinuing, “The Walking Dead” be-
ing canceled, UF President Kent Fuchs and football coach Jim McElwain switching jobs. But some of the events of this week were unfortunately and painfully real, which brings us to this week’s edition of ...  
Darts & Laurels
Lately, the biggest international stories are about the nuclear deal with Iran, ﬁ  nalized yesterday, and last week’s Germanwings tragedy. 
The crash is believed to have been deliberately caused 
by the plane’s co-pilot, Andreas Lubitz. He locked every-
one out of the cockpit and slowed the plane down on its de-scent to prevent alarms from going off. All 150 people on the 
plane died in the crash. 
Most people would be hard-pressed to ﬁ  nd any relation-
ship between the two; then again, most people aren’t former 
Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann. Bachmann, whose cra-zy eyes reﬂ  ect a generally uncouth and unstable disposition, 
left ofﬁ  ce in 2014. 
She remains vocally involved in politics. In a rather bi-
zarre Facebook post, the one-time presidential candidate, 
who just scored a cameo in the upcoming Sharknado 3 mov-ie, compared President Obama to Lubitz in reference to the 
Iran deal.  In forging a diplomatic solution to a serious prob-
lem, Obama is acting like “a deranged pilot ﬂ  ying his entire 
nation into the rocks.” 
Now, Michele Bachmann — or anyone, for that matter 
— is welcome to disagree with the Iran deal. They’re wel-
come to articulate their disapproval and anger, too — this is 
America, after all. But, for the love of God, there are plenty 
of ways to do so without resorting to such blunt and taste-less comparisons as this. Here’s a big ol’ DART to Michele 
Bachmann — not for disagreeing with the deal, but for do-ing so in the least tactful way imaginable.  
For once, the nation’s attention turned to Indiana after 
the governor signed a religious freedom act that could be used by businesses to discriminate against gay couples that want to get married. 
It got pretty nasty pretty quickly, and things got even 
worse when a local ABC afﬁ  liate interviewed the owners of a small-town pizza parlor, Memories Pizza. The Walkerton, Indiana, restaurant is family-owned, proudly displays cross-es and, as its owner said on television, “if a gay couple came in and wanted us to provide pizzas for their wedding, we would have to say no.” 
It was pretty much the worst-case scenario under the new 
law, and people freaked accordingly. Some freaked too hard, sabotaging the restaurant’s Yelp and threatening to burn the place down. 
The ﬁ  erceness of the response basically conﬁ  rmed fears 
of gay, leftist, anti-Christian hate mobs. Supporters raised more than $200,000 in less than 24 hours to help Memories Pizza fend off Big Gay. For that, we’re gonna have to hand a DART to pretty much everyone involved in the ﬁ  asco — Memories Pizza, the donors, but mostly the vulgar trolls 
who are giving them a cause to ﬁ  ght for.
In local news, Student Government just ﬁ  nalized a deal 
with Uber that would reduce fares to UF students by 50 per-cent. 
While the reduced rate applies only at certain times and 
in certain areas, it covers both Midtown and downtown dur-ing peak no-one-should-be-driving hours. Safety is a great thing to incentivize; For that, we’d like to present SG and 
Uber a LAUREL for working together to improve student welfare.Cutting higher education budget not the answer
Over the past decade, higher education has gone 
through what some might consider a period of aus-terity. As state revenues declined, public education budgets at every level were put on the chopping block. Public education consumes the most sizable 
portion of a state’s budget, so it’s not altogether surprising schools had to tighten their belts during the recession. With that in mind, it was ﬂ  abbergasting to discover the Louisiana Legislature’s budget for next year might cut Louisiana State University’s budget by 82 percent.
Yes, you read that correctly. The budget currently un-
der consideration in Baton Rouge would cut funding to the state’s ﬂ  agship university from this year’s $110 million to a paltry sum of $30 million for the next ﬁ  scal year. LSU’s presi-
dent, F. King Alexander, predicted an apocalyptic scenario if 
the budget is passed. The university may be forced to cancel 2,000 classes, and every employee at LSU will be furloughed.
Public colleges and universities have managed through 
lean years. While budget cuts do not lead to friendly out-comes, what Louisiana is considering could potentially dev-astate its ﬂ  agship university. The state may blame a budget crisis, but an 80-percent cut is not tightening one’s belt dur-ing a lean period; it’s death by starvation.
Stop and think about what you would do if the Florida 
Legislature proposed cutting UF’s funding by 80 percent. What would you do if the university suddenly had to can-cel 2,000 classes and furlough every employee at UF? The thought is terrifying. It’s time all those who support a strong public college and university system stand up to politicians who regularly put higher education on the chopping block.
UF survived ﬁ  ve consecutive years of budget cuts, and 
the state Legislature is slowly but surely restoring signiﬁ  -
cant funding to the state university system. Good for UF, but 
what’s going on in Louisiana?
Louisiana’s facing a $1.6 billion budget shortfall, and 
naturally, education is the ﬁ  rst item on the budget to face cuts. However, even with a billion-dollar budget deﬁ  cit, it’s unfathomable that LSU faces an 80-percent budget cut. If education is key to ending the cycle of poverty, Louisiana appears ready to embrace a continuation of that cycle.While state legislators scramble 
to balance a budget, they can’t ig-nore Louisiana has the fourth-highest child poverty rate in the country. Gut-ting education demonstrates blatant 
ignorance to the tools available to a 
state to combat the cycle of poverty. Just Google education and poverty: Scholars, pundits, politicians, teachers and economists all argue that strong education systems can break cycles of 
poverty in the U.S. and abroad. It prepares people for the challenges of a 21st century workforce, and a good education likely means better economic outcomes as an adult.
Not every student in Louisiana needs or wants a four-year 
degree from a school like LSU, but the state’s treatment of LSU is indicative of how we’ve treated public education sys-tems throughout the country. One could argue public educa-tion helped build the middle class during the 20th century. Our nation’s strong network of public primary and secondary schools, colleges and universities built the U.S., and without it, it’s easy to question whether the U.S. would be nearly as powerful as it is today.
We need leaders committed to public education at ev-
ery level. In the long term, no state can afford balancing its budget on the backs of schools. Without a strong education system, what company wants to invest in your state? To ﬁ  nd adequate workers, they’ll have to look out-of-state, and re-location costs are expensive. A state’s economic success is intricately tied to its investment in education. Continue to disassemble your public school system, and it’s unlikely the strength of your state’s economy will ever help balance the 
budget.
Here are some words for the Louisiana Legislature and 
Gov. Bobby Jindal: You will never cut your way to success. If 
you don’t believe me, take a look at LSU this Fall if the state budget passes; it won’t be pretty. Even LSU football coach Les Miles can’t save you from what will happen.   
Joel Mendelson is a second-year UF political campaign-
ing graduate student. His column appears on Fridays.FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Joel Mendelson
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Premier Auto Collision Experts
Insurance claims
Domestic & 
foreign cars
Certified technicians
352-371-0215 33 SE 13th Rd. gt-motocars.netShow a Santa Fe 
or UF ID for a 
student or 
faculty discount
On Feb. 22, 2013, I wore a cream 
dress that I borrowed from my ﬂ  oor-mate. On Feb. 22, 2013, I went to a beach-side bar in Daytona. On Feb. 22, 2013, I was sexually assaulted.
I remember what I was wearing because 
I had to get the blood stains dry-cleaned out of it before I gave it back. And while there’s certainly a large portion of the night that I don’t remember, I can still remember the most important part.
The event was a date function with a fra-
ternity, and it was during a period in my life when I was really struggling with depression and using alcohol 
to cope with it. That’s relevant because on the night in 
question, I got very drunk and upset, so I wandered off from the group to a nearby hotel to sit in the lobby and cool off.
The next thing I remember is being in the hotel el-
evator with a group of strange men who ignored my cries and my screams of “no” as one by one, they shoved their hands into my underwear.
They laughed to each other about having sex with 
me, but before that could happen, I managed to get 
out of the elevator and run for the stairs, away from 
the people who had just violated me. At some point, I tripped while I was running and scraped both my knees, so when my friends ﬁ  nally found me a few hours later, still drunk and stumbling next to a main road in Daytona, I was covered in tears and blood.
I had gone missing from the fraternity function — 
and let me state for the sake of clarity that while the Greek system may certainly be complicit in some as-saults, I do not fault them at all for mine — so I received a call from the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce later that night. 
A short conversation with them to ensure that I was OK 
and not still missing, and it was all over.
They didn’t ask what happened, so my secret was 
safe, and I alone was left with the memories. Memories kept coming back to me and playing through my head. I would have panic attacks on campus when I saw Greek letters that reminded me of that night. I didn’t want anyone — friends, boys — to touch me, as their ﬁ  ngers felt just like the ﬁ  ngers of strangers creeping up my thighs, pushing aside my underwear, covering my mouth while I yelled “no.”
I blamed myself for it. You see, I did ev-
erything wrong. I was drunk. I was alone. I was wearing a revealing dress. I was the perfect case for victim-blamers. I was ask-ing for it.
Except I wasn’t. I wasn’t asking to be as-
saulted. No one ever is. One in ﬁ  ve college 
women are victims of attempted or completed sexual assault, and none of them want to be taken advantage 
of. Many assaults, like mine, will involve alcohol — 89 
percent, actually. Most assaults, unlike mine, involve an attacker whom the survivor knows — a whopping 90 percent.
In a way, I’m lucky. I’ll never see the men who as-
saulted me again. I’m not dating them. I don’t live near them. I don’t have classes with them. Many survivors do not have this privilege. I’m also, in a way, lucky that I managed to get away before I was forced to have sex 
— something that I know would have been far more 
traumatic, although this does not lessen the validity of my or any sexual assault.
It’s been more than two years, and my life is so 
much better in so many ways, but sexual assault isn’t something you ever really get over. My knees still have scars from falling down the stairs. Sometimes I’ll still be triggered, always at the worst moments, and it’s hard to explain why you’re suddenly crying in the middle 
of a party.
The sad fact is that I’m not alone in this. So many, 
too many, people have stories like mine. Stories of un-
heard “no’s,” stories of unwanted touching, stories that they’ll never forget.
If you haven’t experienced assault, support and lis-
ten to the stories of survivors. Attend events like Take Back the Night, which took place this week, to see what you can do to end sexual assault and rape culture.
But if you are a survivor, I want to urge you, if you’re 
comfortable, to talk to someone about it, whether that’s a professional or just a friend. And I want to remind you that it’s never your fault, and that people exist who believe and support you. And even if it doesn’t seem like it, healing is possible.
Your assault doesn’t deﬁ  ne you and you’re allowed 
to be sad or be angry or feel how you want to feel. And even if it still hurts sometimes, the scars on your knees 
will eventually fade and the blood will wash out of your 
dress and one day, things will seem a little bit better.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism junior. Her col-
umn appears on Fridays.A story of survival: Sexual assault is never 
your fault and other lessons learnedColumn
April Fools’ Day is a time-honored, cel-ebrated tradition of corny jokes, physi-cal pranks and 
trying to subtly wrap cel-lophane over your room-mate’s toilet bowl. April Fools’ Day is, like many American holidays, an in-formal celebration of some of our lamest attributes — like our fondness for played-out physical gags or gullibly clicking on 
obviously fake news stories.
Am I the only one who thinks it’s 
played out? Before you, our ﬁ  ne read-
ers, work yourselves into a tizzy over my perceived slight against the insti-tution of April Fools’ Day, let me re-assure you that, yes, I do enjoy com-edy. Not only did I attend Funny or Die’s Oddball Festival in Tampa this 
past summer, but I seem to be the 
only person in my friend group who made it to John Mulaney’s stand-up performance at UF last Friday.
Comedy — or let me clarify, good 
comedy — is about subverting expec-tations. As much as I loathe to be the one to explain a joke, there is a brief bit on YouTube where Louis C.K. 
talks about Ray Charles. Performed 
soon after the late soul pioneer’s passing, Louis asks the audience if it’s too soon to do a Ray Charles joke. The audience, thinking that Louis is going to crack a joke about 
Charles’ blindness, which was the 
man’s deﬁ  ning characteristic, says no. Louis acquiesces to their request, and rather than going the predictable route of harping on Charles’ disabil-ity, he quickly resorts to calling him a “dead asshole” and other unprintable obscenities. Once he’s done, Louis notes, “It might’ve been too soon.” 
It’s shocking, vulgar and surprising. 
It’s comedy.
April Fools’ Day, by its very exis-
tence, spits in the face of that. Every-
body is expecting a gag; I dropped a piece of toilet paper over toilet bowls more than once Wednesday to make sure they were safe to use.It would be one thing 
if everyone who fancies themselves a comedic ge-nius on April Fools’ Day were just that: comedic 
geniuses. Believe me, I’d 
love to live in a world where one day of the year was ﬁ  lled with nothing but hilarious insights into the human condition and unrepentant vulgarity. In-
stead, we’re treated to Rickrolls and easily removable sticky notes on our 
cars.
Now, I’m not a completely miser-
able human being, and I understand 
the joy that April Fools’ does bring for many people. So next year, I would like to propose we do something truly unexpected and actually subversive: not celebrate April Fools’ Day at all. 
No longer would the entire world 
be the prankee to a long drawn-out day ﬁ  lled with lame “jokes” and “hoaxes,” but rather the joke would be on the people who somehow think that anyone is actually going to be-lieve that Simon Cowell is now going 
to adorn British banknotes.
Comedy is about surprises; mark-
ing a day on your calendar to get 
surprised is anything but. Life, day in and day out, is already a great big 
hilarious joke — let’s not belabor the 
point. April Fools’ Day gets a zero out of ten, would never do again.
Zach Schlein is a UF political sci-
ence junior. His column appears on Fridays.April Fools’ Day is, while time-
honored, antithetical to comedyColumn
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.org
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org
“ So many, too many, people 
have stories like mine. Stories 
of unheard 'no’s,' stories of 
unwanted touching, stories 
that they’ll never forget.”“Comedy is 
about surprises; 
marking a day 
on your calendar 
to get surprised is 
anything but."8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015
By Carla Vianna
Alligator Staff Writer
cvianna@alligator.org
The City Commission took 
a step forward Thursday in the 
Gainesville Regional Utilities gov-
ernance issue.
Commissioner Yvonne Hin-
son-Rawls urged the commission 
to “just do something,” and Com-
missioner Lauren Poe responded 
with a two-part motion.
Mayor Ed Braddy was the 
only one to oppose the ﬁ  rst part, which involves the creation of a GRU advisory board to oversee all utility-related issues. However, the commission would still ulti-
mately run the utility. The second 
part, which passed unanimously, involved a voter referendum on the November 2016 ballot asking voters whether they want to keep 
the new advisory board or create 
a new, independent governing utility body.
“We don’t know at what point 
our efforts here will derail the Tallahassee train,” Commissioner Helen Warren said, referring to Rep. Keith Perry’s GRU gover-nance bill now making its way through the Florida House of Rep-resentatives.
It was agreed that the com-
mission will ask Perry to amend Florida House Bill 1325 to include only the voter referendum. If Per-ry rejects the recommendation, 
Poe said the commission will take 
action to put it on the ballot itself.
Commissioner Craig Carter, 
while opposing the state’s in-
volvement in the local affair, ad-
vised the commission to involve Perry in the process to avoid a split community.Poe described the advisory 
board as a seven- to nine-mem-ber board with one-third of its 
members appointed by Alachua 
County to represent GRU users outside of the city. The commis-sion would appoint the rest of the members.
The board would pursue its 
own agenda items independent from the commission’s, as well as make overall recommendations 
for a proposed GRU budget and 
rate. Members would also have the power to make audit requests for the internal city auditor, Poe said.
Braddy said he could not sup-
port a motion that would ulti-
mately strain the GRU staff at 
such a critical time.
“I hope that no one is under 
any delusion that we are going to make things easier on our already 
strained GRU staff,” he said.
Earlier in the day, the commis-
sion narrowed the GRU general 
manager selection to three candi-
dates: Ed Bielarski, Charles Dick-
erson and Rob McGarrah. 
The discussion will continue 
April 16.
GRU advisory board approved 6-1 by GNV City Commission
IT’S SIMILAR TO LAWS IN 26 OTHER 
STATES.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Florida House bill is proposing women be re-
quired to see a physician twice within 24 hours to 
receive an abortion.
“I think that it will give them the ability to make 
a more informed decision,” said Rep. Jennifer Sul-livan, a sponsor of HB 633. “I personally know many women who have been pressured into having an abortion.”
If passed, Florida would join 26 other 
states in requiring those seeking an abor-tion to wait a designated amount of time.
The bill also requires that the physi-
cian performing the procedure or the re-ferring physician is in the room with the woman during visits.
Under current Florida law, a woman 
must be informed by her physician in-person of the nature and risks of the procedure and the probable age of the fetus. The woman also must be given an opportunity to view the ultrasound.
Some have called into question the constitutional-
ity of such a bill, but Sullivan said she doesn’t think that’s an issue.“We wrote it in such a way that it will be consti-
tutional,” Sullivan said.
The language used in the bill has also been used 
in six other states and was challenged in ﬁ  ve of those states, but the legislation was upheld each time, ac-
cording to Sullivan.
HB 633 has passed all three committees and will 
now go to the House ﬂ  oor for a vote.
The House bill’s Senate counterpart, SB 724, 
passed its ﬁ  rst committee March 31. If it passes its re-maining two committees, Judiciary and Fiscal Policy, 
it will go to the Senate ﬂ  oor for a vote.
Planned Parenthood opposes the bill and has 
been urging people to sign their pledge in opposition to HB 633.
“It will make women who are disad-
vantaged even worse off,” said Dr. Chris-
topher Estes, the chief medical ofﬁ  cer for 
Planned Parenthood of South Florida and the Treasure Coast.
Women who live in rural areas will 
have a harder time getting to a clinic 
twice, Estes said. The bill will also affect women 
who will have difﬁ  culty arranging for childcare and 
time off from work.
“By the time a woman comes in for the procedure, 
she’s been thinking about it for a while,” Estes said.
Sullivan said she thinks the bill will pass the 
House. If passed, the bill would be effective July 1.State bill proposes 24-hour waiting 
period, doctors visits for abortions Florida bill proposes 24-hour waiting period for women seeking abortions
STATE
NEWS
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Up in the air
Megan Tse, a 20-year-
old ﬂ  yer on UF’s com-petitive cheerlead-ing team, performs a one-and-a-half up cheerleading stunt on the Plaza of the Americas on Thurs-day afternoon. Tse and her teammates were practicing the stunt in preparation for the NCA & NDA Collegiate Cheer and Dance Championship on April 9.FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 Danielle Veenstra / Alligator
T op:  Analeis Bain, a 19-year-old UF marketing sophomore, rehearses her walk for the “Warriors” 
fashion show Thursday in the Reitz Grand Ballroom. Right: Analeis Bain, a 19-year-old UF market-
ing sophomore, receives a final lip touch up before her walk on the runway.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator
T op: Victoria Burney, 24, sits in a mist of hairspray while Donnie Lancaster (left), 59, a Sixth 
Street Station salon stylist makes his finishing touches. Bottom: Kevin Huynh, the 23-year-
old fashion director for “Warriors, ” takes a picture of Analeis Bain, a 19-year-old UF mar-keting sophomore, wearing the final look to Romey Roe’s Fall/Winter 2015 collection on Wednesday at the Beauty Palette.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator
Analeis Bain, a 19-year-old UF marketing sophomore, poses at the end of her run-way walk for former “Project Runway” contestant Sandhya Garg’s Warrior Tribe circa 2065 collection on Thursday night. Garg, 29, wanted to express what future “warriors” would wear. The walk was part of Pride Awareness Month’s annual fashion show, which features the theme “Warriors” this year.
WARRIORS TAKE RUNWA Y FOR PAMFRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
starting Aug 15, furnished 4 bedroom,4 bath, Condo 1-mile from UF on busroute, 3800 SW 20th Ave, W/D,kitchen, living, pool, all  util included,$350/mo per student, 1 yr lease352-586-6468    4-7-15-10-1
*SUBLEASING*SUMMER C* 4 rooms in a 4/2 apt at Royal Village May 1-Aug 2 $350 per room($189 off) Fully furnished, Utilities,cable,internet,unlimited water,Washer/Dryer,Full beds contact kcubbedge@ufl.edu or 9046696684    4-3-1-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$700 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     4-10-15-40-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    4-7-15-20-2
2 Blocks to UF!
Fully remodeled historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors$700 mo. 352-505-5049     4-10-15-20-2Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balcony
Parking included $575 mo.
352-505-5049       4-10-15-20-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse
Double balcony; One left!
$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      4-10-15-20-2
LARGE 4 X 2 HOUSE
Bike to UF. Travertine and granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht. Modern kitchen, garage, fenced. Landscape care included. Avail Aug 14th, 1 yr lease. No pets. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Aug $825/month, tonyc@kinetixpt.com 352-246-5958.     4-8-15-11-2
Charming house two bedrooms one bath screened porch large fenced yard central heat/air,washer/dryer 1123 NW 31st Ave Lease $750 dog deposit call 352 475 1586 /352 213 1963    4-3-15-5-2
Walk to campus. 2-story condo, Cresap Arms NW 15th St & 5th Ave. 2BR/1.5BA, furnished living & dining rooms. W/D, balcony off mas-ter. Covered parking. Avail Aug 8th. No pets.  $1050/mo. Email: debramain@gmail.com    4-10-15-10-2
● CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ●
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294   4-14-15-10-2 
1BR Cottage $495Small Pet ok
352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-15-14-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.Summer sublet $450/mo furn., utils incl. Private 1BR/BA in 4/4 at 2nd Ave Centre 505 SW 2nd Ave. Walk to uf, downtown; gym, pool, garage parking, w/d in apt. Email john618474@gmail.com    4-3-1-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Wanted, private br/ba, furn liv-ing room, condo end unit (Rockwood Villas) $375/m + util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d. Call George 904.874.5774    4-22-15-14-4
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5Estate Auction:  818+/- Acre Bath Alum Estate  
located in Bath County, VA.  8 Residences, 3 
Hangars,  3525’ x 50’ Paved Air Strip,  5 Acre 
Pond,  Adjoins George Washington National 
Forest,  Cave,  Enclosed 16’x 40’ heated 
pool,  32 Parcels Available. Auction held at 
The Homestead Resort on April 17 at 3 PM. 
5% Buyer's Premium. For more information, 
visit woltz.com or call David Boush. Woltz 
& Associates, Inc. (VA# 321) Real Estate 
Brokers & Auctioneers 800-551-3588.   4-3-
1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished 3 Subleases 5 Real EstateFRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-1291 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.
Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.
Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers   352-771-6191   4-22-15-14-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 4-17-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part - Time WantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal      4-16-15-14
8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Immediately hiring Asst. Mgr & FT employ -
ees for consumer durable goods retail store off of Tower Rd. Drug-Free workplace. Must be able to lift up to 75 lbs, stand for extended periods of time & work weekends and eve-nings. Send resume to gnvretailhrdept@gmail.com    4-3-15-10-14
Help Wanted: small lawn and garden.Two times each month.
call 352-384-3998     4-3-5-14
Opus Coffee
We are searching for fun and active students 
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the direc-tions.     4-10-15-10-14
Housekeeper/driverNeeded 2 days a week/3 hours a day for a family in NW Gainesville near SFCC. Must like cats and dogs. Please email your resume or information about your-self to: altacct@yahoo.com    4-3-15-3-14
    B.A.S.S. is seeking
graduate or undergraduates in psychology,
special education, or related fields
to work with
individuals with developmental disabilities.
Interest in behavior analysis, diet,
and/or exercise is a plus.
Please email Mark at
lister@behavioralsupports.com for more info.
4-6-15-4-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    4-3-1-14
Own Your Own Truck!Best Lease Purchase Deal in the Country!*You can earn over $150,000 per year*No Credit Check*Late-model Freightliner Columbia*Low Truck PaymentCall (866) 306-3027 to talk to a recruiterApply Now Online @ www.joincrst.com    4-3-1-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new ca-reer? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghiway.com EOE    4-3-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
DISH TV Packages for $19.99/mo & $14.95/
mo for Internet + $25 Visa Gift Card (with activation). Call NOW and Save: 844-560-
2654. Conditions apply.   4-3-1-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
WELDING CAREERS - Hands on training 
for career opportunities in aviation, automo-tive, manufacturing and more. Financial aid for qualified students. Job placement assis-tance. CALL AIM 877-206-4006    4-3-1-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-14-71-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 855-588-1161    4-3-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    4-3-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL? Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-972-6607    4-3-1-16
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Connect instantly with sexy local singles! No paid operators, just real people like you. Try it FREE. 18+ Only. Call now: 1-800-931-6473    4-3-1-19IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 24 PetsFRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015
www.alligator.org/sportsBy Graham Hack
Alligator Writer
@graham_hack24
In theory, it’s perform or go 
home for the Gators from now 
until the end of the season.
While that sounds daunting, 
Florida doesn’t really have much to worry about this weekend.
The Gators head to Morgan-
town, West Virginia, for their NCAA Regional this Saturday knowing that anything short of a top-two finish will end their sea-son.
But the odds of that actually 
happening are slim, and the team is viewing this weekend as mere-ly a stepping stone to the NCAA 
Semifinals.
“I couldn’t honestly tell you 
how many regional titles we may 
have won in the past or what the 
number is,” coach Rhonda Faehn 
said, “because it’s simply about our athletes going out, perform-ing incredibly well and prepar-ing and advancing to the national 
championships, and preparing 
those lineups for advancing.”The number of regional titles 
the Gators have won is 14, and 
in the 33-year history of NCAA women’s collegiate gymnastics, 
Florida has only failed to get past 
its regional once — 2000, when the Gators finished third.
And this year’s opponents 
won’t present much of a chal-
lenge.
No. 2 Florida will compete 
against No. 11 Stanford, No. 14 Illinois, No. 19 Arkansas, No. 25 New Hampshire and host West 
Virginia — not exactly jugger-
nauts.
Stanford has only scored in 
the 197 range twice this season, while Florida has only failed to 
reach that mark twice.
Illinois finally scored bet-
ter than 197 for the first time in 
the Big Ten Championships two 
weeks ago, and Arkansas has yet 
to score that high in a competi-tion this year.
The Gators already defeated 
the Razorbacks in Fayetteville on 
Feb. 6 and bested them handily in 
the SEC Championships.
To make matters worse for the 
other five teams, junior Bridget 
Sloan will compete on floor Satur-
day for the first time since sprain-ing her ankle in the same event in Florida’s season opener.
Sloan has been training on 
floor since the SEC Champion-ships and Faehn said she hasn’t shown any signs of rust.
“She looks great,” Faehn said. 
“She’s proven in the last two weeks that she’s more than capa-ble of doing it, so we’re excited.”
Sloan concurred.“The first day I did tumbling 
it was like I didn’t miss a beat,” Sloan said. “That really does come down to my muscle mem-ory. I have this incredible abil-
Stay tuned to alligatorSports
For all the updated information 
from UF athletics this weekend, go to alligator.org/sports and follow our writers on Twitter.Coach Bryan Shelton and the UF men's tennis team return home this weekend for its final two regular-season games at the Ring T ennis Complex. Read the story online at alligator.org/sports
Billy Donovan receives contract extension
Florida men's basketball coach Billy Donovan received a one-year contract 
extension in December, the USA T oday revealed via its list of top-paid col-lege basketball coaches. With the extension, Donovan is the fifth-highest paid college men's basketball coach, earning just more than $4 million a year.Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF coach Rhonda Faehn (left) celebrates with junior Bridget Sloan during the Southeastern Conference 
Championships on March 21. Sloan will compete  all-around  at NCAA Regionals on Saturday.
UF gymnastics heads to West Virginia for NCAA Regionals
UF is the only top-10 team in its field
“The first day I did tumbling 
it was like I didn't miss a 
beat.”
Bridget Sloan
UF gymnast
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 15
BASKETBALL
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
 
Dorian Finney-Smith didn’t want to leave 
Florida early.
The Gators’ leading scorer in 2014-15 an-
nounced Thursday he would be returning to 
UF for his senior season.
Finney-Smith said he reached out to NBA 
scouts regarding his draft potential, but af-ter receiving input, he met with coach Billy Donovan and decided to come back.
The redshirt junior, who transferred to UF 
from Virginia Tech after his freshman year, 
averaged 13.1 points per game last season. 
Finney-Smith became a well-rounded of-
fensive presence for the Gators this season 
and was arguably Florida’s most consistent 
scoring threat.
He displayed considerable range for his 6-foot-8, 218-pound frame, shooting 42.6 percent from beyond the arc in 24 starts.
Florida finished a disappointing 16-17 
last season.
But Finney-Smith said he was eager to re-
turn and help Florida rebuild.
The Gators are coming 
off their first losing season 
since 1997-98, Donovan’s 
second season coaching 
the program.
“I feel like we’ll have 
a great team coming back 
and we’re going to do what 
it takes to lift the program 
back and play basketball the Florida culture 
way,” Finney-Smith said in a release. 
“I got better, but it was a learning expe-
rience being a leader. Now, I’m anxious to 
build on everything I learned.”Finney-Smith returning to UF
Finney-Smith
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
 
When Kevin O’Sullivan pieced together 
Florida’s opening day lineup, it looked for-
midable.
There was speed, pow-
er and reliable bats, there was veteran leadership and freshmen talent, and there was an offensive anchor in Harrison Bad-er.
But like a jigsaw puzzle, one piece went 
missing. And even though the rest still fit together, the picture was incomplete.
As No. 4 Florida (23-7, 5-4 Southeast-
ern Conference) prepares to play Missouri (20-10, 6-3 SEC) tonight at 7, its team will look as close to how O’Sullivan envisioned it would two months ago.
Peter Alonso is expected to return 
sometime this weekend, and although Florida has been patient with his recov-ery, its players yearn to have each starter 
available.
“In the fall when we had 
everybody healthy, pitch-ers didn’t want to throw to 
us,” shortstop Richie Martin said.
But while Alonso’s return is significant, 
it may not make as large of an impact as 
originally assumed. 
Generally, the Gators don’t have trou-
ble finding offense. They are in the top-
five of the SEC in batting average, slugging 
percentage, runs scored and RBIs. 
This is especially true after the emer-Baseball lineup rounding 
out as UF faces Missouri
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15BASEBALL14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Writer
@alexmaminakis
 
Young players who make an im-
pact on their team day-in and day-
out can be the most valuable ones on the roster.
For Florida lacrosse, that player 
is Mollie Stevens.
The sophomore midﬁ  elder from 
Centreville, Maryland, is in the midst of her second-straight domi-nant year for the Gators. 
After starting 17 games and 
scoring 36 goals in her freshman year, Stevens is continuing her suc-
cess this season.
She has scored a goal in 16 
consecutive games, dating back to 
2014, which is four games short of tying the program record of 20 straight games set by Ashley Bruns from 2010-2011. 
Stevens will look to extend that 
scoring streak on Saturday as the 
No. 9 Gators (8-4, 2-0 Big East) host 
Georgetown (2-8, 1-0 Big East) at noon at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
Stevens is second on the team 
this year with 25 goals, and her consistency on offense has been the key to sparking runs of goals in games, leading to eventual Florida 
victories. 
She said it isn’t too hard for her to maintain that consistency each week.
“Just keep playing my game, I guess,” Stevens said, “and doing what I do best, and that’s work-
ing.” Coach Amanda O’Leary said 
that Stevens stands out among the other offensive players with her style of play and the impact that she can have on any game when the ball is in her stick.
While Stevens downplayed her 
recent successes, O’Leary praised them.
“Mollie’s a critical part of our 
program,” O’Leary said. “She, of-fensively, can do things that a lot of our other players can’t. We do like to have the ball in her stick a lot. We have all the faith in the world when she has it that she’s gonna do good things with it.”
The fact that the team has so 
much conﬁ  dence in Stevens, as a 
sophomore, speaks to her future 
and the future of Florida lacrosse. 
She’s quickly becoming the 
leader of the pack and next season, when seniors Shannon Gilroy and Nora Barry are gone, Stevens could be the face of the program.
That’s a position she wouldn’t 
mind taking.
“Yeah, I like it,” Stevens said 
on becoming a leader. “It’s always good to feel like one of the main players, and it’s good to be a part of this team.”
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Mollie Stevens (17) runs down the ﬁ  eld during Florida’s 17-11 loss to North Carolina on Feb. 7 at Don-
ald R. Dizney Stadium.
Midﬁ  elder making strides early in collegiate career
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Justen Rosenberg
Alligator Writer
@JustenRosenberg
The No. 21 UF women’s golf team is in 
Greensboro, North Carolina, this weekend 
as participants in the Bryan National Col-legiate. The tournament will feature four other top-25 teams.
The Gators are playing their best golf 
of the season, after three consecutive top-three ﬁ  nishes.In their last outing – the Briar’s Creek 
Invitational – the Gators, led by sopho-
more Kelly Grassel, left John’s Island, 
South Carolina, with their ﬁ  rst tournament victory of the year.
Grassel, the transfer from Michigan 
State, had her best three rounds as a Gator. She shot a collegiate-best 4-under-par and ﬁ  nished in second place.
But despite a boost in conﬁ  dence, Gras-
sel is not likely to showcase her abilities 
moving forward.Grassel dislocated her 
elbow earlier in the week, after she was involved in 
a bike accident. She is expected to miss the re-mainder of the season, as the injury will keep her sidelined for 3-6 weeks.
In place for Grassel is 
Anna Young, the senior 
from Saskatchewan, Canada. 
For Young, this will be her third event of the year, and her ﬁ  rst time seeing ac-tion in the Gators lineup. It is also her ﬁ  rst 
event since the SunTrust Gator Invitation-
al, the Gators’ lone home tournament of the season.
Young played particularly well, as she 
ﬁ  nished the tournament with a cumulative score of 14-over-par, putting her in a tie for 10th place; ironically, the same standing as Grassel.
Continue reading this story online at 
alligatorSports.org.Sophomore out after dislocating elbow in bike accident
Grassel
FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Shortstop Richie Martin rounds third base after hitting a home run during Florida's 7-4 win against 
Alabama on Saturday at McKethan Stadium.
UF HAS 49 ATHLETES 
COMPETING OVER TWO 
DA YS.
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
After more than three months of 
competing in events on the road, the No. 2 Florida men’s and women’s track and field teams will stay home in Gainesville as they host the Pepsi 
Florida Relays this weekend at the 
Percy Beard Track.
UF will feature a total of 49 indi-
vidual athletes in 32 different events 
as well as six relay teams.
The Gators look to mirror their 
performance at last year’s Florida Relays, when coach Mike Hollo-way’s squad racked up nine wins and 27 top-five finishes.
Senior sprinter Dedric Dukes 
aims to defend his 200-meter dash invitational meet title today. Dukes took the event last year with a 19.97-second performance, becom-ing the then-collegiate and world 
leader and only the second Gator to 
ever finish the outdoor 200 in less 
than 20 seconds.
Dukes was also part of the men’s 
4x400 relay, which featured Najee 
Glass, Hugh Graham Jr. and Arman 
“Gino” Hall, that showcased the 
second-fastest time (2:59.73) in the event in outdoor collegiate 
history at the meet.
Senior hurdler 
Bridgette Owens will at-
tempt to win back-to-back meet titles, as she will take part in 
the 100-meter hurdles. At last year’s 
Florida Relays, she took the event 
in a then-personal record 12.90 sec-onds.
While Kyra Jefferson practices on 
the Percy Beard Track almost every 
day, the sophomore sprinter will re-
turn competitively to the track where she broke the UF women’s 200-me-ter record at the Florida Relays last year. The Detroit native finished the event in 22.78 to secure a runner-up finish in the event.
Senior jumper and NCAA triple 
and long jump champion Marquis Dendy, who has only competed in the triple and long jump this season, will race in the 100-meter dash this 
weekend—his only event. Fellow 
jumper KeAndre Bates will join him 
in the event.
The reason behind 
Holloway’s decision to 
race the two in the short 
sprints this weekend is to help their approaches for 
future jumping events.
“Before you’re a jumper, you’re 
a sprinter,” Holloway said. “Ninety-five percent of the long jump is the sprint.”
While freshmen Jontavia Dykes, 
Darrielle McQueen and Harry Glass-
er did not compete for the Gators last 
season, that did not stop them from making their presence felt at the Gainesville meet.A thrower from Miami North-
western high school, Dykes was victorious in the girls’ discus event, 
throwing a then-PR 43.63 meters. 
McQueen of North Florida Christian 
in Tallahassee won the women’s long jump with a 5.71-meter jump—more than half-of-a-meter less than her current PR of 6.30. Glasser (The Bolles School, Jacksonville) took the 
boys’ pole vault with a 4.87-meter 
attempt.
All three will compete in the same 
respective events this weekend.
Florida track and field begins action at Florida Relays today 
Fun Facts about the Pepsi Florida Relays
•The first Florida Relays took place in 1939 and were 
organized by former Gators track and field coach Percy Beard.
•This year, more than 280 College, club and profes -
sional teams will compete and more than 320 high 
schools will have at least one athlete competing.
•The highlight race of the event is the 4x400-meter 
relay. Last year, UF’s 4x400 group won the race in the eight-team field with a school-record time of 2:59.73, which is the second fastest time in NCAA history.TRACK
gence of its trio of freshmen: Dal-
ton Guthrie, JJ Schwarz and Mike 
Rivera.
Through 30 games, each has a 
higher batting average than Alonso 
did as a freshman last season (.264), 
while Schwarz has almost equaled his RBI total with 28 compared to 
Alonso’s 32 last year.
“A lot depends on what Pete’s 
able to do,” O’Sullivan said. “Does 
he DH? I’m assuming that he’ll be full-go. We’ve got some decisions to 
make but those are good decisions.”UF will need all of them this 
weekend. Missouri is second in the 
conference with a 2.70 team ERA, boasts the highest winning percent-
age of any SEC foe the Gators have 
faced and defeated No. 2 Texas 
A&M on the road last week.
Regardless of how UF’s lineup 
will look, if there was a series to en-
sure everyone’s health, it would be the one this weekend.
“Once we have all those pieces 
together, I think we’ll be an even better team than what we are now,” 
Martin said. “I don’t think we’ve 
played at our full capability yet, and 
hopefully that comes soon.”BASEBALL,  from pg 13Florida has strong offense; Missouri has formidable pitching staff
ity to not do anything for maybe 
a month or two at a time, and I come back and as soon as I do it 
once, it’s back completely.”
“I’m very eager to get out there 
and I’m very eager to show the 
world what I’ve been working 
on.”
With all of those things going 
for Florida, there really is no ex-cuse to have anything but a top-
notch result.
Sophomore Claire Boyce said 
the team expects nothing less this weekend.
“I feel like we’re one of the 
best teams in the country and if 
we do our best then we should be 
winning,” she said.
But she and Sloan both said 
the end result isn’t something 
they can think about while com-
peting.Instead, they need to focus ex-
clusively on themselves, allowing 
the results to come as a byprod-
uct.
“We just know that when we 
go into this competition, region-als, when we get there it’s just 
gonna be us,” Sloan said. “We 
always put ourselves in this little bubble. Rhonda always empha-sizes that.”
“When we walk into that area, 
it’s just us out there.” GYMNASTICS,  from pg13UF has advanced to NCAA Championships every year since 2000
Florida’s Competition Rotation
Uneven Parallel Bars (49.500 Regional Qualifying 
Score - Tied for 1st in the country)Balance Beam (49.360 RQS - Third in the country)Bye before Floor ExerciseFloor Exercise (49.505 RQS - Tied for second in the country)Vault (49.540  RQS - Tied for second in the country)Florida’s weekend schedule vs. Missouri
T oday: 7 p.m.
Starting Pitchers: Logan Shore (4-2, 1.89 ERA) vs. Reggie McClain (4-2, 2.25 ERA)
TV: SEC Network+
Saturday: 3 p.m.
Starting Pitchers: A.J. Puk (5-2, 4.20 ERA) vs. T anner Houck 
(4-1, 2.96 ERA)
TV:  SEC Network+
Sunday: 2 p.m.
Starting Pitchers: Dane Dunning (4-0, 2.38 ERA) vs. Peter 
Fairbanks (2-3, 2.39 ERA)TV:  SEC Network+16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 2015
Marley Boerema / Alligator
Senior Lauren Haeger pitches during Florida’s 2-1 win against North Florida on 
Wednesday at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. Haeger and the Gators begin a three-game home series against South Carolina today.
By Luis T orres
Alligator Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
Lauren Haeger is a mentor to the younger 
pitchers on Florida’s staff this season.
Haeger is the lone upperclassmen on the 
pitching staff, and she’s also the only one who has ever pitched against a South Carolina team.
Aleshia Ocasio and Delanie Gourley might be 
leaning on the senior for more advice this week-end when the No. 3 Gators (33-4, 5-4 Southeast-ern Conference) takes on the Gamecocks (26-12, 2-7 SEC) in a three-game series beginning today at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.  
It will be the first time since 2012 that the 
teams have played in Gainesville.
In her three-plus years at UF, Haeger has 
made two appearances in the circle against the South Carolina.
The first was in 2012 when she pitched five 
innings and earned the win. The other was in 2013 when she pitched four innings and got a no decision.
But Haeger has only gotten better in the circle 
as her career has progressed. Her spotless record of 15-0 this year reflects her progress as a pitch-er.
Haeger has logged a lot of innings recently, 
and coach Tim Walton doesn’t want to burn her out with a lot of the season left to be played.  
“We just don’t feel like we want to push 
her to the limit this early in the season,” Wal-ton said. “Going Sunday, Wednesday, Friday, Sunday, those kinds of things. So now we got a decision to make whether or not she can go again on Friday, or throw her the first game of the doubleheader on Saturday.”
South Carolina was swept by Texas A&M in 
its most recent SEC series, dropping all three games by a combined 12-7 score, but have since won its last five games by an overall 39-14 score. 
Two of those five games were run-rule vic-
tories.The Gamecocks have one of the top hitters in 
the conference in Alaynie Page, who is ninth in the SEC in batting average with a .438 clip. Page 
is also fourth in slugging percentage (.869) and 
third in hits (57).
As a team, South Carolina is hitting .298 
which ranks 10th in the conference and right be-hind Florida’s .303 batting clip.
Despite the low team numbers, Walton feels 
the Gamecocks have the potential to do some 
damage at the plate this weekend and the team 
has noticed what they’ve done.
“I think we’re going to see a good offense, 
they’ve been swinging the bat well. Good of-
fensive team. Right handed, left handed, got 
enough speed,” Walton said. “A good team, they 
beat Tennessee two out of three.
“We’ve just been kind of paying attention to 
what South Carolina is doing, knowing they’re 
coming up this weekend.”
In the circle, South Carolina has Nickie Blue, 
who ranks second in the conference with a 1.06 ERA. The sophomore will be joined by redshirt 
senior Julie Sarratt, who has previously pitched 
against the Gators in her career.
“I think we’re going to see a lot of the same 
kind of pitcher,” Walton said. “Sarratt is good and has done well against us. I think it’s Nickie 
Blue…right handed pitcher, sophomore throws 
pretty hard and firm.”  
After winning its last two SEC series, Walton 
wants Florida to keep it simple and keep playing its brand of softball.
“All in all, we just got to go out and do what 
we’re capable of doing and keep playing ball,” 
he said.   UF softball continues homestand 
with series versus South Carolina
Times and TV
T oday:  6 p.m. on SEC Network+
Saturday: 1 p.m. on SEC Network+
Saturday:  3:30 p.m. on SEC Network+