We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 167 TUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015
Previewing the UF volleyball season
The Gators reached the Elite Eight last season 
for the ﬁ  rst time since 2011 and returns all of its offensive starters, pg 14.
Where to go during “Homeless Week”
See our lists and tips, pg. 3
UF one of ﬁ  rst to participate in campus-safety 
initiative
UF is currently in the trial program, pg. 5Another Day, Another Shower
It rained again in Gainesville Monday, and 
forecasts expect showers for most of the week. See our photo story on pg. 8.
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org 
When her friend was shot about 
two weeks ago, Clara Edwards de-
cided to make a GoFundMe page to help cover his medical expenses.
As of press time, Edwards, 27, 
raised more than $16,000 for Cliff James Deyampert, who was para-lyzed from the waist down when his friend’s ex-boyfriend reportedly shot him July 25, according to a 
Gainesville Police Department re-
port.  Deyampert is now at UF Health Shands Hospital. Edwards said he doesn’t have health insurance.
Edwards, who is a bartender 
at Mother’s Pub and Grill, said she hopes to raise at least $100,000 to help Deyampert.
To do so, she and Deyampert’s 
friends planned two High Dive ben-eﬁ  ts called “Jammin for Cliff,” where all of the proceeds will be donated to Deyampert.
Both events, one on Tuesday and 
the other Aug. 27, will be held at High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave., and will feature live music. More than 
700 people said they will attend on 
Facebook.
“There’s just been an outpouring of support,” Edwards said.
Along with Chynna Masteller, Ed-
wards is promoting the GoFundMe page and beneﬁ  ts on social media sites like Facebook and Instagram. 
Masteller, 27, said everyone who 
has ever met Deyampert has a con-nection with him. With donations from friends, strangers and local businesses, Masteller said “we are facilitating so much love.”
“It’s kind of overwhelming, but 
it’s awesome,” she said.
She calls Deyampert driven, as he 
works at High Dive and Relish.Event T-shirts from the company 
Deyampert owns with his friend and roommate, Jack Samson, are avail-able. They are decorated with an illustration of Deyampert’s face sur-rounded by holistic healing stones. 
Samson designed the shirts, and 
100 percent of the money raised by them will go directly to Deyampert.
On the High Dive’s Facebook 
event page, it says: “(Cliff) invokes only the purest positive energy in ev-eryone he meets. You have won the lottery to have Cliffy in your life and corner.”
GoFundMe for local man raises more than $16K
By Karen Kacir
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Institute of Hispanic-La-
tino Cultures is nearing the ﬁ  nal 
stretch of its search for a new di-
rector.
The director of Hispanic-Lati-
no Affairs coordinates multicul-
tural and intercultural education 
programs for the campus com-
munity that educate and promote awareness, understanding and appreciation of diversity and mul-ticulturalism on campus.
On Wednesday and Friday, 
the institute hosted its series of interviews for potential directors.  The names of the directors have 
not yet been publically released.
On both days, each candidate 
gathered with stakeholders — 
students, faculty and administra-tors — in Peabody Hall to present on a topic of interest. Following the presentation, the day’s candi-
date retired to La Casita to meet 
with students only.
Each candidate gave a brief in-
troduction and ﬁ  elded questions 
that ranged from personal to po-
litical. Issues of particular interest to students included national so-cial justice concerns as well as lo-cal, campus-speciﬁ  c events, such 
as the opening of La Salita, the 
institute’s new Reitz Union space. 
The nomination committee, 
a group of six faculty and staff 
members as well as four student 
leaders, will make a recommen-dation to Mary Kay Schneider Carodine, the assistant vice presi-dent for Student Affairs.  La Casita search for 
new director nears end
RHETT IS DUE IN COURT FRIDAY.
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
ghall@alligator.org
Errict Rhett, Florida football’s career 
rushing leader, has been accused of ﬁ  ling 
fraudulent liens and conveying a fraudulent 
deed to avoid foreclosure on his Gainesville 
home.
According to documents obtained by the Alligator, Rhett purchased a home, located at 5328 NW 72nd St., in 2005 in the Wood-ﬁ  eld subdivision from former Florida foot-ball player Willie Jackson. 
In 2013, the Woodﬁ  eld Community As-
sociation alleged Rhett’s house was in de-plorable condition, violating the conditions and restrictions mandated by the subdivi-sion.
On March 9, Alachua County judge Vic-
tor Hulslander ordered Rhett pay the Wood-ﬁ  eld Community Association $69,169.75, including $64,522 in at-torneys’ fees, according to the documents. 
On the same day, Rhett 
ﬁ  led a pair of liens on the 
house — one valued at 
$127,000 from E. Rhett Construction, owned by Rhett, and one valued at 
$395,000 from Alco Construction Corp., owned by Rhett’s brother, Michael.
He also ﬁ  led a warranty deed — dated July 15, 2013, but ﬁ  led March 9 — transfer-ring the deed of the home from The Errict Rhett Foundation to E. Rhett Construction, according to the documents.
The Woodﬁ  eld Community Associa-
tion ﬁ  led a motion against The Errict Rhett Foundation on May 11 alleging the liens and warranty deed were invalid and di-recting the Alachua County Sheriff to sell 
Rhett’s house to pay the $69,169.75 sum 
owed.
Errict Rhett, Florida’s career rushing leader, accused of fraudSEE HISPANIC,  PAGE 4
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16CAMPUS
Rhett
Two fundraisers planned
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff 
Studying before the storm
Elba Chimilio (left), a 19-year-old UF electrical engineering sophomore, makes notes on a whiteboard at 
Marston Library on Monday. Ameala Allen, a 19-year-old UF biology sophomore, follows along.“There’s just been an 
outpouring of support.”
Clara Edwards
Friend of DeyampertSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 167
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Entries now accepted for 
ButterflyFest Facebook Photo 
Challenge The Florida Museum is hosting the third annual ButterflyFest 
Facebook Photo Challenge! 
Capture your best picture of wild-life and enter by 11:59 p.m. EDT on Aug. 31 for your chance to win prizes. Anyone, at any age, can enter this free challenge. The winning photographers will be recognized during ButterflyFest on Sept. 19. Email submissions to 
photo-office@flmnh.ufl.edu. For 
entry guidelines, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/butterflyfest/photography/how-enter.
Students receive free admission 
to Florida MuseumStudents with a valid Gator 1 Card receive free admission to the Butterfly Rainforest and other fee-based exhibits year round at the Florida Museum of Natural History, sponsored by UF Student Government. The museum is lo-cated at 3215 Hull Road just south 
of the Southwest Rec Center in 
the UF Cultural Plaza. The mu-seum is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday and from 1 to 5 p.m. on Sunday.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  84° LOW  73°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Grace Hudgins, Lindsey   
  Saucier, Elena Castello, Kristine Janata
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Serina Esquivel, Bailey Gaul, 
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Nadine Rae Saladino ,  
  Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel Lo
TUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Where to go during “Homeless Week”
 Airbnb, Inc.: Rent an extra room in someone’s house or share 
an entire house with some friends. Airbnb is reasonably priced 
and lets you sort through all kinds of ﬁ  lters. 
 Couchsurﬁ  ng Inc.:  Be careful with this one. Chances are you’ll 
end up at the home of some nice person who just wants to give a home to those in need of one. But trust your gut. Don’t go to some random creeper’s house if you get a bad feeling. Ask for their name and look up their criminal record ﬁ  rst. Best part of couch 
surfering? It’s free. 
 Extended Stay America:  Located at 3600 SW 42nd 
St., Extended Stay provides cozy rooms at reasonable prices. 
Typically, the prices get cheaper the more days you stay. Plus, they offer weekly rates. 
 Zen Hostel: Located at 404 SE Second St., this hostel is 
adorable and comes at a great price. Shared rooms are about $25 per night, while private rooms lean more toward $40 per night. 
 Need a dog-friendly place?  Most websites like Hotels.com 
and Expedia.com have pet-friendly ﬁ  lters. Same goes with Airbnb and Couchsurﬁ  ng. However, we strongly advise that you call and conﬁ  rm and make sure it’s not some sort of error on their website. Why do landlords end our leases even when we have a week of class left? Seriously, that’s some savagery. Unfortunately, 
we don’t have an answer to your question, but we hope these tips can help you secure a place to call home until school is out. 
Lauren Johnson / Alligator Staff4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015
NATIONALBy Luisa Guaracao
Alligator Contributing Writer 
When Troy Bryant and Sean Lyons were 
first year engineering students at UF, they 
joked about being senior design partners and having the best project.
Five years later, to their disbelief, both of 
those visions came true. On July 27, Bryant and Lyons, two recent UF graduates, won first place in the annual Texas Instruments Innova-tion Challenge for their project, Seven Deadly Synths: a non-contact synthesizer.
Yet, they were not the only gators at the 
winner’s circle. UF’s Jordan Street, who re-ceived third place for his project Hercules Au-topilot, was present as well. 
This year, 300 teams from across the U.S., 
Canada and Mexico submitted their projects online to the competition, according to a press release. The top three finalist teams, two of which were from UF, were invited to Dallas, 
Texas, to showcase their projects in the finals.  
The idea behind Seven Deadly Synths 
was to create a musical instrument that could 
be played by anyone regardless of skill. The thought first emerged when Lyons and Bryant were juniors, but they did not start developing 
it until last semester in their senior year when 
they began taking design.  
As musicians themselves, Bryant and Ly-
ons, who were part of a band in high school called Rush of Reality, realized that in order to play an instrument, advanced motor skills were required.
“Playing a chord on the guitar is like do-
ing gymnastics with your fingers,” said Lyons, 
who’s been playing the guitar for more than 
seven years now.
Fueled by their passion for music and elec-
tronics, the two electrical engineering students challenged themselves to create a musical de-vice that could be operated without advanced motor skills.
The outcome was a synthesizer instrument, 
made out of 35 Texas Instruments components, 
which could be operated using basic motions, 
such as the wave of a hand, Bryant said.
The device used infrared sensors to detect 
motion, allowing it to play different notes based on the location of a hand. It specifically benefits disabled musicians who have lost the fine motor skills needed to play an instrument.
“The beauty of creating music is something that should be accessible to anyone,” Lyons 
said. “If (our instrument) could give one per-
son music, it’ll all be worth it.”
The team spent about 60 hours a week 
working on the device for five months. Origi-nally, the project was just supposed to be for their senior design class, but they were encour-aged by faculty members to enter the contest, so they did. However, they never imagined they would win first place.
“We honestly never thought that we would 
be this far or even reach this big of an accom-
plishment,” Bryant said. “It’s still kind of sur-
real.”
As first place winners, the team received 
$10,000. Lyons, who was a first-generation college student, plans to use his share of the money to pay off his student loans.
“It really has changed my life,” he said. “I 
would be paying these loans a lot longer if we hadn’t won.”
Street, the third place winner, received 
$5,000 for his project, the Hercules Autopilot. The former graduate student’s project was a more complex version of his senior design project, Gator Pilot, which received first place 
in UF’s design competition last year.
The Hercules Autopilot is a full-flight con-
trol system that allows unmanned aerial ve-
hicles to fly an autonomous path, Street said. It is specifically designed for quadrotors, which are helicopters that are lifted by four propel-lers, or rotors.
The device has multiple applications. From 
performing search and rescue missions to al-
lowing architects to survey construction sites 
from above, it can perform an array of tasks with precision.
“Let’s say you have some sort of natural di-
saster, and you have people that need medica-tion, and you can’t really get to them through a car,” Street said. “This gives you the ability to fly in whatever you need without having the overhead cost of a large helicopter or another 
vehicle like that.”
Contrary to popular belief, the project was 
not named after the classic Disney movie, 
though Street admits that it is a great movie. Hercules, in this case, is the codename for the main processor that runs all the flight algo-rithms. 
“That’s what runs all the software that 
makes everything possible,” Street said. “So I 
kind of used that in coming up with the name 
of the project.”
UF engineers place in Texas Instruments design challenge 
By The Associated Press
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) — 
A “paramilitary response” by po-lice in New Mexico unnecessarily escalated an encounter last year that ended when two officers un-
lawfully opened fire and killed a 
homeless man despite signs that he wanted to surrender, a special prosecutor said Monday.
The two Albuquerque officers 
charged with murder in the death of James Boyd came to the scene with the intent of attacking him, Special Prosecutor Randi McGinn 
asserted at a preliminary hearing to 
decide if the officers should stand trial.
“What was the crime that 
prompted this paramilitary re-sponse? It was not a terrorist act. It was illegal camping,” McGinn said 
during his opening statement at 
the hearing for Officer Dominique Perez and former Detective Keith Sandy.
In their opening statements, 
defense attorneys said their clients did nothing wrong and both felt the lives of their fellow officers were in danger.
The prosecutor said the shoot-
ing occurred after 19 officers armed 
with a total of more than 700 
rounds of ammunition surrounded Boyd for camping illegally in the foothills of the Sandia Mountains.
Boyd, 38, suffered from para-
noid schizophrenia, had two pock-et knives and was gathering his belongings when Perez and Sandy fired three rounds each, McGinn 
said.
“They created the danger. It was 
not Mr. Boyd who came at them,” McGinn told the judge at the hear-
ing expected to last a week.
Boyd was shot during the 
March 2014 standoff and later died at a hospital after his arm was am-putated.
Video of the encounter showed 
him appearing to surrender before Perez and Sandy opened fire. Au-thorities have said he threatened officers with the two knives.
The shooting generated angry 
protests around Albuquerque that closed City Hall and sparked a cy-berattack on city websites.
Boyd’s death came amid a wave 
of police shootings in Albuquerque and just before the U.S. Justice De-partment issued a harsh report into use of excessive force by the Albu-querque Police Department.
There have been more than 40 
police shootings in Albuquerque since 2010.
A federal judge recently ap-
proved an agreement between the city and the Justice Department to revamp police policies and assign a federal monitor to make sure changes are made.
Albuquerque Police Chief Gor-
den Eden testified at Monday’s hearing that all officers were trained on the department’s use of 
force policies.
However, under cross-examina-
tion, he said officers should follow 
the law instead of the policies in case of a conflict.
Eden had been in the job less 
than two weeks at the time of the Boyd shooting.
Both sides also replayed a num-
ber of video clips from the standoff and the shooting to show how of-ficers were responding to Boyd.Prosecutor: Police of-
ficers unlawfully fire
Carmen Lopez-Ramirez, an am-
bassador at the institute, said that 
historically, nominations by the 
search committee are accepted, 
although Carodine does have the final say.
The committee made its recom-
mendation on Monday, but Caro-dine will run reference checks on each candidate before coming to a final decision.Both students and stakeholders 
were allowed to rate candidates on factors such as effective communi-cation, passion for justice and ad-vocacy, passion for diversity, and community awareness. The com-
mittee made its suggestion to Caro-
dine based on these ratings, as well as upon their own observations.
“What’s your gut feeling?” 
Lopez-Ramirez asked attendees Wednesday, after the candidate had excused himself from La Ca-sita so that students could discuss. Members of the audience were free 
to express approval or concern. 
Divya Jolly and Kimberly Ri-
vera attended Wednesday to rep-
resent the office of LGBT Affairs.  As members of a multicultural and 
diversity affairs organization, Ri-
vera said she was invested in the Hispanic-Latino Cultures Institute’s effort to find a suitable director.
“It’s really important for us to 
show support and know who we’ll be working with in the future,” Ri-vera said. 
HISPANIC,  from pg 1Members discuss candidates, issuesDanielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Help in high places
Marvin Rogers (left), 65, informs Katie Kearney, a 22-year-old UF biology graduate, about the best 
trails at Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park on Monday at the top of the observation tower.  
Team took home first place
“Playing a chord on the guitar is like 
doing gymnastics with your fingers.”
Sean Lyons
UF graduateTUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
UF IS CURRENTL Y IN THE TRIAL 
PROGRAM.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer            
mgomez@alligator.org
Starting Aug. 13, UF will become one of the 
ﬁ  rst universities in the nation to take a step to-
ward building a safer campus.
UF participated in the trial program of 32 
National Campus Safety Initiative, an initiative 
funded by the VTV Family Foundation, victims 
and survivors of the Virginia Tech shooting in April 2007 where 32 people were shot and killed.
As a result, the VTV Family Foundation 
was founded and is now coming together to keep another shooting on campus from hap-pening again.
The initiative is an online self-assessment 
survey that covers nine topics to help schools ﬁ  nd out where additional resources can be added, said Jen Day Shaw, associate vice presi-dent and dean of students at UF.
You think about the families who lost their 
kids, sisters or brothers, Day Shaw said. They want to help increase campus safety so no fam-ily has to go through that ever again.
“You can’t tackle everything at once, but 
you can prioritize what you want to tackle ﬁ  rst,” Day Shaw said. For UF, campus safety is a priority, she added.
The nine areas of concern are: alcohol and 
other drugs, campus public safety, emergency management, hazing, missing students, physi-cal security, sexual violence, threat assessment and mental health.
“It’s a tremendous opportunity to advance 
campus safety,” said S. Daniel Carter, proj-ect director of the initiative. The series of 250 questions will be covered by the expert of each ﬁ  eld.
An institution that participates in the pro-
grams shows it’s willing to take that step to-ward creating a safer place for students, Carter said.
A college’s or university’s participation is 
conﬁ  dential, but schools can choose to an-nounce their involvement, he added. UF, be-ing one of the seven schools in the trial pro-gram, chose to be one of the ﬁ  rst universities to launch the program.
“Campuses across the country are going to 
be safer,” Carter said, “and UF is leading the way.”
UF one of ﬁ  rst to participate in campus-safety initiative
CAMPUS
By Ramon Peña
Alligator Contributing Writer
A voting program focused on accessibility devel-
oped by a team now at UF is being awarded by the 
Knight Foundation as part of its $3.2 million Knight News Challenge.
The challenge seeks to reward those with inno-
vative ways to provide voters with better informa-tion and increase participation before, during and after elections.
Prime III, the UF program, provides voters with 
the ability to use a touchscreen, voice commands or a button switch along with constant narration. The result is an all-purpose voting system that could change the way voting is done, making sure it doesn’t discriminate against disabilities.
“People have died in this country for the right 
to vote,” said Juan Gilbert, a UF professor and the founder of the program. “Our election, our democ-racy is at the very fabric of this country. It’s our right to vote.”
Normally, there is a voting station set aside for 
people with disabilities such as blindness or deaf-ness. The idea behind the Prime III system, Gilbert said, was that everyone would vote on the same machine, no matter their disabilities. This would re-move the need for special voting stations.
Also a result would be a rise in voter participa-
tion, particularly among the disabled, said Law-rence Kenny, a UF business professor and specialist in election turnouts.
The main goals of the program are to make vot-
ing more accessible, secure and useable by every-one. It was just conventional wisdom, Gilbert said.
Now, with the $35,000 from the Knight Founda-
tion, the project is moving to become open source, which means that it would be freely available for download and use. The team is looking to release the open-source program in September, although there is no set date.
“We decided to make Prime III because we 
wanted to ‘change the world’, that’s our lab mot-to,” wrote Naja Mack, 26, a  UF graduate student 
in human-centered computing and a member of the 
team, in an email.
Prime III has been tested and approved by a 
very large population of voters, Mack said. Pilot op-erations continue to be run out of states like New Hampshire, Oregon and Wisconsin.
Originally started in 2003 by Gilbert and his re-
search team, Prime III is the latest incarnation of the accessible voting project. Before, it was a stand-alone program, but now it can run on HTML, mean-ing it can be accessed through a Web page.
Looking to the future, the program is also look-
ing to release in other languages and continuously improve, Gilbert said.
“It’s a game changer,” he said. “It will make vot-
ing more accessible to people with disabilities, it will make voting more accurate, it will make voting more affordable for the state.”UF group receives funding for 
voting accessibility project
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff 
Lana, a 4-month-old black lab mix, pants while out on a walk on Sta-
dium Road on Monday alongside her owner Kyle Burnett, a 20-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology junior.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnStudents entering 
homeless week 
struggle, but have 
strength
Ah, the last days of the Summer semester are upon those 
among us still attending, and we now stand upon the precipice of a difficult time for some students. I’m not referring to the distinct lack of sunshine over the past week, nor do I speak lightly of nights many will spend 
studying for their finals or finishing their final projects.
I speak of a phenomenon which will afflict students as their 
apartment leases end, their contracts reach their limits and the many students who call Gainesville home enter “homeless week.”
It’s a desperate time period between the end of an apartment 
lease at one location and the beginning of another lease else-where. Most students will likely head back to their family homes for the transition or else leave their belongings in a storage con-tainer while they head off to a vacation far and abroad from such 
concerns. 
But for other students, whether they live far out of state or 
country, work jobs in town or have simply attempted to strike 
out as independents, they’re left with an awkward period of time wherein they can be definitionally homeless.
Most will likely “couch surf” or stay at the abodes of their 
friends as the time passes, possibly packing their property tetris-style into the trunk of cars or renting a storage unit. But nonethe-less, the time served is a rare reminder of the fragility of a college existence.
We and our families will spend thousands of dollars on tu-
ition, textbooks, housing and more to get through college. We of-
ten forget that the sheer amount of money most college students 
receive from their parents and scholarships would be almost im-possible for a child straight out of high school to achieve through work alone. 
The wages and income of your average student would find 
most of us standing below the poverty line and probably eligible for food stamps if we went through the official channels. 
It’s thoughts such as this that leave many students near gradu-
ation reluctant or nervous about leaving the academic environ-
ment. After years of living as a dependent, not everyone is imme-
diately certain as to how to function as a productive member of society, fully educated and supposedly ready to tackle the world.
But frankly, it’s not quite as uncertain as you may fear. Think 
about it: The only reason you’ve got those scholarships in the first place is because you made your efforts to keep the academics up. You’re already used to advancing upon your efforts, and as another semester draws to a close, you can expect your ambitions to keep you afloat.
Conservatives taking on a war against abortion
Taking the war on women to the next 
step, conservatives are pushing for low-income women to be denied healthcare. 
Working based off of false informa-
tion and videos released by anti-abortion 
group center for Medical Progress, Republicans 
are seeking to defund Planned Parenthood.
The organization provides accessible and af-
fordable women’s health services.    
Planned Parenthood is only able to use fed-
eral funds for abortion in cases of rape, incest or danger 
to the life of the mother.
But defunding them would be potentially disastrous 
for millions of women who go to Planned Parenthood for 
their health care and would mean a loss for medical re-
search.
Although President Barack Obama’s health care law 
has definitely increased the amount of people who have 
insurance, many women might be unable to claim their birth control on their insurance, especially if they are un-
derage or still on their parent’s insurance. 
Only 3 percent of Planned Parenthood’s services are 
abortions. 
Defunding Planned Parenthood would mean denying 
many women cancer screenings, STI treatments and tests, 
and contraception.   
Many were shocked about the videos released by the 
Center for Medical Progress. 
Conservatives have used this to fuel a new crusade 
against abortion. 
But the videos were selectively edited to portray 
Planned Parenthood in the worst possible light. 
Watching the full video reveals that fetal organs and 
tissues were not sold, but that Planned Parenthood was compensated for the transportation costs, which is en-tirely legal. 
Conservatives are using false allegations to impose their ideology at the expense of women’s health care and medical research. 
Fetal organs that are the result of legal abor-
tions should be able to be used in medical re-search in the same way that cadavers are used. 
In fact, it’s with this logic that legislators 
throughout the ‘90s agreed to allow fetal tissue 
research. 
Conservatives know that a ban on abortion 
is not feasible at the national level. 
So conservatives have resorted to going around Roe 
v. Wade in any way possible and this is just the latest example. 
At the state level, Republicans have tried everything 
from requiring admitting privileges at local hospitals to 
waiting periods to make it harder for low-income women 
to get safe abortions. 
While the right wing often mocks the idea of a “war on 
women,” this shows that it is still alive and well. 
The state of abortion rights is so fragile in this country 
that it’s irresponsible to give validity to the videos that were released. 
The presence of “crisis pregnancy centers” only adds 
to the confusion. 
Planned Parenthood is a name women can trust know-
ing that they won’t be tricked or shamed out of having an 
abortion or taking birth control.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her 
column appears on Tuesdays.
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org“After years of living as a dependent, 
not everyone is immediately certain as to 
how to function as a productive member 
of society, fully educated and supposedly 
ready to tackle the world.”
“Defunding Planned Parenthood 
would mean denying many women 
cancer screenings, STI treatments and 
tests, and contraception.”TUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Critics of President Barack Obama’s de-
cision to restore diplomatic — and po-tentially trade — relations with Cuba claim the small island country poses a threat to the United States’ national 
security.
For years, the U.S. Department of State des-
ignated Cuba as a State Sponsor of Terrorism 
until the Obama administration recently rec-ommended Cuba’s removal from the list. Cuba 
complied with all requirements for rescission 
— it has not provided any support for interna-tional terrorism within the past six months and has assured the administration that it will not support acts of international terrorism in the fu-ture. Cuba’s promises of compliance still have skeptics critical of the renewed relationship. 
Criticisms of Obama’s decision to recon-
cile with Cuba rest on the misconceptions of 
Cuba’s global and regional inﬂ  uence. Cuba’s 
geographic proximity to the U.S. has fostered a climate of fear, but the perceived Cuban threat is unlikely to have an adverse impact.
Myth 1. Cuba is a prominent 
narcotics trafﬁ  cker in the Carib-
bean.
Ortelio Bacallao, a former em-
ployee for Cuba’s Ministry of the In-
terior, accused high-ranking Cuban ofﬁ  cials of involvement in drug traf-ﬁ  cking. Bacallao even admitted to participating in four drug-trafﬁ  cking operations under direct orders of his supervisors. Bacal-lao’s allegations strongly imply that the Cuban 
government is an active participant in the Ca-
ribbean drug trade; Bacallao’s accusations have not yet been conﬁ  rmed by the appropriate au-thorities. Regardless, the U.S. reports that Cuba is not a major consumer, producer or transit point for illegal drugs. Colombia, Honduras and Mexico run bigger drug-trafﬁ  cking operations and, therefore, pose greater threats to U.S. eco-nomic interests and citizens’ safety. 
Myth 2. Cuba’s relationship 
with Russia is a threat to U.S. in-telligence.
The country’s proximity to the 
U.S. provides ample opportunities for anti-American states to gather intelligence on U.S. activities. Some Americans fear Cuba may export U.S. state secrets to the highest bid-der. As Cuba’s historic ally, critics 
claim, Russia may use Cuba as a resource to undermine U.S. operations as it did during the Cold War. Russia is still one of Cuba’s most im-
portant allies, however the countries’ historic 
relationship has changed; it is based less on their shared Communist ideology and is a more pragmatic alliance. 
Myth 3. The shipment of weapons to 
North Korea signals Cuba’s alliance with a radical regime. 
In 2013, the North Korean ship Chong Chon Gang traveling home from Cuba was stopped in Panama. Ofﬁ  cials found warplanes, missiles and other Cuban weapons hidden underneath tons of brown sugar in the ship’s cargo hold; allegedly, Cuba sent the shipment of outdated 
technology to North Korea for repairs. 
Regardless of Cuba’s motivation, the ship-
ment of these weapons violated international 
sanctions against North Korea. Cuba’s impov-erished economy is the source for the country’s troubled business decisions. If the U.S. nor-malizes economic relations with Cuba, then the country will have less motivation to trafﬁ  c weapons to radical regimes, like North Korea. 
Strict embargoes on the Cuban economy force 
the country’s government to export its goods to the highest bidder, regardless of political con-sequences. 
Amy Kunert writes for Old Gold & Black, 
the student newspaper at Wake Forest Uni-versity. A version of this column appeared on UWire.
Three Myths Surrounding the Reestablishment of U.S.-Cuban RelationsUWire
Amy Kunert
UWire8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015
Another Day, Another Storm
Photos by Jordan McPherson and  Andres Leiva
TOP LEFT
Three people walk on Turlington Plaza during Monday afternoon’s 
shower.
TOP RIGHT
In a long-exposure photograph, a group of UF students walk across Turlington Plaza as an afternoon shower ends.
BOTTOM RIGHT
In this long exposure photograph, a van drives down the West Uni-versity Avenue pavement slick with rain Monday evening.
As the Summer semester begins 
to wind down at UF, “Rainsville” kept true to its nickname on Monday, with showers occurring throughout the day and the city being put on a ﬂ  ood watch throughout the night. The Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce posted a warning on social media Monday night advising residents to not travel unless it’s absolutely necessary during the storm. 
And the stormy days are 
expected to continue. With the exception of Wednesday and Thursday, there is at least a 40 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms for the rest of the week, according to the Weather Channel as of press time.
WEATHER SAFETY TIPS
 When there are thunderstorms, stay indoors. Find shelter — a house, ofﬁ  ce, shopping center or hard-top car, to name a few — and remain there until the storm subsides.
 While indoors, avoid electronic equipment, windows and concrete. T o ensure electronic equipment is not ruined, use surge protectors throughout the house.
 If you cannot make it indoors, avoid standing in groups and stay away from tall 
structures.
Source: CDCTUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
PRESIDENT
FUCHS
IN THE ALLIGATOR ON AUGUST 17
Read his latest column on  
the people, places, and issues 
of the University of Florida.
@PresidentFuchsL
Gainesville Throwbacks
Aug. 8, 1969: Playboy 
Magazine deemed UF deserv-
ing of high rankings for more 
than just its academics. In a 
study involving 25 universities across the country, the maga-zine placed UF at the top of its list for sexual permissiveness. 
Playboy’s rankings are based 
on a “number of variables, some tangible (dorm hours, availability of women on and off campus, etc.) and some 
intangible (mood of the stu-
dents, atmosphere generated by the faculty, etc).” Notre Dame ranked last, with the article describing its male stu-
dents as “hale and horny.”Aug. 5, 1986:  The Alli-
gator sues Shands Hospital, 
claiming the hospital has been 
violating Florida’s Sunshine 
Law and public records law for seven years. Shands denied requests from the Alligator to 
let reporters cover its board of 
directors meetings and look at records because it says Shands is a private institution. “These folks are getting state money, 
they’re on state land,” said 
Joshua Weinstein, then-editor of the Alligator.
Aug. 5, 1997: Two months 
after announcing a computer literacy graduation require-ment, UF is now providing free basic computer access to 
all UF students. The service, 
called GatorLink, gives all UF students a free email account and up to 10 hours of free di-
al-up Internet access a month, 
with additional time available for an hourly charge. Fran McDonell, manager of the UF Computing Help desk, said the 
main idea for GatorLink is to 
give everyone on campus an email. A connection to the In-ternet is required to access the 
e-mail. “Anywhere you have 
an Internet connection, you can access these services,” McDonell said.
— Ariana Figueroa 
and Jordan McPherson
Alligator ﬁ  le photo
After a collision at the corner of West University Avenue and 12th Street, a man is loaded into an ambulance in this Aug. 4, 
2009, ﬁ  le photo. His green Miata was struck by a maroon Audi after he attempted to make a left onto 12th Street.
TUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,
Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    8-6-15-8-1
Countryside 4000 SW 23rd St, Furnished,  pool view,  bus lines 9 & 35, $385/room/mo. Yr lease, $250 dep, $150 elec allow. Cable & Internet incl, studious-nonsmoking. Not a party place. No pets. Bonus avail. for bring -
ing roommates. 4 rooms avail (1 now & 3 Aug 4th). Call 941 661 0462 lv. msg    8-17-15-7-1
DONT LIVE AT THE WRONG PLACE
Countryside at the University
4000 SW 23rd St.
4BR/4BA. Excellence for student achieve -
ment at UF. Individual lease. $395.
Call for details Bristol Park Realty
Phone 352-367-2669 or 
bristolparkmanagement.com
All applications in person
rich@bristolparkrealty.com
8-28-15-11-1
Fully Renovated 4/2 Apartments
@ University Commons $449/room. Includes new kitchen appliances, granite counter tops, porcelain tile, new furniture, cable, internet, and utilities. Call Tony at 352-284-3131    8-6-15-5-1Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATION
Fall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
2/2 &4/3 apt homes. Starting at $1175. 
Parking included. Walking distance to UF & 
Stadium. Now leasing for Fall.
For info call 352-872-4644
www.alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
8-17-15-12-2
5 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak 
floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard 
in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-25BR/3BA HOUSE Near Law School
Tile floors, big yard. Avail Aug 1st. $1800/mo. 
Call 352-258-0025    8-4-15-4-2
Avail 4 bdrm Houses/Rooms!
Rent House or Room2635 W Univ $1500305 NW 28th $1800call Eric 352-6827424     8-17-15-5-2
Units for Rent, Near UF
● 3/2 house, 1-mile to Law School $975/mon
● 2 /2.5 in Casablanca $750/mon
Classic Prop of N FL, Inc / 352-331-2100     
8-24-15-5-2    
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Looking for college student or young profes-sional to share furn. 2BR/2BA, 2 story condo (Woods Edge) Quiet complex on residential St.between Mall & UF $500/mo + Util. Avail. Aug. 1 Text 352-281-1891 or 352-262-2248 8-4-15-5-4
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1ST1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   8-28-15-7-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
Secluded Alachua home, 2000, 8.9 acres, 
3br/2ba 2440SF, well/septic, open plan, darkwd fireplace, vaulted ceiling, storage, pasture, con-venient to Gville, springs! $286,500 NEG Exit Realty Producers Sue Paper 301-806-8935   8-25-15-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-17-15-14-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 ComputersTUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11Scooter for Sale, Still under warranty.  You 
need a motorcycle license. $1,000. Comes 
with cover and lock. Text or call after 6pm 
352-219-8190                8-25-15-4-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
DELIVERY DRIVER
The Independent Florida Alliagtor is looking 
for a VERY DEPENDABLE route driver
Early morning route, five days per week*
Starting in August 2015
(*Publication days vary according to the 
University of Florida class schedule.)
Applicant must have reliable transportation 
and be able to transport
multiple bundles of newpapers.
The route takes approximately 2 hours and 
includes drops along Newberry Road west 
to Jonesville, Tower Road, and along SW 
20th Ave. as well as some on Archer Road
Please inquire and apply in person at
1105 West University Avenue.
Monday through Friday
between 8am & 4pm.
No calls please.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-17-15-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
1. Who holds the rookie record for 
most RBIs in a season, and who is No. 
2?
2. Name the last Baltimore Orioles 
pitcher before Bud Norris in 2014 to 
beat the New York Yankees four times in a season.  
3. In 2014, Denver’s Peyton Man-
ning became the third quarterback to take two franchises to the Super Bowl. Who were the first two?
4. Name the last men’s basketball 
team before Wichita State in 2013-14 to start a season 30-0?
5. When was the last time before 
2015 that both the San Jose Sharks and the Los Angeles Kings failed to make the NHL playoffs in the same season?
6. Which goaltender had played in 
the most career World Cup games for the U.S. men’s soccer team before Tim Howard set the record with eight in 2014?
7. Two horses in the 1930s suffered 
injuries and did not run in the Belmont Stakes after winning the first two legs of the Triple Crown. Name either one.
Answers:
1. No. 1 is Boston’s Ted Williams, 
with 145 RBIs in 1939. No. 2 is Walt Dropo, also with Boston, with 144 in 1950.
2. Mike Flanagan, in 1978.3. Craig Morton (Dallas and Den-
ver) and Kurt Warner (St. Louis and Arizona).
4. UNLV , in the 1990-91 season.5. It was 2003.6. Tony Meola, with seven.7. Burgoo King in 1932 and Bold 
Venture in 1936.
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 3, 2015 King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Gestational Surrogate Needed
to carry our embryo, no egg or sperm dona -
tion required. 1 yr living expenses covered. Text for additional information 305-582-9800    
8-28-15-24-14
DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, withgood customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
Wanted. Energetic, hard working fitness mind-
ed individual to sell high quality merchandise at Gainesville's longest standing  (39 years and counting) LOCAL Sporting Goods store. Apply in person only, full or part time position will be entertained for the right individual. Lloyd Clarke Sports  1504 NW 13th St    8-25-15-10-14
Gator Dining Serviceslocated on the University of Florida Campus, is now hiring  part-time cashiers, baristas, line cooks, servers and utility positions for the Fall Semester. We over flexible sched-ules, competitive pay, and a great working environment. Those interested in joining this dynamic team can apply on line at www.ga-tordining.com, no paper application are ac-cepted. EEO/Drug free Workplace.
Aramark is an EQUAL EMPLOYMENT 
OPPORTUNITY/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION employer. Candidates are considered for employment with Aramark without regard to their race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, gender, pregnancy, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic informa-tion, military status, protected veteran status or other classification protected by applica -
ble federal, state or local law    8-17-15-9-14
Chef/Cook Wanted.
Looking for a cook to work 9-5 Monday through Friday. For more information please email gainesvillecook@gmail.com    8-17-15-5-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible Hours!
Positions Available:
Event Supervisor, Warehouse Staff, Cook
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
8-17-15-5-14
JANITORIAL WORK3:30 pm - 6:30 pm   Mon thru FriMust have experience, pass background check, work well with others. Send resume via fax 352-373-6012 or email info@allcleanfl.com    8-24-15-5-14
Office Ass't-F/T One of these Passions-FX Show Justified/health&fitness/TedTalks. Rhonda Rousey follower, non stalker a plus. Excellent writing skills, Love to read, Math interest. 1 yr+ commitment. paulsrothstein@gmail.com 8-25-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-15-25-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-15-25-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service24 hrs a day. Reservations available.Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love Sherlockians
interested in joining with others so inclined 
in a new, online scion society, please send 
email ASAP to ceb221b@gmail.com.    9-1-
15-15-19
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!
Rated 5-Star on Google Play!
Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
RED'S TAVERN Mo.-Free Pool, Tu.-Bike 
Night, Wed.-Ladies Night, Th.-Men's Night, 
Fr.-Karaoke, Sa.-Open Mike Su.-Free Pool/$1 
PBR Drafts Get 1 free House draft w/ Student 
ID. HWY 27 Ft White 352-339-6978 8-17-5-
21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
23 Rides 19 Connections 15 Services 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedHeadline
Story description Pg#TUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida's volleyball team opens 
the season on Aug. 29 against James Madison. Read our season preview on pg. 14. Vote online
Cast your vote for UF's Best Female Athlete online at www.alligator.org/sportsFlorida soccer ranked No. 8 in preseason poll
The UF soccer team starts the 2015 season ranked No. 8 on the National 
Soccer Coaches Assocation of America Preseason Rankings. In the 21-year history of the soccer team, this is the program's 19th consecutive appearance in the NSCAA preseason poll. ALLIGATOR AWARDS
The Alligator Awards continue 
this week, with the sixth award be-
ing for “Best Female Athlete.” Editor-in-chief Jordan McPherson and staff writer Ian Cohen join alligatorSports editors Graham Hall, Luis Torres and Graham Hack in a roundtable discussion to debate the ﬁ  ve nomi-nees. Debates will go in alphabetical order by the writer’s last name.
Cohen: Rhamat excels as 
freshman
What hasn’t been said about Rha-
mat Alhassan?
At 6-foot-4, she’s the tallest player 
in the history of Florida’s volleyball 
program. She’s also the youngest of 
the ﬁ  ve nominees for best female 
athlete, and arguably the most tran-
scendent. 
Her length and athleticism gave 
the Gators’ frontline a much-needed boost in 2014, and along with being 
named the Southeastern Conference 
Freshman of the Year, Alhassan 
led the nation in hitting percentage 
(.458). She was one of only two 
freshmen ranked in the top-10.
But of all Alhassan’s measur-
ables, the one that stands out is her 
age. She’s just a freshman, which 
may hurt her in the race for UF’s best 
female athlete, but it shouldn’t. In 
her ﬁ  rst year, she became one of the SEC’s best middle blockers, leading all players in hitting percentage, ﬁ  n-
ishing second in blocks per set (1.32) 
and 11th in points per set (3.53).
Entering her fourth year playing 
volleyball, Alhassan still has plenty of time to improve — a scary propo-
sition, considering how much she learned in just one year at UF.
After a tremendous ﬁ  rst season, 
coach Mary Wise and the rest of Florida’s staff thinks Alhassan can develop into one of the nation’s most dominant players.
Hack: Hunter dominates in 
senior seasonKytra Hunter’s 2015 season 
would have been career-deﬁ  ning at any age. But for her to accomplish all she did as a senior was nothing short of phenomenal.
In a sport where athletes’ bodies 
often break down late in their ca-reers, leading to diminished produc-tion and missed time, Hunter com-peted in every event of every meet during her senior season — quite successfully, too.
She was named the Southeastern 
Conference Gymnast of the Year and became the NCAA all-around cham-pion for a second time and ﬂ  oor champion for the ﬁ  rst time.
She also took home the Honda 
Award as the top collegiate gymnast in the country, becoming the ﬁ  rst Gator to win the award twice — she also won it in her freshman year.Simply put, she dominated week 
after week, refusing to allow coach Rhonda Faehn to rest her, even dur-ing competitions when the team could have afforded to do so.
But maybe more impressive was 
the leadership the senior exhibited during the season. Known as a qui-et teammate during meets prior to 2015, Hunter broke out of her shell to rally the team during a turbulent regular season while vocal leader Bridget Sloan recovered from a sprained ankle. Her presence during the difﬁ  cult ﬁ  rst half of the year was one of the primary reasons Florida was in position to compete for its third-consecutive NCAA crown.
Hall: Dagostino becomes 
vocal leader
Mackenzie Dagostino is every-
thing a team could want in a leader, and she has the competitive drive and athleticism to dominate next 
season.
In her ﬁ  rst year as a starter for the 
Gators, Dagostino shined as the set-
ter on a dominant Florida volleyball team. The Tampa native transferred to UF from Maryland in 2013 to be closer to home, and immediately be-came comfortable and conﬁ  dent in the role. 
As setter, Dagostino would direct 
her teammates on the ﬂ  oor and tell them how to play. Her competitive-ness erased any notion of a learning curve, and her 32-inch vertical elimi-nated any questions about whether Who was the Best Female Athlete at Florida in 2014-15? 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kytra Hunter performs her ﬂ  oor routine during the Southeastern Conference Championships on March 21 at the Arena at Gwinnett Center, in Duluth, Georgia. Hunter scored a 9.975 on the event. 
INSTAGRAHAM
With the Florida football team 
opening Fall camp on Aug. 6, 
coaches will get their ﬁ  rst look at the newest Gators arriving on campus from the 2015 recruiting 
class. Here’s a list of ﬁ  ve freshmen 
who could start from the beginning for UF.
 
1. Martez Ivey — It’s no 
secret that Florida’s offensive line lacks game experience, but UF’s future looks brighter with the addition of Martez Ivey, the No. 1 offensive tackle in the 2015 recruiting 
class according to Rivals.com. The Apopka 
native helped lead his team to an 11-4 re-cord last season that ended with a victory in the Florida Class 8A state championship game. Ivey became close with UF offensive line coach Mike Summers early in the process, and their strong rela-tionship paired with the wealth of potential playing time helped the Gators land his commitment.
With UF returning just eight 
scholarship offensive linemen from last season, Ivey has a realistic pos-sibility at starting at the left tackle position on Sept. 5.
2. CeCe Jefferson — Like 
Ivey, Jefferson’s decision came down to Au-burn and Florida and he elected to stay in his home state. But the process was something to remember. Former defensive line coach Trent 
Williams departed after signing day for the 
Miami Dolphins, causing Jefferson to report-edly reconsider his college decision. But UF Five UF football freshmen to watch
By The Associated Press
The Jacksonville Jaguars are one of the 
NFL’s youngest teams — again.
Coach Gus Bradley could have two rook-
ies, eight second-year players and four third-
year pros in his starting lineup. And those are conservative estimates.
The team’s youth and inexperience sure-
ly will be a story line this season. But don’t expect players and coaches to engage in the conversation.
“Last year maybe some would say that 
we were young,” Bradley said. “We can’t say that this year. I think we have some youth, but it’s the right amount of youth. ... My hope is that (age is) not a topic of con-versation this year. I don’t believe it should be because we do have some more experi-ence.”
The Jaguars, who have won just seven 
games in Bradley’s two seasons, were essen-tially an expansion team in 2013. They had a roster ﬁ  lled with rookies, castoffs and stop-gap starters — the start of general manager Dave Caldwell’s rebuilding effort. The roster was slightly more settled last year, but 10 different rookies started at least one game and six of those became weekly staples on the offensive side of the ball.
The results showed, as the Jaguars Jaguars won't use 
inexperience excuse in 2015 
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311
SEE JAGUARS,  PAGE  14SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015
UF VOLLEYBALL
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
 
The UF volleyball team set the 
bar high in 2014, but it can un-
doubtedly soar higher in 2015. 
The Gators strung together a 
23-game win streak, went unde-
feated in Southeastern Confer-
ence play (18-0) and even made 
an appearance in the NCAA Tour-nament’s quarterfinals for the first time since 2011.
While the season was impres-
sive, Florida returns the majority of the talent and pieces it needs for an even better run in 2015.
Last year’s SEC Freshman of 
the Year Rhamat Alhassan re-turns to the court as the nation’s reigning leader in hitting percent-age (.458). 
Now a sophomore and a year 
of collegiate play under her belt, the 6-foot-4 middle blocker will look to anchor the front line and improve upon her team-leading 
149 blocks. 
Alex Holston, the 2014 SEC 
Volleyball Player of the Year, will 
return as a junior after leading the team in points per set (4.46) and 
kills per set (3.83). 
Florida will count on the ver-
satile right-side hitter’s abilities 
this season.
While UF brings all of its of-
fense back, the Gators lack expe-rience on the defensive side.
Florida’s three back row start-
ers from last season — libero Hol-
ly Pole and defensive specialists 
Madison Monserez and Taylor Unroe — all graduated.
Senior Nikki O’Rouke has the 
most experience of UF’s defensive specialists, playing in 52 matches during her first three years.
UF also has second-year play-
ers Sam Dubiel and Lindsey Rog-
ers, as well as Santa Fe College 
transfer Ann-Lorrayne Bzoch, to provide depth to a shallow back-court.
Bzoch has the best resume of 
the three, playing in all 141 sets for Santa Fe and leading the Saints 
to their first Mid-Florida Confer-
ence title. She averaged 4.29 digs per set and tallied 15 service aces during the season.
Dubiel played in nine sets dur-
ing her first year at UF, recording a just two digs but also showcas-ing a powerful float-serve when behind the line.
And Rogers redshirted as she 
began her transition from an out-side hitter in high school to a col-legiate defensive specialist.
Perhaps more important than 
all, Mary Wise will be at the helm of UF’s volleyball team will once again, who cashed in her 800th 
career win last season. 
The 2014 SEC Coach of the 
Year will look to add to her leg-
acy and her 742-88 record at UF in her 25th season in Gainesville.  
The Gators open the season on 
Aug. 29 against James Madison in Harrisonburg, Virginia. 
Previewing UF volleyball's season  
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Mackenzie Dagostino sets the ball during Florida's 3-0 win against 
Mississippi State on Oct. 26 in the O'Connell Center. 
ranked near the bottom of the league in every 
major offensive category.
“It was real,” defensive end Andre Branch 
said. “We did have a young team. We still have a young team. Our coaches are even 
young. But we’re not going to use that as an 
excuse or focus on it or even talk about. The reality is our young guys have taken more reps than some vets in this league. We just want to keep growing up together and mov-ing forward.”
Adding a handful of veterans should help 
the process.
Jacksonville signed seven key free agents, 
adding Pro Bowl tight end Julius Thomas, de-fensive end Jared Odrick, right tackle Jermey Parnell, cornerback Davon House, linebacker Dan Skuta, safety Sergio Brown and center Stefan Wisniewski. They guaranteed nearly $80 million to those guys to upgrade the tal-ent around three years’ worth of draft picks.
The next step is getting everyone to fit to-
gether and jell.
“We feel like we should be able to see 
a lot of improvement on the field,” veteran linebacker Paul Posluszny said. “We feel comfortable; we feel confident with what we need to do and with the people that we have. I feel like each year, we built a foundation. We’ve grown off of it each year, and now we have some pieces where we say, ‘OK, every-thing should be in place.’ We have certain aspects of our team now that are very, very 
solid, and we have some depth in areas that 
we didn’t have before. All that should make a big impact during the season.”
The Jaguars could use some tangible proof that things are headed in the right direction.
Sure, they feel as though they have more 
talent on both sides of the ball and are seeing signs of growth and maturity. But they also won one fewer game in 2014 than they did in 2013, and of their 25 losses under Caldwell and Bradley, 19 of those have been by double 
digits.
And there are still questions about all the 
youngsters: Will second-year quarterback 
Blake Bortles make significant strides? Can second-year receivers Marqise Lee and Allen Robinson stay healthy? Is third-year left tack-le Luke Joeckel a long-term building block? Do safety Johnathan Cyprien, linebacker Telvin Smith and cornerbacks Demetrius Mc-Cray and Aaron Colvin become more consis-tent playmakers on defense?
“It certainly feels different with all these 
guys now,” veteran tight end Marcedes Lew-
is said. 
“It’s weird because you knew how young 
we were last year, but you didn’t really think 
about it until people start pointing it out ev-ery single game. There was just a lot going on.
“We’re at a different point now than what 
we were last year. We’re not necessarily comfortable because we’re never comfort-
able, but we’re more calm out there as far 
as trying to work together and figure things out.”
JAGUARS,  from pg 13Jags ranked near bottom of league in most offensive categoriesBy The Associated Press
The National Baseball Con-
gress suspended using batboys 
and girls during its World Series 
games in Kansas following the death of a 9-year-old boy who was accidentally hit in the head 
with a bat during a game.
Kaiser Carlile died Sunday, a 
day after he was hit by a follow-
through swing near the on-deck circle during the Liberal Bee 
Jays’ game in Wichita. 
The boy was wearing a hel-
met.
During an emotional news 
conference Monday, Kaiser was remembered as an energetic, 
happy boy who loved being part 
of the Bee Jays. 
Manager Adam Anderson and 
several players said he inspired 
them to always work hard, have 
fun and win.
“I can’t get over how hard he 
worked, and he was having fun doing it,” said outfielder Gavin 
Wehby, who plays for Nicholls 
State. 
“I was blessed to have called 
him a friend, a teammate and most of all a brother.”
The NBC’s general manager, 
Kevin Jenks, said Kaiser would 
be honored throughout the tour-
nament until the championship 
game Saturday. 
The honors will include hav-
ing the boy’s initials on the 
scoreboard marquee and fund-
raisers for his family during the 
games. 
The team also is wearing 
wristbands and T-shirts with 
Kaiser’s initials.
Kaiser’s father, Chad Carlile, 
said his son was competitive but 
also just loved the game of base-
ball. 
He said Kaiser cherished a 
pair of shoes and a white brace-let the team had given him. He said his son’s organs will be do-nated.
“There is no anger towards 
what happened,” he said. 
“This is something that was 
obviously a tragedy. I want no bad comments ... He was hap-py. He loved it and the team we are obviously for loved him as well.”
The Bee Jays played and won 
after Kaiser was hurt Saturday 
night and won again on Sunday, 
making it to the semifinals. 
His parents attended Sun-
day’s game and supported the team’s decision to continue 
playing “because they know 
that’s what Kaiser would want 
us to do,” Anderson said.
Anderson said the death has 
hit his teammates hard. 
He said the team has been 
comforted by support from 
across the country and the world and its staying together to cope with the loss.
“My biggest message to them 
is nobody is going through this alone,” Anderson said. 
“We’re here to support each 
other and support Kaiser’s fam-ily. This is not one person’s bur-den to bear. We’ll have to bear it together.”
The city of Wichita owns 
Lawrence-Dumont Stadium, where the accident took place, and is deciding whether to in-vestigate the accident.National Baseball 
Congress suspends batboys after death 
“W e did have a young team. W e still 
have a young team. ... But we're not 
going to use that as an excuse.”
Andre Branch
Jacksonville Jaguars defensive end“W e're here to support each 
other and support Kaiser's 
family. This is no one person's 
burden to bear. W e'll have to 
bear it together. ”
Adam Anderson
Liberal Bee Jays managerhired Chris Rumph to fill the role left 
by Williams, which was good news for Jefferson. Rumph had recruited Jefferson to Alabama, and the hiring of Rumph assuaged any remaining 
doubts about where Jefferson want-
ed to play. Now that he’s decided, Jefferson has the physical tools to start as a strong-side defensive end in defensive coordinator Geoff Col-lins’ system.
3. Antonio Callaway  — If 
early reports are any indication, the Gators found a hidden gem in Miami native Antonio Callaway. The four-star recruit according to 247Sports 
is a speedy receiver who could start 
in the slot for the Gators. He hails from Booker T. Washington High, the same program where sophomore quarterback Treon Harris played, and playing in the slot is ideal for his skillset. Latroy Pittman and Brandon Powell and would seem to have the upper hand, but one setback in their development could have the coaches calling for Callaway’s services.
4. Jordan Scarlett  — Like Cal-
laway, the Gators stole Jordan Scar-lett from Miami to give coach Jim McElwain his first four-star recruit. Scarlett explored his options across the state of Florida, including verbal commitments to Miami and Florida Atlantic. In the end, it came down to Florida and Florida State and Scarlett chose Gainesville. Florida lost Matt 
Jones in the backfield from last sea-
son, and the combination of Kelvin Taylor and Adam Lane look pre-pared to carry the load. But Scarlett could receive a share of the carries if either of the primary returning backs disappoint.
5. Jacob Tilghman  — This 
one will come as a shock to most, but Jacob Tilghman could start on Sept. 5 as the long-snapper for the Gators. UF special teams coordina-
tor Greg Nord reportedly saw Til-
ghman’s high school highlight tape and asked him to come in for a visit. While he isn’t on scholarship, Tilgh-man earned a preferred walk-on op-portunity with the Gators. He appar-ently almost quit football altogether to focus on baseball, but his coaches at Mainland High in Daytona Beach 
convinced him to continue to devel-
op his skills as a long-snapper. Now, he's in a position to start. 
at 5-foot-10 she was too short to play setter. 
Coach Mary Wise raves about Dagostino any chance she gets, calling her highly competitive and an elite athlete. Her teammates say she spends her time spreading optimism and en-couraging the team to do its best. She is every-thing a volleyball team could want in a setter, and the fact she did it all in her first season as a consistent starter proves she’s UF’s Best Female Athlete. 
McPherson: Haeger caps collegiate 
career in style
It seemed as if Lauren Haeger could do no 
wrong last season.
She had big shoes to fill, replacing four-time 
All-American Hannah Rogers as the UF softball team’s ace in the circle.
And with her face in the limelight, Haeger 
put on the cleats that Rogers left, laced them up and had the senior year of a lifetime, carry-ing the Gators to their second straight national title.
She broke records, setting the UF record for 
career RBIs (260) and the SEC record for career home runs (71).
She swept every major accolade she could 
in her final year, highlighted by being the first USA Softball Collegiate Player of the Year in UF history.
And she became the first player in colle-
giate softball history to have at least 70 wins as a pitcher and 70 home runs, a feat only ac-complished by Babe Ruth (a fantastic albeit ridiculous analogy).
After three years of being seen as a hitter 
first and being stuck in Rogers’ shadows as a pitcher, Haeger proved that she was the real deal when it all fell on her shoulders.
She was the best athlete at UF last year.There’s no arguing with that.
Torres: Gilroy leads UF's offense 
For all intents and purposes Shannon Gilroy 
was the best female athlete this year at Florida. She might not have gotten the same recogni-tion as the others on this list — it might’ve been because her team was bounced after the second round of the NCAA Tournament — but 
her accomplishments shouldn’t be overlooked. 
She led a potent Gators offense that scored 
the most goals in the country and ranked third in the nation in scoring offense (15.22 goals per 
game). The Northport, New York, native led 
Florida in goals (74), assists (24) and points (98) and was named the 2015 Big East Mid-
fielder of the Year. 
After scoring eight goals and providing an 
assist during the two-game tournament, Gilroy 
was named the Big East Tournament’s Most 
Outstanding Player.
Oh, and she was also one of five finalists 
for the Tewaaraton Award, which honors the 
top male and female lacrosse players in the 
country. Gilroy finished her career as one of the best 
collegiate lacrosse players of all-time and she’s 
more than worthy of adding the title of Best Fe-male Athlete at UF during the 2014-15 season.    
Which female athlete at UF was the best? 
Vote online at alligator.org/sports. All results 
will be revealed in our New Student Edition on 
Aug. 17. TUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain walks on the field during the Orange and Blue Debut game on April 11 at  
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Shannon Gilroy runs down the field during Florida's 17-11 seaon-opening loss to North Carolina on Feb. 7 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. The loss ended Florida's 23-game regular-season win streak at home. 
AWARDS,  from pg 13Gilroy led an offense that scored the most goals in the countryCOLUMN,  from pg 13Ivey, Jefferson enter the season with a realistic chance to start 16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 4, 2015
On June 16, The Errict Rhett Foundation 
filed a Suggestion of Bankruptcy, which 
was dismissed after Rhett failed to meet 
with creditors, according to the documents. The Woodfield Community Association’s 
case against Rhett is scheduled to be heard Friday at 9 a.m. at the Alachua County Courthouse.
Rhett, a native of Pembroke Pines, 
played for the Gators and coach Steve Spurrier from 1990 to 1993. He finished his UF career with 4,163 yards rushing and 34 touchdowns, breaking the record held by NFL Pro Football Hall of Fame running back Emmitt Smith. 
Rhett was a first-team All-Southeastern 
Conference selection in 1991 and 1993 and was named the Most Valuable Player in the Gators’ 41-7 victory over the West Virginia Mountaineers in the 1994 Sugar Bowl. Rhett was selected by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the second round of the 1994 NFL Draft. 
He played seven seasons before retiring. 
He was inducted into the University of 
Florida Athletic Hall of Fame in 2005. 
FOOTBALL,  from pg 1Rhett was inducted into the UF Athletic Hall of Fame in 2005By The Associated Press
Rio de Janeiro Governor Luiz 
Fernando Pezao signed a deal 
Monday with several Brazilian uni-versities and research institutes to develop a plan for cleaning up the 
polluted waters of the city’s sew-
age-strewn Guanabara Bay, where Olympic sailing events will be held.
Pezao hailed the deal as a 
“very important step” toward the long-promised cleanup, which has dragged on for more than 20 years with little progress.
As part of Brazil’s Olympic proj-
ect, authorities pledged more than six years ago to drastically cut the amount of raw human sewage in the bay before the 2016 games. But only one of the eight promised treatment plants aimed at filtering much of the waste out of the riv-ers that have become open-air sew-age ditches has been built, and the 
bay’s once-crystalline waters re-
main fetid.
An Associated Press investiga-
tion published last week revealed high counts of disease-causing vi-ruses directly linked to human sew-age in Olympic waters.
In a statement from his office, 
Pezao was quoted as saying that 
since Rio won its Olympic bid in 
2009, the city has boosted the treat-ment of sewage that once flowed into the bay from 17 percent to 49 percent. The original promise was to treat 80 percent of sewage that ends up in the bay by the 2016 games, but state and municipal officials have repeatedly acknowl-edged there’s no way that pledge will be met.
Internet portal UOL quoted Pe-
zao as saying “we made a mistake. We can’t continue to make more mistakes.” He added that the gov-ernment wouldn’t commit to any further cleanup targets before the necessary studies had been done, the UOL report said.It also quoted Rogerio Vale, who 
was representing Rio’s federal uni-versity at Monday’s signing event, as saying, “We’re working toward a gradual plan and a long-term re-cuperation of the bay.
Seven universities — six of them 
public institutions — as well as sev-eral research institutes will develop the new cleanup plan.
Brazil universities sign deal to help reduce water pollution
AP Photo
Triathlon athletes Erin Jones, left, and Kevin Mcdowell, of the U.S., lead a swimming clinic for local swimmers along Copacabana Beach in 
Rio De Janeiro, Brazil, on Monday despite published warnings that water in the area was “unfit” for swimming. 
2016 SUMMER OLYMPICS