We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 138 TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015
By Hannah Morse
Alligator Staff Writer
hmorse@alligator.org
In 2006, UF made a promise to 
reach zero waste by this year.
“Zero waste” means that 90 
percent or more of the waste col-
lected can be diverted from the 
landﬁ  ll and be reused, recycled or 
composted. There will always be that 10 percent that cannot be re-used in any manner, such as bio-medical waste or liqueﬁ  ed trash.
 But last year, UF diverted only 
45.3 percent.
Although the university has 
a long way to go, efforts in gen-
erating a sustainable university 
haven’t been wasted.
The idea for zero waste at 
UF was conceived in September 2000, when the university estab-lished an Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability in the College of Design, Con-struction and Planning. 
 The zero-waste idea then 
traveled to The Swamp, when the University Athletic Associa-tion implemented the idea in the stadium’s skyboxes, said Dedee Johnston, Wake Forest Univer-sity’s director of sustainability  since 2009 and former UF sustain-ability director. 
In Feb. 2006, UF created the 
campus-wide Ofﬁ  ce of Sustain-ability. Its goals: to be carbon neutral by 2025, to add sustain-ability studies to the curriculum and to create zero waste by 2015. 
Johnston said that it was im-
portant for UF as a ﬂ  agship cam-pus to take on these “big, hairy, audacious goals” in order to inﬂ  u-
ence other Florida campuses.
Matthew Williams, UF Ofﬁ  ce 
of Sustainability director since 2013, said a zero-waste goal is 
forward-thinking. A 10-year time 
horizon was pretty long for a 
university to have, he said, but was short enough for people to get motivated and engaged in the idea.
“It’s a tricky one because ev-
erything we do is heavily depen-dent on what’s available in the community,” he said.
Diverting waste successfully 
is linked to the county’s ability to process, recycle and compost. It’s difﬁ  cult to achieve a university zero-waste goal when there isn’t a large-scale composting facility.
In 2014, of the 16,805 tons 
of combined waste produced by UF’s 49,555 enrolled students, 9,179 tons were sent to New River Regional Landﬁ  ll, which is about an hour away in Raiford, and 7,625 tons were diverted through recycling and composting.
“Right now, we’ve rebranded 
it as ‘toward zero waste’ to give 
us a little more wiggle room,” said 
Liz Storn, a program coordinator for the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability. “But it’s deﬁ  nitely possible.”
Junior has rebound year after 
early career struggles
A.J. Crouch has become a leader on the 
UF men’s golf team, pg 14.
ASO investigating after video of armored ve-
hicle traﬃ   c stop
Watch the video online at alligator.org.
The Tax Files: Yes, TurboTax, I’m single
One reporter does taxes on her own for the ﬁ  rst time, pg 4.UF student ﬁ  nds inspiration in wakeboarding for ﬁ  rst solo art show
She uses ink stains and geometric prints, pg 9.
By Emily Cochrane and Alyssa 
Fisher
Alligator Staff Writers
ecochrane@alligator.org
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
The Innovation minor is an academic pillar 
within the Innovation Academy.
As IA students sign up for their ﬁ  rst cours-
es, they’re required to register for Creativity in 
Context, the ﬁ  rst of six classes needed to earn the minor.“That’s really the heart of the program,” 
said IA director Jeff Citty. “You’re going to come away with this skill set that employers are seeking in the 21st-century economy that includes creative thinking, problem solving.”
While the minor sets the IA program apart 
from the rest of UF, the structure presents some academic challenges when it comes to 
selecting and maintaining a major. But to un-
derstand those challenges, it’s ﬁ  rst essential to understand the history and academic facets of the program.
IA stemmed from a combination of ideas, 
said Bernard Mair, associate provost for Under-graduate Affairs.
The ﬁ  rst was to accommodate more stu-dents, Mair said. Although UF is always full in the Fall, there was usually more room in Spring after December graduations. The initial discussion with Provost Joseph Glover came at a time of innovation development goals. (Glover didn’t return a request for comment.) They got approval from the Florida Legislature to design a Spring-to-Summer concept.
“The entire educational landscape is chang-
ing at this time,” Mair said. “No longer are we focusing on static learning, but more active learning and involving students in more design concepts and creative ideas.”
IA students experience this method of learn-
ing in six semesters through their required in-novation minor classes. Students must take classes on creativity, entrepreneurship, ethics, leadership and interdisciplinary projects.
Students can choose from 32 majors, ac-
cording to the IA website, about a third of what’s available to traditional undergraduates.
“The colleges elect to be a part of the Inno-
vation Academy based on their resources and their ability to offer their major in the Spring-Summer cycle,” Citty said.
For now, if an IA student wants a major 
that’s not offered in the academy, Citty said ad-visers try to ﬁ  nd a major in IA that can be used to achieve the student’s career goals. IA has two advisers available ﬁ  ve days a week to help 
Inside Innovation Academy: academics and IA’s calendarUF misses waste goal, still strives for sustainability
45%55%In 2014, UF’s 49,555  students produced 
16,805  tons of garbage. By weight,
that’s 1,200  school buses, 84 blue whales,  
200  space shuttles or 100 million bananas.
It’s roughly 642,000  cubic meters compacted, 
enough to ﬁ  ll 256  olympic swimming pools.
9,179  tons went to the 
 LANDFILL
and 7,625  were diverted through 
recycling  and composting .
Waste Diverted 
(tons)Diversion Rate Total Waste 
(tons)
16,805 7,625 45.4%
5,846 34.4%
2,358 42.7%16,995
5,523UF
Ohio 
State
CU
Boulder9,1797,625
 diverted tons
landﬁ  lled tons
Part 2 of 5SEE WASTE,  PAGE  3
SEE IA, PAGE 8Information via university sustainability programsSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 138
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  88° LOW  66°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Pay what you can to see ‘The 
Two Musketeers’ at the 
HippodromeOn a tight budget for your enter-tainment? Tonight only, pay what 
you can to see the 7 p.m. perfor-
mance of “The Two Musketeers” at the Hippodrome State Theatre ($5 minimum). When a small acting company eliminates one musketeer from their production of “The Three Musketeers” due to budget constraints, the rest of the cast must sally forth bravely 
with only two. The classic tale of 
d’Artagnan and his sword-fight-ing friends is presented with hi-larity, romance, wit and derring-do to spare. This high-comedy adaptation is a witty send-up of Alexandre Dumas’ beloved ad-venture — think Monty Python meets Mel Brooks.
UF ICBR 2nd Annual 
Sustainability FairLocal green vendors come to-gether today at the 2nd Annual Interdisciplinary Center for Biotechnology Research Green Team Sustainability Fair from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Cancer & 
Genetics Research Complex on 
Mowry Road. UF and Gainesville sustainable organizations will provide resources on green prac-tices and services for attendees to incorporate in their lives. Learn about the UF recycling initia-tive or grab a cookie from Gator Dining while browsing partici-
pating vendors. Attendees can 
support the community by do-nating blood in the Bloodmobile on site. All are encouraged to use sustainable transportation by busing, biking or walking to the fair.
Songwriters in the Round
Take a journey into Alachua County’s rich history with a pre-sentation by three members of Little Jake and the Soul Searchers at the Matheson History Museum on Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. Little Jake Mitchell performed at the Apollo Theater and toured with James Brown. B.B. King 
encouraged him to stay in show 
business. For more than 35 years, Charlie Steadham booked thousands of shows featuring a diverse array of artists. Tran Whitley was one of the first lo-cal musicians to join the modern trend of music files reinforcing live performances. They will 
discuss the invention and rein-
vention of the Gainesville music scene. For more information, call 352-378-2280 or email info@mathesonmuseum.org.Circus cats
The Amazing Acro-Cats are a troupe of real, rescued house cats that “purrform” acrobatic feats of agility: They roll on balls, 
balance on beams, ride skate-
boards and more. The grand finale is the only all-cat band known to exist — Tuna and the Rock Cats. “Purrforming” at the Hippodrome State Theatre from Thursday through Sunday. More information on the act can be found at circuscats.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HOW UF MEASURES UP
UF is one of 701 institutions par-
ticipating in the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education’s program called 
Sustainability Tracking, Assess-
ment and Rating System, known as STARS. Schools can earn bronze, sil-ver, gold or platinum ratings.
The association system rates 
schools based on a checklist of tasks, which includes education initiatives, building design and waste diversion. UF had a silver rating in 2011, but 
it has since expired. Storn said the 
Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability is working to-ward resubmitting its information to have a rating by the summer. Storn said the ratings last three years, and they hope to be rated silver or gold. 
The Ohio State University, whose 
stadium in 2011 became the largest in the country to attempt zero waste, 
has a silver rating. OSU has a 34.4 
percent diversion rate on the nearly 58,000-student campus and an ini-tiative to create zero waste by 2030, said OSU’s sustainability coordinator Tony Gillund. 
Its stadium can hold about 16,000 
more fans than The Swamp, and OSU’s highest diversion rate at its 
football games is 98.68 percent. In its 
2014 season, it contributed 1.95 tons of waste to the landﬁ  ll, according to its website. UF has been gearing toward being waste-free in its foot-ball stadium by starting a recycling 
program in the 2006 football season 
and has a 70 percent average diver-sion rate. 
Stadium diversion percentages 
are larger than campus percentages because it’s a closed system, Wil-liams said. Bag checks keep outside waste from coming into the stadium, so everything thrown away at foot-ball games came from the stadium. 
OSU and UF have both worked on changing contracts with conces-sion vendors to make sure that food containers and cups are compostable or recyclable.
When the University of Colorado-
Boulder, which has a gold rating, created its campus master plan, its goal was to divert 85 percent of its waste by 2017. 
Jack DeBell, CU-Boulder’s recy-
cling program development direc-tor since 1985, said that document is now irrelevant. CU-Boulder has since changed its zero waste goal to 
2020, but today the 30,265-student 
campus diverts 42.7 percent of its waste from the landﬁ  ll, amounting to 2,358 tons of a total of 5,523 tons of waste produced. 
“When you’ve already picked 
the low-hanging fruit off our cam-pus, which we have, it gets harder 
and harder to continue to increase 
diversion by going after smaller and smaller material streams,” DeBell said. These smaller streams, he said, include toner cartridges, shrink wrap and lab glass. 
DeBell said the most important 
move the university made was pri-oritize zero waste as a method for 
doing business. 
“When administrations, faculty, 
custodians and students think about aspects that go into consumerism,” 
he said, “that’s zero waste for us.” 
WHERE IT GOESAlachua County doesn’t have an 
operating landﬁ  ll of its own. The county once had ﬁ  ve landﬁ  lls, but all of them have been closed since the early 1900s, which means they’re ﬁ  lled to capacity. Citizen groups said they didn’t want another, said Sally Palmi, assistant public works/waste management director in Alachua County. 
Johnston noted that the U.S. falls 
behind when it comes to zero waste. 
“Technologies that are deployed in other parts of the world are not as mainstream in this country,” she said. “We still think of landﬁ  lling as a viable option. It allows us to have that mentality of ‘I can throw that 
away,’ out of sight, out of mind.” 
Tucked in a wooded area off 
Northeast State Road 24 is Leveda 
Brown Environmental Park, the transfer station where waste from Alachua, Gilchrist and Levy coun-ties gathers before being sent to New River Regional Landﬁ  ll. 
Palmi said there’s still a mental-
ity that it’s up to the county to sort through the garbage to ﬁ  nd every recyclable, reusable part. But on the main ﬂ  oor of the transfer station, workers will pick out the noticeable items that can’t be thrown away, like refrigerators. Otherwise, items will be sloughed into a trailer below the ﬂ  oor, weighed and driven to New 
River. 
Charlie Hobson, division manag-
er of SP Recycling Corporation that 
operates out of the environmental park, said it’s common for unsorted recyclable items, such as the card-board and plastic that comes with packages of bottled water, to go to the landﬁ  ll. He said that if the pack-
aging arrives with the cardboard in-
side the plastic, it’ll just be put in the landﬁ  ll rather than separated.
DeBell, the recycling program de-
velopment director for CU-Boulder, said attitudes toward recycling have changed over the last 30 years.
“I’ve seen recycling build from 
a token environmental effort to a 
practical, ﬁ  nancially viable and so-
cially acceptable way of reducing resources.”
Sustainability education is one of 
the biggest challenges universities face when striving for zero waste, from understanding what products are recyclable to learning how to compost.
“Zero waste is more of a journey 
than a destination,” DeBell said.
TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Premier Auto Collision Experts
Insurance claims
Domestic & 
foreign cars
Certified technicians
352-371-0215 33 SE 13th Rd. gt-motocars.netShow a Santa Fe 
or UF ID for a 
student or 
faculty discount
WASTE,  from pg1Compared to universities of similar size, UF close in diversion
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff 
A bulldozer pushes waste into a trailer at Leveda Brown Environmental Park in Gainesville. Waste 
from Levy, Gilchrist and Alachua counties collects at Leveda Brown before being sent an hour away to New River Landﬁ  ll in Raiford.4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015
Laura Cardona / Alligator
HHM Week
Jordan Fulkerson,  an 18-year-old UF public relations freshman, writes down what Hispanic Heritage 
Month means to her at an HHM Week tabling event on Turlington Plaza on Monday. HHM will host 
events throughout the week to introduce students to HHM and give them a glimpse of what the upcom-ing month will be like.STATE BILLS HAVE TO MAKE IT 
THROUGH COMMITTEES. 
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
California banned it in 2012, New Jersey 
Gov. Chris Christie made it illegal in 2013, and 
President Barack Obama denounced its valid-ity Wednesday.
Florida is one of about 20 states addressing 
the ethics and effectiveness of conversion ther-apy, a counseling method that aims to change individuals from homosexual to heterosexual.
With proposed sister bills House Bill 83 and 
Senate Bill 204, Florida could be among the next states to ban the therapy method for mi-nors, if the bill can get through its committees.
State Rep. David Richardson, D-Miami 
Beach, and state Sen. Jeff Clemens, D-Lake 
Worth, proposed the bills in December.
The proposed bills would only ban con-
version therapy done by licensed counselors. 
It wouldn’t prohibit churches or others from practicing it.
As the first openly gay Florida state legisla-
tor, Richardson said it’s important youth are not forced into conversion therapy. He said he thinks his bill won’t be heard in its committees because they are chaired by Republicans.
Still, he’s hopeful the bill will 
lead people to discuss LGBTQ+ rights.
“When I file it, it gets conversa-
tion,” he said.
John Super, a UF clinical as-
sistant professor of counselor edu-cation, said conversion therapy methods vary from associating 
negative images with homosexual-
ity to using electroshock therapy.
Conversion therapy can cause emotional 
distress such as depression, anxiety and dam-age to future relationships, Super said.
While some adults approach Super seeking 
the therapy, he said he does not practice it. In-stead, he offers other counseling methods.
Terry Fleming, co-president of the Pride 
Community Center of North Central Florida, said he hopes to see the House bill move to next session’s agenda. He  said he is strongly opposed to the therapy.
“(Conversion therapy) needs to be 
stopped,” he said.  “Young people need to be protected from these efforts that damage 
them.”
Obama’s administration has 
also taken a stand against conver-sion therapy.
“We are hopeful that the clar-
ity of the evidence combined with the actions taken by these states (that have bills to outlaw conver-sion therapy for minors) will lead 
to broader action that this admin-
istration would support,” Valerie 
Jarrett, a presidential senior adviser, wrote in response to a petition to enact Leelah’s Law, which would ban the therapy.
By speaking openly about conversion ther-
apy, Richardson said Obama is educating the U.S. about the issue, adding that the amount of support for the LGBTQ+ community is grow-
ing.“As each day passes, more and more peo-
ple meet people who are gay or lesbian or 
transgender,” Richardson said.
Keith Vennum, a UF alumnus and counsel-
or who practices reparative therapy, said the government shouldn’t prohibit it.
“Any kind of therapy that the minor wants 
should be available to them,” he said.
But Super said the therapy has been proven 
to be ineffective, citing the American Psycho-logical Association and the American Counsel-ing Association, both of which are against it.
Fleming said the bills are important for mi-
nors, who are usually forced into therapy by their parents.
“The reparative therapy, by its very nature, 
is being forced on people,” he said. “There’s nothing voluntary about it — ever.”
Fleming said he has lobbied for HB 83 on 
behalf of north central Florida’s Pride group. Other LGBTQ+-rights supporters, such as Equality Florida and the United Church of Gainesville, also spoke with legislators.
“We think it’s an incredibly important bill, 
and we hope it will pass,” Fleming said.State legislators, Obama call for end to conversion therapy
FINANCE
ONE REPORTER DOES 
TAXES ON HER OWN 
FOR THE FIRST TIME.
By Carla Vianna
Alligator Staff Writer
cvianna@alligator.org
I’m a 22-year-old college stu-
dent about to graduate. I live on 
my own. I cook for myself. I drive my own car.
But I’ve never entered the 
deep, dark abyss that is filing my own taxes.
Last year I worked as a pho-
tographer and did freelance work on the side, which left me with two glorious tax forms to file. So I decided to give taxes a try.
A quick Google search led me 
to, “FREE Tax Filing. TurboTax is the #1 best-selling tax software.”
“Seems legit,” I thought.I was directed to a “Tell us 
about you” page. Unfortunately, there was only one answer choice that applied to me.
I clicked on “Single,” which I 
was asked to confirm three more 
times.
Last year, “29 million folks filed with TurboTax,” according to the site.
I was not alone.
So I braced myself. I sang 
words of encouragement in my 
head and promised myself a cup-
cake upon completion.  
It was time.
Filing the W-2 form was easy, 
like tax filing for dummies. Fill this out. Then click on this. Find 
this number here and so on.
But in order to file the 1099 
form, I had to buy the $54.99 de-
luxe version.
So much for free. Grumbling, 
I pulled out my credit card and 
signed away my adolescence.
I was then hit with a jumble 
of obscure questions concerning 
“exemptions” and “deductions.”
It was like taking a lie detec-
tor test.
Question after question caused 
a ring of sweat beads above my eyebrows.
I had to call my mom five 
times. She eventually directed me to Paul, our accountant. Neither were much help.
Three hours later, I was done. 
I felt like I just aged 10 years and 
could already taste that cupcake.
Although TurboTax tries to 
rid itself of tax jargon, the process 
was still incredibly confusing and 
time consuming.
And who knows if I did it 
right? When Internal Revenue 
Service agents show up at my door, I’ll know why.
Next time I’ll be more likely to 
go to H&R Block or Liberty Tax Services. Hopefully they’ll only ask once if I’m single.
In the end, I was left with a 
whopping $35 return, which means I’ll have to trade Chipotle 
for Taco Bell this week.The Tax Files: Yes, 
TurboTax, I’m single
By Richard Johnson
Alligator Staff Writer
rjohnson@alligator.org
University Police arrested two UF 
baseball pitchers late Sunday night 
after they reportedly trespassed on a construction site and tried to climb a crane.
At about 11:45 p.m., Andrew Ja-
cob Puk, 19, and William Kirby Snead, 20, entered a marked construction site at UF’s new chemistry building on the corner of University Avenue and Buckman Drive, according to a police report. While on the site, Puk and Snead attempted to climb a crane.
Both players were drinking at the 
time of the incident, which was re-ported to UPD by a Student Nighttime 
Auxiliary Patrol driver, according to the report.
UPD arrested 
Puk, a criminology sophomore, and Snead, a food and 
resource economics sophomore, on charges of trespassing a construction site — a third-degree felony.
At about 12:30 p.m. Monday, Puk 
and Snead were released from the Alachua County Jail on their own re-cognizance.
Neither pitcher has performed 
particularly well this season on the mound. Snead has a 4.91 earned run average through 13 appearances, the second highest of any UF reliever.
He’s allowing 
opposing hitters to bat .348 against him, the most of any pitcher on 
UF’s roster.
Puk has a 5.87 ERA, the highest of 
any UF starter. He has a 6-3 record in nine appearances, seven of which he has started. Both pitchers appeared in relief in Florida’s 12-5 victory Satur-day over South Carolina. According to a UF baseball spokesman, both play -
ers have been suspended from the team indefinitely. 
Two UF baseball pitchers arrested
Snead
 Puk
“I had to call my 
mom five times. 
She eventually 
directed me 
to Paul, our 
accountant. 
Neither were 
much help.”STATE
NEWSTUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 Danielle Veenstra / Alligator 
Kissing Booth
Leor Shuflita, a 19-year-old UF zoology freshman, is licked by German shepherd puppy Bonnie on the 
Plaza of the Americas on Monday during Off Campus Life at UF’s Puppy Palooza event. Puppy Palooza started off UF’s Student Appreciation Week by informing students about being responsible pet owners.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
A new plan from the Obama 
administration that could cut the 
costs for community college stu-
dents is moving closer to fruition.
On Saturday morning, Vice 
President Joe Biden announced a 
basic outline to President Barack 
Obama’s plan called “America’s 
College Promise” that would make the first two years of community college free.
To cover the fee of two free years, Biden proposed closing loop-
holes for the wealthiest investors 
and imposing a .07 percent tax on the biggest banks to discourage be-havior that crashed the economy a 
few years ago. Biden did not elabo-
rate further.
Keith Simpson, a 23-year-old 
Santa Fe College organization man-agement senior, wishes he could 
have benefited from this plan.
To attend college, he worked 
nearly 30 hours a week and relied 
on student loans for the past three 
years. He’s graduating this summer 
with $15,000 of debt.“I think if we were able to pro-
vide young students with a chance to educate themselves and make themselves better,” Simpson said, it’d be 
better for everyone.
Santa Fe Presi-
dent Jackson Sasser 
shared a similar sen-timent.
He said to present 
the plan to Congress and U.S. residents, the Obama administration will 
have to highlight the economic 
benefits of community colleges. Sasser said community colleges 
helped lift the U.S. out of its recent recession by providing people with 
education, which al-lowed them to get 
better jobs.
If the plan passes 
Congress, students 
will need to attend school at least part 
time, maintain a 2.5 
GPA and work to-ward completing 
their degree. Community colleges 
will be required to strengthen their 
programs and increase graduation rates, and states will have to invest 
more in higher education and train-
ing.
According to a White House fact 
sheet, an estimated 9 million stu-
dents could benefit from Obama’s 
plan.
During her visit to Santa Fe 
earlier this semester, second lady Jill Biden told a large group of stu-
dents, faculty and staff about the 
importance community colleges have in bettering people’s lives.
By 2020, she said, two-thirds 
of job openings “will require some form of higher education.” Biden reveals details of Obama’s free community college
NATION
HE ANNOUNCED HIS 
CANDIDACY IN MIAMI.
By The Associated Press
MIAMI — Sen. Marco Ru-
bio entered the presidential race 
Monday by offering the nation a younger generation of leadership that breaks free of ideas “stuck in 
the 20th century,” a jab at both 
Democratic favorite Hillary Rod-ham Clinton and his one-time Re-publican mentor, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.
Standing in front of a banner 
that proclaimed “A New Ameri-can Century” and repeating that refrain throughout his kickoff 
speech, the 43-year-old Cuban-
American used his first turn as a Republican presidential candi-date to take on two of America’s political dynasties. 
In doing so, he bet heavily on the electorate’s frustrations with Washington and his ability to 
change how his party is seen by 
voters.
“This election is not just about 
what laws we are going to pass,” Rubio told his evening rally. “It is a generational choice about what kind of country we will be.”
He said it’s also a choice be-
tween the haves and have-nots, 
nodding to his own upbringing 
by working-class parents.
In his televised speech, he told 
supporters, “The time has come for our generation to lead the way toward a new American century.”
Rubio is the third major Grand 
Old Party contender to declare himself a candidate, after Sen. 
Ted Cruz of Texas and Sen. Rand 
Paul of Kentucky, in a field that could grow to 20 or more.
Rubio could make history as 
the nation’s first Hispanic presi-dent — as could Cruz.Marco Rubio enters 
race for president 
By Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested two men 
and one woman early Monday for report-
edly using and cooking crystal meth.
Shortly before 8 p.m. Sunday, officers 
went to Sundowne Villas, located at 3600 
Windmeadows Blvd., for a follow-up on 
a previous methamphetamine investiga-tion, according to a police report. Upon arrival, officers said they could smell am-monia and saw a box fan ventilating a front window.
Officers suspected it was a meth lab 
and as they called for backup, Heath Williams, 
25, walked out of the 
apartment and told of-
ficers crystal meth was being cooked inside, according to the report. He was also in posses-sion of crystal meth and reportedly high on the drug.
Police went inside the apartment 
where they saw Sean Nixon, 27, cooking 
meth and Denise Tyree, 38, lying on her 
bed, according to the report. Nixon and Tyree were also under the influence of the drug.
At about 1 a.m., 
Gainesville Police ar-rested Williams, Nixon and Tyree on drug re-lated charges.
All three were taken 
to the Alachua County 
Jail where Williams and Nixon remained as of press time in lieu of  
$150,000 bonds.
Tyree remained as 
of press time in lieu of a $175,000 bond. The 
additional $25,000 was 
tacked on because the 
events took place in her apartment.Police: 3 arrested on drug 
charges, connected to meth
By Cresonia Hsieh
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Heisman trophy winners Tim Tebow, 
Steve Spurrier and Danny Wuerffel are no 
strangers to students. Their names are men-tioned in conversation, used in articles and even carved on plaques outside Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
But UF professor Emilio Bruna wants to 
add more names to that dialogue.
Bruna started a Change.org petition 
about a week ago in hopes of adding stat-ues of UF Nobel Prize winners.
“It’s just about trying to get the same 
kind of high profile for our academic stu-dents as well as our athletic students,” Bruna said.The petition titled, “How About Statues 
To Honor UF’s Nobel Laureates?” seeks to 
honor UF science alumni Robert Grubbs 
and Marshall Warren Nirenberg.
Nirenberg received a Nobel Prize in 
physiology or medicine in 1968 for his work 
in genetics.
In 2005, Grubbs won a Nobel Prize in 
chemistry for the development of the me-tathesis method in organic synthesis.
Both alumni received their bachelor’s 
and master’s degrees from UF.
UF accounting junior Luis Montoya, 20, 
is one of more than 60 supporters who have signed the petition so far.
“Being a Gator is about seeing those 
from before you,” Montoya said.
In addition to seeing these statues, Mon-
toya said he would like to see more famous alumni attend speaking engagements at UF and network with current students.
There are no plans currently in place to 
add the statues.Petition proposes statues 
for UF’s Nobel Prize winners
Willams
Nixon
Tyree
NATIONAL
NEWS
“It’s just about trying to get the same 
kind of high profile for our academic 
students as well as our athletic students.”
Emilio Bruna
UF professorThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Rubio the strongest 
candidate the GOP 
has in the race
TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORGood god — another day, another campaign announce-
ment. This is starting to get out of hand. There’s what, 18, 19 months until the election?
Keeping in mind there’s more than a year and a half 
until the big day, we promise we’ll find something else 
to talk about as soon as we’re done with this editorial. But first, we have to talk a little bit about Marco Rubio.
Marco Rubio, like Hillary Clinton, has hinted at a presiden-
tial campaign at several junctures over the past few weeks. His Twitter — “Big News is Coming” — was one of the many public figure and corporate accounts to abuse Sunday night’s “Game of Thrones” premiere. 
Well, the big news came. Rubio made it official Monday at 
6 p.m. in Miami, the freshman senator’s hometown, and the place he first entered politics in 1996 on Bob Dole’s presidential campaign.
Our general stance? He’s the most realistic Republican candi-
date to announce so far. 
Whatever you think of his politics, Rubio’s story is compel-
ling and will definitely work to his advantage over fellow Re-publican candidates, if not in the general election. His parents came from Cuba. He once claimed it was during the period of mass exodus following the Cuban Revolution, but it turned out they arrived in 1956, three years before Fidel Castro took power. Still, his parents are just as much the political exiles they’d be if they fled the island later on.
He attended UF and was active in Florida Blue Key, and he is 
currently representing Florida in the U.S. Senate.
Since then, Rubio has made a rapid political ascent and has 
often defied odds and the Republican Party elite in the process. In 2010, for example, Rubio decided to run for Senate. Problem was, a then-Republican Charlie Crist was the Grand Old Party’s choice for the seat. Party elites told him to wait his turn; he told them to shove it (figuratively speaking, we assume). With the help of his mentor — and potential presidential rival — Jeb Bush, Rubio rose out of practically nowhere and defeated Crist.
Rubio stands a pretty good chance for a hefty bunch of rea-
sons. His personal narrative embodies family and free enter-prise, values that make up the rich ideological ground of Ameri-can conservatism. He’s still squarely in the GOP’s hard-right camp. In his eyes, there isn’t any room for social liberalism. Rubio doesn’t support abortion, same-sex marriage or relaxing drug laws.
Overall, the biggest advantage Rubio has is his heritage. Part 
of why Republicans lost the White House in 2012 was because they ignored America’s Hispanic population. By choosing to an-nounce in Miami, Rubio signaled that he’s going after this base, which is unlike fellow Cuban-American Ted Cruz, who decided 
to pander to the religious right. Rubio will have to reconcile 
with the mainstream GOP — once, he kind of got in trouble 
with fellow conservatives for drafting a comprehensive immi-gration reform bill (which he later abandoned when the House didn’t take up the cause) — but, assuming he can do that, Rubio 
is the strongest Republican candidate out there yet. His cam-
paign is more electable than Rand Paul’s quasi-Libertarianism 
or Ted Cruz’s evangelical pandering.Column
Last Thursday, The New York Times published an 
article about Orthodox Jewish men refusing to sit next to women they are not related to when 
boarding planes. This raises the question: At what 
point does one person’s religious freedom end 
and another’s basic rights begin?
While many Orthodox Jewish rabbis have con-
demned the practice of refusing to sit next to women on planes, some continue the practice. These have even resulted in up to 11-hour delays as passengers refuse to switch seats in protest.
Obviously, seating preferences need to be communi-
cated to the airline in advance. Women can’t just be ex-pected to bend to someone’s whims because of religion. It is not their responsibility to move, particularly if that woman sought to reserve a specific seat for whatever 
reason. Maybe she wanted an aisle seat, or maybe she 
wanted to sit in the emergency exit row to get more leg room. If the airline expects people to move, it must offer them a similar seat.
Modern religion doesn’t give one the right to incon-
venience others or change what they do. The idea that women who are seated next to Orthodox Jewish men must move is sexist. Now, if someone asks politely, that’s fine, but they have to be OK with the other person 
refusing to move. They certainly cannot keep a flight 
from taking off because their seating preference was not accommodated.
Most people agree that the burden is on the person 
with the religious seating preference to figure out the 
seating arrangement ahead of time or ask politely. Peo-
ple who travel with children have to deal with the same thing — either checking in ahead of time or relying on the politeness of the other passengers to accommodate 
their preferred seating. This means they try to avoid 
wasting time during boarding or potentially delaying a flight.Overall, this is not unreason-
able. But once their seating prefer-ences start delaying flights, it be-
comes a problem.
Luckily, this sort of seating pref-
erence seems to be decried from 
within the Orthodox Jewish com-
munity, but it mirrors what is going 
on with the Christian right in the U.S., which has started emphasiz-ing the need to protect the Judeo-
Christian heritage of the U.S. This causes religious pref-
erences to turn extreme.
Ted Cruz called supporting marriage equality a gay 
“jihad,” comparing activists to terrorists, and interpret-
ed the first amendment as a “God-given right to seek 
out and worship God.” According to a Pew Research 
survey, Christians currently make up 78.4 percent of the U.S. population. 
No one is trying to take away Christians’ rights to 
express their religion; odds are if they did, it would be 
unsuccessful given how many Christians there are in 
the U.S.
Religion should not be accepted as an excuse for 
denying the rights of others — whether it’s through 
racism, sexism or homophobia. Just as women having 
the right to sit where they want on a plane does not take away the rights of Orthodox Jewish men, marriage equality does not take away the rights of the Christian right to marry who they want to marry. Using religion 
to back up unfair laws does not make them any less 
discriminatory. 
We as a country need to be very careful about what 
we will let religion excuse because it is often an indica-
tion of a larger problem. 
Nicole Dan is a UF political science freshman. Her 
column appears on Tuesdays.Time to stop justifying discrimination with religionTUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
As California scrambles to 
conserve water during a historic drought, one 
multinational company is 
continuing to take huge 
gulps of the state’s water for prof-it. Nestle Waters North America, 
a subsidiary of food and beverage 
company Nestle, has been tapping California’s groundwater to sell in plastic bottles for its Arrowhead and Pure Life brands.
Essentially, Nestle has been taking water 
from the state’s natural underground aqui-fers and selling it. In a time when Califor-nians are facing emergency mandates to 
reduce water usage by 25 percent, it is ap-
palling Nestle is still permitted to drill and sell this precious resource.
It would be easy to spend the rest of this 
column pointing ﬁ  ngers at Nestle — which, 
by the way, has a CEO who once said water 
is not a basic public right — but that would be ignoring the real problem. We should re-ally be blaming a governmental system that 
failed to regulate and protect California’s 
natural resources.
Until recently, California had no existing 
laws that regulate how much water can be pumped from underground aquifers, which 
have been gradually drying up across the 
state. 
Not only could California landowners 
drill as much groundwater as they want-
ed, but also they weren’t usually required 
to disclose the amount of water they were taking. Even when they did report the num-bers, public access to the records is highly restricted. Recent laws that are intended to 
correct this issue may not even take effect 
until 2040.
Nestle easily beneﬁ  ts from this regulatory 
oversight. It has a longstanding partnership 
with the Morongo Band of Mission Indians 
and pumps water from underground wells on the tribe’s reservation. Basically, Nestle can take as much water as it can afford, even while California residents face water 
rationing.
This is pretty ridiculous considering the 
fact that groundwater provides almost 60 
percent of the state’s water supply during a 
drought year. It is astounding state ofﬁ  cials 
have done so little to preserve these valu-able underground aquifers and instead have allowed a corporation to lay claim to them.
Nestle, the largest producer of 
bottled water in the country, used 705 million gallons of water from California last year.  The company uses a California national forest as 
one of its water sources, and it is 
currently being investigated by the U.S. Forest Service for using an expired permit. The investigation would be promising news if it had 
actually occurred when the permit expired, which was in 1988.
It is disappointing and completely unac-
ceptable that both Nestle and the forest of-
ﬁ  cials ignored the expired permit for nearly 
three decades. By not renewing the permit, Nestle continued its operations without hav-ing to undergo an environmental review, which is incredibly important when you’re 
pumping water from a national forest.  This 
responsibility should have been handled, yet ofﬁ  cials are only now deciding to “investi-gate” the issue.
It is ultimately up to the people of Cali-
fornia to convince their government to stand up for their resources, but it is time for all of us to think about how the bottled water industry affects our environment.
According to the National Resources De-
fense Council, more than half of all Ameri-cans drink bottled water, and about a third drink it regularly. 
As consumers, we need to be wary of 
buying into such a wasteful and misleading industry that sells a product that has never been proven to be safer or purer than tap water. 
This industry does not deserve to have 
unchecked access to our country’s water supply.
California’s water should remain with the 
people of California, not with a company that exploits the environment to sell glori-ﬁ  ed tap water. 
States nationwide should learn from Cali-
fornia’s mistakes and do more to protect this 
precious resource.
Water is the public’s right, not a corpora-
tion’s right. 
Hopefully it will start to be treated that 
way.
Moriah Camenker is a UF public relations 
senior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.Water belongs to people, not companiesColumn
Since last Fall, the Task 
Force on Sexual Assault has worked tirelessly to draft a formalized and comprehensive 
series of recommendations to more effectively address the pervasive issue of sexual as-sault on campus. The interim report, published in Decem-ber, emphasized the pressing need to reform the campus ju-dicial process, expand existing educational and training programs, and 
provide more accessible and transparent 
resources. Brown University President Christina Paxson approved and set in motion the implementation of most of these recommendations, as she noted in a Jan. 22 community-wide email.
Last Tuesday, the task force published 
its ﬁ  nal report containing 12 main new recommendations. These suggestions 
included a uniﬁ  ed university policy on 
sexual- and gender-based harassment, sexual violence, relationship and inter-personal violence and stalking called the “Policy,” as well as the creation of a Title IX Ofﬁ  ce overseen primarily by newly appointed Title IX Program Ofﬁ  -cer Amanda Walsh.
In its extensive 63-page ﬁ  nal report, 
the task force does well to articulate the substantial progress this academic year and address its three primary responsi-bilities: sexual assault prevention, stu-dent support, and advocacy, policies and procedures for sexual misconduct. Nine of the 12 total recommendations set forth in some way involve Walsh, who must “oversee, coordinate, and es-
tablish regular communication among 
ofﬁ  ces and staff members involved in Title IX compliance,” Paxson wrote in an April 2 community-wide email.
The task force recommends the Title 
IX Ofﬁ  ce serve as the central resource and primary arbiter of the “Policy.” As the task force notes, the Title IX Of-ﬁ  ce should be charged with enforcing a 
standardized process and protocol sur-
rounding complaints of sexual assault, overseeing the training and education of appropriate university personnel and disseminating information to the community and university committees. These particular recommendations un-derscore a concerted effort by the task force to pair clear institutional structure with a transpar-ent and centralized point of oversight, cutting through the unnavigable administrative 
maze of the past.
These far-reaching struc-
tural changes will be paired 
with mandated educational programs for students, staff and faculty. To continue the conversation beyond cam-pus, the task force also rec-
ommends that Paxson appoint a senior 
ofﬁ  cer to the statewide task force on 
adult sexual assault. The ﬁ  nal report demonstrates substantial progress in the ongoing and invaluable conversa-tion surrounding sexual assault on cam-pus. While the initial formation of the task force could have very well yielded marginal results, its transparent pro-cess, substantive recommendations and 
notable milestones underscore the true 
power of collaboration between students and the administration.
Sexual assault is undoubtedly a sen-
sitive and emotionally charged topic, and the various iterations of recommen-dations reﬂ  ect an effective reconcilia-tion of an amorphous and fragile issue with tangible solutions. The task force 
was able to balance structural changes 
and administrative centralization with sweeping educational programs that will allow for a heightened degree of aware-ness and engagement on campus and beyond. We strongly believe this uniﬁ  ed and standardized policy, paired with ex-panded and centralized resources, will go a long way in preventing future cases 
of sexual assault while also strengthen-
ing the support network for survivors on campus.
We urge Paxson and the administra-
tion to maintain their demonstrated fo-cus on the issue and swiftly implement the recommendations put forth by the task force, particularly the “Policy.” Paxson was able to implement the rec-
ommendations of the interim report in 
one month; we push the administration to stick to a similar timeline for this ﬁ  nal set of recommendations.
This column was written by the Edi-
torial Board of the Brown Daily Herald. A version of this column originally ap-peared on UWire.
Applauding eﬃ   ciency, accuracy 
of the sexual assault task forceUWire
The Brown 
Daily Herald
UWire
Moriah 
Camenker
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Brandon Fantozzi, a 20-year-old UF anthropology sophomore en-
rolled in Innovation Academy, poses for a photo on the first floor of Library West. A student on the pre-medicine track to become a physician’s assistant, Fantozzi said he was concerned about falling behind because most of his critical tracking courses are not offered online.
students with everything from the 
minor to fitting in classes to how to adjust to campus, said IA Assistant Director Ayesha Mian. The IA class-es are built into the curriculum, and 
most students are finished with the 
minor by their junior years. Students can go to college-specific IA advisers for questions about their major.
But despite advising, the nontra-
ditional calendar continues to con-fuse and cause scheduling conflicts for some students and officials.
Todd Best, an academic adviser 
for the Department of Computer and Information Science and Engineer-ing, said he has noticed concerns about the academic timeline. He said many professors in the engineering department don’t teach in Summer, so Best has had to work with IA computer science students to place them in the right Spring classes.
“When they come in with a lot 
of advanced credits, there’s not as many options,” he said. “It requires a little more creativity and plan-ning.”
Best said although he believes 
IA’s leadership has been good about tweaking the issues, the program still has an experimental feel to it.
Brandon Fantozzi, 20, switched 
from a chemistry major to an anthro-pology major at the end of last Sum-mer and still remains on the pre-med track with the hope of becoming a physician’s assistant. As the sopho-more juggles classes for his major and the pre-med track, he said he’s concerned about falling behind.
For traditional students who need 
to play catch-up, they have the free-dom to take more classes during Summer. But IA students can only take online classes or classes at uni-versities other than UF during Fall, their Summer equivalent.  
This presented an issue for Fan-tozzi because most of his critical tracking courses are not offered online. He’s signed up this Fall for Development of World Civilizations, the only anthropology class he could find online, and Intro to African 
Studies, a Gordon Rule course. While 
the two classes do count toward his degree, he will have to wait until the Spring to take organic chemistry and the more difficult science classes.
“If I buckle down, I can do it,” he 
said. “But I just don’t want to take three hard science courses in one se-mester and die.”
When presented with Fantozzi’s 
situation, Citty said that while it’s hard to assess it without all the de-tails, there’s not much the academy can do to help keep students in simi-lar situations on track.
“If they change their major and 
they put themselves in a situation that’s self-inflicted,” Citty said, “that 
becomes a little more difficult to 
work around.“
Another IA sophomore, Kaylie 
Kirby, 20, hasn’t had a problem tak-ing online classes for her accounting major during Fall semesters until last week, when she approached her adviser in the Fisher School of Ac-counting to discuss taking Principles 
of Marketing, Principles of Manage-
ment or Business Law this Fall. Her adviser told her she was no longer allowed to take classes in the Fall — even online classes.
This is because IA officials ap-
proached the school and told them to advise only the Spring-Summer plan, said Gary McGill, school direc-
tor and associate dean.
“I do know for sure that we were 
initially allowed to tell people they 
could also do online Fall classes but that we were told that that was an error and that we needed to stick strictly to our eight-semester Sum-mer plan,” McGill said. “That I know for a fact.”
McGill could not recall who or how the school was told to change its policy. But both Citty and Mian said they were unaware of any limi-tations for online classes in the Fall.
“We can’t restrict students from 
taking classes online,” Mian said. 
“I’m not aware of any restrictions.”
Regardless of the inconsistencies, 
some students have found IA’s aca-
demic offerings to be helpful.
“You have to walk in with an 
open mind,” Hammad Saber said. 
The 20-year-old industrial and 
systems engineering junior said En-gineering Entrepreneurship, which 
he took during his sophomore year, 
was his favorite class at UF. During the class, he and his classmates al-ternated between working as compa-nies looking for investments and be-ing investors looking for companies.
“The structure of that class is the 
most unique,” Saber said.
The courses change focus and 
become more involved as students transition through each semester. For example, the first course, Cre-ativity in Context, studies creativity and included abstract projects. Dur-ing a later course, called Creativity Practicum, students come up with ideas for a helpful product and then present a prototype at an end-of-the-
semester showcase.
May Niu, a 21-year-old UF in-
dustrial engineering junior, said the 
classes have helped with her major. The innovation component applies to a lot of majors, especially those with technology-focused programs.It is an important skill to learn and use in Gainesville, where startups 
continually sprout up.
“It’s like a second Silicon Valley,” 
she said.
But when it comes to majors 
without as much of an entrepreneur-
ial focus, it remains to be seen how applicable this minor will be. 
Editor’s note: Check back tomor -
row for part three of the series.IA,  from pg1Students face issues working with nontraditional IA scheduleCAMPUS
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF isn’t just a great place to receive an 
education: It’s also a great place to work.
Forbes’ first-ever ranking of “Ameri-
ca’s Best Employers” shows UF as ninth among public universities to work for and 
No. 121 overall. It also ranked UF Health 
No. 25 among health care providers.
Forbes partnered with Statista.com to 
survey 20,000 American workers to com-pile a list of the top 500 companies.
“Just to be on that list is amazing,” 
said Dr. David Guzick, the president of UF Health. “There are thousands of health systems out there.”
Guzick said UF Health ranking No. 25 
represents the cumulative efforts that ev-eryone has made over the years.
“I think due to the effort of a lot of peo-
ple, we have become more powerful as a functionally integrated academic health center,” he said.
UF can distinguish itself among uni-
versity health care providers, Guzick said.
“The University of Florida and its 
health system is one of three universities in the country where there are six health sciences colleges on the same campus as the parent university, which also is the 
home to the university-affiliated hospi-
tal,” Guzick said.
The other two are Ohio State Univer-
sity and the University of Minnesota.
He has been with UF Health for six 
years and said he is looking forward to the next six.
Another element that makes UF Health 
unique from other health care providers 
is that the hospital, medical schools and 
other health colleges are under common leadership and guidance.
“As a result of that, the hospital can 
invest not only in itself but in its faculty,” Guzick said.
Professor Richard Lutz said he came 
to UF because of its good marketing de-partment. He also said he liked the idea of 
starting a family in a college town.
There were times he could have found 
a better job, but not better colleagues, 
Lutz said.
“What has kept me here is the quality 
of my colleagues,” he said.UF and UF Health rated 
among best workplaces By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Office has 
launched an internal investigation following the 
release of a video showing officers driving an ar-mored personnel carrier pulling over a Gainesville 
man.
On Saturday, a sheriff’s office SWAT team 
pulled over Lucas Jewell, a 23-year-old Santa Fe 
College student, after he flipped them off. (Earlier 
this year, Jewell lost the Gainesville 
District 1 City Commission race.)
In an 18-minute video sent to 
the Alligator, officers told Jewell they pulled him over for making 
an improper hand signal. They also 
repeatedly asked whether Jewell’s 
girlfriend was performing oral sex on him, based 
on what it looked like from outside the car.
As a deputy looked at Jewell’s ID card, he told 
Jewell to stand between the armored personnel carrier’s headlights.
“Stand between the headlights where I told 
you to,” the deputy said in the video. “If I have to 
ask you again, you will be put in handcuffs and arrested for resisting.”The deputy told Jewell that “extending your 
arm out the driver side window of a vehicle and flipping someone off is an improper hand signal.” 
ASO spokesman Art Forgey said an armored 
personnel carrier is usually deployed for UF foot-
ball games at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. On Satur-day, the football team played in the Spring football 
scrimmage known as the Orange & Blue Debut.
Multiple times throughout the video, the offi-
cers accused Jewell, an economics sophomore, of 
receiving oral sex from his girlfriend.
“Do you see my pants?” Jewell asked one of 
the officers. “I don’t even have a 
boner. Like, I’m literally flaccid right 
now.”
Jewell told the officers his girl-
friend was sleeping and leaning 
against the armrest in his car.
During the video, one of the offi-
cers ordered Jewell to point his phone away from him, saying there are “firearms that are made of devices like that.”
After more than 10 minutes, the officers told 
Jewell he was free to go, but would receive a 
warning for performing an improper hand signal.
Editor’s note: Watch a shortened version of 
the video on the Alligator website.ASO investigating after video 
of armored vehicle traffic stop
LOCALTUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 Courtesy to the Alligator
Dixie Smith, a 20-year-old UF biology senior, performs a backroll 
stunt on her board on Lake Wauberg. “I’m an adrenaline junkie, ” Smith said. “I always need to be doing something. ”
Samantha Pollack / Alligator 
Pictured are some of the art pieces designed by UF art senior T aylor Adams. Adams uses ink and water to design patterns that she ar-ranges on wakeboards. She will have her first solo exhibition Friday at University T owne Center.
SHE IS ONL Y ONE OF TWO WOMEN ON 
THE UF WAKEBOARDING TEAM.
By Samantha Gutman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Self-proclaimed adrenaline junkie Dixie Smith is 
one of the only two girls on UF’s nationally competi-
tive wakeboarding team.
The 20-year-old was also the only woman from 
UF who competed in the Red Bull Rivals competi-tion at the Orlando Watersports Complex on April 4.
She serves as president of the UF Wakeboard 
Club and president of Wahines of the Waves, an all-female extreme sports club.
“I’m an advocate for women being represented in 
extreme sports,” Smith said. “I don’t think that we 
should be belittled.”
The biology senior, who is graduating this May, 
has earned herself some respect in the wakeboard 
scene over the past three years.
In landlocked Gainesville, she is allotted only 
15 to 20 minutes to practice wakeboarding on Lake Wauburg once a week.
“It’s definitely not nearly as often as I would like,” 
she said. “I could wakeboard all day, every day. By 
the end of 15 minutes, I’m just getting warmed up.”
Smith’s ability to balance extends beyond her 
wakeboarding abilities.
Her daily routine consists of attending classes in 
the morning, followed by volunteering as an ortho-dontics assistant at UF Health Shands Hospital, go-
ing to various meetings, working out at CrossFit and then heading home to study.
The busy soon-to-be graduate said she wants 
to take a year off after graduation before buckling down.
“I’m just trying to travel the world, get experi-
ence in the dental field and do as much as I can to 
live life to the fullest before I get serious with dental 
school,” she said.
Smith, who is heavily invested in the wakeboard 
club, said she thinks it will be in good hands once 
she graduates.
“I’m convinced that our members are the best 
members in the world,” she said.
Heather Bouchard, a biology freshman, who 
serves as wakeboard club historian, said Smith in-
spires her to work hard and get more involved.
“She puts her all into wakeboarding,” Bouchard, 
19, said. “Whenever we do something, she wants it 
to be the best and as big as it can be.”
Both women credit the organization with making 
them feel more comfortable while being away from home.
Bouchard is from Massachusetts and said the 
club helped introduce her to a lot of great people. 
Smith is from a town on Florida’s coast called 
Tequesta.
“I was afraid at first because I was away from 
home and the ocean, but UF Wakeboard Club taught me how to enjoy lake life,” she said.UF student represents women of 
extreme sports in April competition
By Samantha Pollack
Alligator Contributing Writer
The magic happens where ink 
meets water for UF art senior Tay-
lor Adams.
Combining her love for wake-
boarding and art seemed like the logical next step after working at Trophy Lakes in Charleston, 
South Carolina, all summer. 
She collected broken boards 
from the park and some of her 
brother’s old ones to use as can-vases.
Adams, 22, will have her first 
solo exhibition, “Wakezone,” available for viewing at Univer-sity Towne Center, 3345 SW 34th 
St., Suite 2, on Friday from 6 to 
9 p.m.   
“I would love to pursue this 
and design real boards for the in-dustry,” she said.    
Among shades of blue, purple 
and red, swirling and rippling forms emerge and interact with geometric elements to create a 
unique design pattern. 
Adams said she covers a piece 
of paper with water and drops ink 
onto the paper, causing random, fluid forms to flourish.She then photocopies the pa-
per and cuts and rearranges the pieces to create free-form organic 
shapes that she combines with 
geometric shapes.
Bethany Taylor, a UF assistant 
professor of drawing, taught Ad-
ams in her first art course, Work-
shop for Art Research and Prac-tice.
“I’ve seen her whole career 
progress,” Taylor said. “What I’m really enjoying is her use of draw-ing in the sculptural realm, but she’s also combining digital me-
dia with drawing and sculpture in 
really inventive ways.”
Adams said the harsh lines of 
the jumps and rails of a wake-boarding park inspired the geo-
metric shapes, and the fluid mo-
tion of water and the bursts of action of a wakeboarder influ-enced the organics shapes, creat-ing a contrast between the natural and symmetrical forms.
Recently, Adams was assigned 
a project to create a painting without paint.
She tackled it by producing a 
line painting where she meticu-lously wrapped string around a canvas. 
She said this project inspired 
her to create a new texture for 
her boards.
She decided to slide one of her 
ink-stain sheets under the string 
and photocopy it and — pleased 
with the end result — used that 
as a new pattern for her boards.
“I really enjoyed that creative 
process,” she said. “I kind of in-vented my own technique.”
Taylor said she loves that Ad-
ams is using utilitarian objects for designs for real wakeboards as well as a language of art instilla-
tion.
“On top of that, the way that 
she’s using mark and form to 
actually comment on the form-lessness of water but the very 
structured nature of the sport of 
wakeboarding is so interesting to me,” Taylor said.UF student finds her inspiration in 
wakeboarding for 1st solo art show“I’m an advocate for women being represented in extreme sports. 
I don’t think that we should be belittled.”
Dixie Smith
UF student
“What I’m really enjoying 
is her use of drawing in the 
sculptural realm, but she’s 
also combining digital media 
with drawing and sculpture in 
really inventive ways.”
Bethany T aylor
UF assistant professorTUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    
4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/
house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-22BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    4-14-15-25-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com   4-14-15-25-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    4-14-15-25-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● 
Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1590. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
● CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ●
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental 
School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D 
in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-
1294   4-14-15-10-2 
1BR Cottage $4952BR Cottage $650
Small Pet ok 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-15-14-2
FOR RENT: MIDTOWN.
Blocks from UF. 4BR/2BA, all appliances in-cluded, W/D, DW. Pets ok. From $1600/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    5-12-15-14-2
Efficiency apartment on horse farm $350/mo. Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and/or rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.     6-30-15-24-2Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.
Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:
352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com   
 6-9-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
5-12-15-9-2
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE
SUMMER/FALL 2015!Located at Campus Edge across the street from the UF Campus and SouthWest Rec. Please call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    5-21-15-12-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Beautiful, spacious apt for rent @ 2nd Ave Centre. Sublease June-Aug for only $570/month. Personal bathroom. Convenient lo-cation. Shared kitchen & living room.berni.schor@gmail.com or 954-600-4967   4-15-5-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Wanted, private br/ba, furn liv-ing room, condo end unit (Rockwood Villas) $375/m + util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d. Call George 904.874.5774    4-22-15-14-4Available August 1st. Large room, pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 min from Shands. 
Perfect for med, engineering or grad student. 
Large, quiet, lovely home. $500/mo + share 
utils. Please call 850-420-2122    5-28-15-
16-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
REDUCED FOR QUICK SALE: 7825 NE 49th Terr 1200 sq ft 2/1 Block Home on acre of land with detached garage/carpot and well w/irrigation system. 10 minutes from airport and 20 minutes from UF $87,000 352-281-5874      4-14-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
AFFORDABLE, QUALITY scrubs and com-fortable clog footwear. Online at www.hospi-talscrubsplus.com or by phone/fax at 1-888-978-4781.      4-14-5-10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 FurnishingsTUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.
Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.
Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers   352-771-6191   4-22-15-14-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           4-22-10-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-17-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part - Time WantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal      4-16-15-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part-time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th St.Veterinary experience ideal.    5-19-15-14
STAY IN GAINESVILLEFull/Part time openings 
Accounting Assistants
Linux AdministratorsSoftware/Web DevelopersMarketing CoordinatorCustomer Service Rep'sSales RepsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorWeb DesignerProofreaderCPA Product ManagerVideo TechPlease apply online atwww.gleim.com/employment.    4-20-15-10-14
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015
Babysitter wanted for four kids ages 6-12, 
now through summer and into the fall. Help at home and taking kids to after school/camp activities. Experience required. Resume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu.     4-14-15-5-14
SIMED is looking for full time, part time and PRN employees for our Pharmacy, Radiology & various medical offices. Check out our web-site, SIMEDjobs.com for more information on each position and to apply online.    4-22-15-11-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, FlCook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
Lifeguard (Certified) $11.37 hourlySeasonal position works part-time on weekends in a maximum security mental health treatment facility for adult males in Gainesville, Florida.  Successful candidates must have current active certification as a lifeguard, a valid Florida driver’s license, and must be able to successfully complete the required background screening for provid -
ing caretaker services.  Applications must be received online by April 30, 2015. To apply, log onto: http://peoplefirst.myflorida.com.   Under Alachua County, select Human Services Worker II requisition # 60957037. You may also contact Grady Carthon at (352)264-8248 for more details.   4-22-15-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Hiring for Summer
Apply Mon-Fri 9am-8pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10/hr + Incentive + Paid Training
Bilingual SPANISH Speakers Needed
http://www.bebr.ufl.edu/survey/hiring
4-17-15-6-14
Tech-savvy person wanted to help au-thor promote books on social media. Examples: set up a pre-crafted tweet and a retweet button of the first chapter of a book; format an e-book for publication on Smashwords; help author put up audio clips on the Internet, help with market -
ing on Facebook and Twitter. Much more. Willing to pay well for someone with the right skills. Call 225-3533.    4-15-15-3-14
We are looking for highly motivated,
responsible, hardworking
individuals for the
summer semester & beyond.
Positions include:
Floor Instructors
Receptionists
Kid’s Club Attendants
Housekeeping / Sparkle Crew
Zwurly’s Cafe
Internships also available 
Apply at www.ghfc.com/careers
and at any of our three locations
4-15-15-3-14
 L E A S I N G  A G E N T -  PT
Friendly, Energetic Person.
Customer Service Exp.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefits pkg
Must be avail. weekends.
Apply in person Hunters Crossing Apts
4830 NW 43rd St.       DFWP
4-22-15-9-14
Leasing Consultant - Part Time (Flexible scheduling offering 30 hrs/week + benefits) for The Retreat at Magnolia Parke in Gainesville, FL. Apply at www.maac.com   4-22-15-8-14Hiring Vet Techs. Animal experience pre-ferred. Salary commensurate with abili -
ties, full-time benefit pkg included. Apply at Jonesville Animal Hospital, 14145 W. Newberry Rd, Newberry.    4-20-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college stu-
dents.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/
ww   4-22-14-71-15
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 24 PetsTUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
By Luis T orres
Alligator Writer
@LFTorresIII
Entering her senior season, 
Lauren Haeger was a household 
name in the batter’s box.
This year though, Haeger’s 
dominance in the circle has been 
the story.  
As much as Haeger is known 
as a hitter, her performance in 
the circle this season has been the reason why she’s a contend-er for Southeastern Conference Player of the Year.
And one of the reasons why 
the Gators have a chance to re-
peat as national champions.
No. 3 Florida (40-4, 11-4 SEC) 
completed its second consecu-tive conference sweep as they 
beat No. 13 Kentucky (27-14, 
4-11 SEC) 2-0 behind another 
strong pitching performance from Haeger.  
Haeger is now 19-0 on the 
season with a 1.03 ERA after throwing her 13th complete game of the season.
“I’ve just worked really hard 
this year in the bullpen,” Haeger 
said. “Taking away playing ﬁ  rst 
base has really really helped me and helped me focus a lot more.”
Haeger worked out of trouble 
in the ﬁ  rst inning after the Wild-cats had two runners on base. Haeger walked two runners be-fore she was able to get Breanne Ray to pop out to ﬁ  rst base.
In the bottom of the inning, the Gators took a 1-0 lead after a Kirsti Merritt sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  y scored Kelsey Stewart from third base.
Merritt had a solid game de-
fensively in center ﬁ  eld as she made a couple of plays to rob Kentucky batters of hits.
In the top of the ﬁ  fth, Merritt 
ran to her left and snagged a ﬂ  y ball and then ﬁ  red to ﬁ  rst base to complete a double play.
But there was one play where 
Merritt buckled and allowed a 
ball to get over her head. It’s the 
one play that stuck in her mind after the game.
“It was a bad read by me,” 
Merritt said. “I’ll get better at those in practice, I won’t worry about that one ever again. It won’t happen again.”
It was one of the two hits that 
Haeger allowed in the game and she didn’t allow the ﬁ  rst hit until the ﬁ  fth inning.  
Other than that, Haeger was 
efﬁ  cient. She would need just three pitches to retire Kentucky in order in the top of the fourth.
In the bottom of the frame, 
Florida had a chance to extend its lead with the bases loaded. Coach Tim Walton called on freshman Janell Wheaton to pinch hit for Kathlyn Medina.
But Wheaton struck out 
swinging.
Justine McLean didn’t fare 
any better as she lined out to third to end the frame with all three runners on board.
But Florida didn’t waste the 
same opportunity in the bottom of the ﬁ  fth as Haeger hit a sac ﬂ  y to center ﬁ  eld which scored Stewart to make it 2-0 UF. Hae-ger just barely missed her 66th 
career home run as the ball fell 
into the glove of center ﬁ  elder Sylver Samuel just a couple of feet short of the center-ﬁ  eld fence.
With players of the caliber of 
Haeger and Stewart leading the team, Walton is happy with oth-er players stepping up and con-
tributing to Florida’s strong start 
to the year.
“I’m glad our team continues 
to compete,” Walton said. “Just watching them compete…we’re a team. We have a couple of su-perstars, but for the most part, we’re a team.”After how rough 
Florida’s men’s basketball sea-
son was, Mon-
day was prob-
ably the happiest day Billy Donovan has had 
in the last year.
Anthony Grant is 
coming home.
Florida hired Grant 
to be Donovan’s assistant coach after Matt McCall was hired away 
by Tennessee-Chattanooga on Sunday.
Grant and Donovan have a 
well-documented history, and their careers will likely be linked for the rest of their lives.
The two were assistants at 
Marshall together from 1994-96, 
along with assistant coach John 
Pelphrey, and the staff quickly became close friends. 
They all understood basket-
ball, loved the sport and had a passion for coaching. 
When Donovan picked up his 
phone in 1996 and heard UF ath-letics director Jeremy Foley on the 
other line asking him to help build Florida into a perennial 
basketball power, Don-ovan couldn’t imagine 
doing it without Grant 
and Pelphrey.
Grant would coach 
at Florida for 10 sea-
sons until 2006, when 
the ﬁ  rst of two National Championships marked the start of Grant’s 
phone ringing off the hook. 
There were head coaching jobs 
available, and Grant was a prime candidate. 
He’s relatable, compassion-
ate yet ﬁ  rm with his players, and Donovan provided the necessary endorsements.
Grant was hired by Virginia 
Commonwealth University in 
April 2006, and he was thrilled to 
have his ﬁ  rst head coaching job.
He worked hard on the recruit-
ing trail to bring talent to Rich-
mond, securing the services of 
future NBA players Eric Maynor and Larry Sanders. 
In his ﬁ  rst season, casual fans 
learned his name when his under-
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311INSTAGRAHAM
Wish Granted: Former Billy D 
assistant returns to Florida
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
After outscoring opponents by 
a combined 60-12 during its four-game homestand, the Florida 
baseball team is heading back on 
the road.
No. 8 UF faces No. 13 FSU  to-
night at 6 in Tallahassee in the 
third and ﬁ  nal regular-season 
game between the two teams. A live stream of the game will air on ESPN3.
The Seminoles (26-12) are 
in the midst of a four-game los-ing streak. They scored just four runs during a three-game series against Notre Dame after splitting 
a two-game midweek series with 
Florida Gulf Coast.
While Florida State has found itself in a slump as of late, Florida (28-9) is surging.
The Gators posted a .415 bat-
ting average during their week at McKethan Stadium and all of their starting batters have at least 
a .292 hitting clip.
“We work so hard on the 
cages and in the ﬁ  eld hitting,” 
said sophomore outﬁ  elder Buddy Reed, who’s batting .324 on the 
year. 
“We talk with coach all the 
time about our approaches. It’s 
the way we handle it at the plate.”
Florida did not name a starting 
pitcher for tonight’s game, but UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said after Sunday’s win against South Carolina that he is going to use 
the best available pitcher when it UF faces FSU for third, 
ﬁ  nal time this season
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15Marley Boerema / Alligator
Senior pitcher Lauren Haeger throws during Florida's 2-1 win 
against North Florida on April 1 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. Haeger tossed her 13th complete game of the season in the Gators' 2-0 win against Kentucky on Monday. She is 19-0 on the year with a 1.03 ERA.
Pitching leads UF in Kentucky sweep
Haeger is 19-0 this year
“I've just worked really hard 
this year in the bullpen. 
Taking away playing irst 
base really helped me and 
helped me focus."”
Lauren Haeger
UF softball pitcher
Follow alligatorSports on Twitter
For updates from tonight's baseball game between UF and FSU follow Ian Cohen @ICohenBUF head coach Jim McElwain will speak at Gainesville's Titletown Gator Club today as part of the Gator coaches 2015 speaking tour.
Five Gators earn Southeastern Conference honors
The SEC announced its weekly awards on Monday, and ﬁ  ve UF athletes were 
honored: Baseball's JJ Schwarz (Player of the Week), T ennis' Chase Perez-Blan-co and Brooke Austin (Freshmen of the Week), and softball's Lauren Haeger (co-Pitcher of the Week) and Nicole DeWitt (Freshman of the Week).14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
Stripped of his scholarship, 
some time away from golf and a 
new coach at the helm — this year started all sorts of ways for junior A.J. Crouch.
Crouch’s athletic scholarship 
was taken away during a disap-pointing sophomore season and he had to make a major life decision: stay at UF, or explore other options.
After choosing to give the uni-
versity another shot, Crouch has worked himself into first-year head coach JC Deacon’s system and help 
change the culture of the program.
Now a walk-on, Crouch plans to 
make the most of the opportunity 
while he still can.
“The first two seasons, he didn’t 
fit in too well with the team and his attitude was poor and I think it af-fected in his golf game,” assistant coach John Handrigan said. “This year, since JC arrived, we’ve tried to take a little bit of a different ap-
proach with A.J. and we haven’t 
worked on his golf game at all. All we’ve worked on is his attitude and trying to make him more positive and to believe in himself.”
Crouch’s scores on the course 
have changed dramatically from his first two campaigns with the Gators, but this success isn’t a new 
feeling for him. 
At the prep level, the Jackson-
ville native led the Bolles School to 
a state championship title in 2011 and was named the Times-Union All-First Coast High School Golfer of the Year twice.
Crouch started his collegiate ca-
reer in the fall of 2012 by competing 
in nine tournaments as a freshman, 
including all four events in the fall.
During his first year, Crouch fin-
ished tied for fourth in one tourna-ment and 11th in another but only cracked the top-25 once in the other seven tournaments he competed in. Crouch said that his freshman 
year was a part of a rough patch 
in his life — one filled with health 
issues and not living up to the aca-demic standards he had set for him-self.
“That really disappointed me, 
because I’d felt like I let down my dad in school and I felt like I let down my coach and myself and my teammates down on the golf 
course,” Crouch said. “The two of 
those combined was just tough, I felt like ‘What’s the point if I’m not going to get into the major my dad wants me too?’, and ‘I’m not play-ing as well as my coach wants me to?’, so it really just took a toll on me. And being in that mindset, it wasn’t like I was going to play good 
golf again thinking like that.”
Crouch failed to break into the 
starting five for the Gators until 
October of his second year at The Invitational at the Ocean Course in Kiawah Island, South Carolina.
That would be the only time he would see the greens in his second year.
“I really wanted to (have a re-
bound year), because I felt like freshman year was a let down,” Crouch said. “I really wanted to bounce back in the fall and that wasn’t happening. That made me feel even worse about golf.”
During the spring semester, 
coach Buddy Alexander told Crouch 
that he wasn’t going to compete in 
another tournament, and that he maybe should take some time away from golf.
“After that happened I was just 
like so much happier,” Crouch said. “I felt like golf was bearing down on me, and when he told me I wasn’t going to play it was a re-
lief.”
With some time away from golf, 
Crouch was able to focus on his 
classes in the Spring semester and think about his future.
But during his time off, his 
scholarship was taken away.
For a while, he thought of trans-
ferring to another school and hope-
fully getting another scholarship to 
play golf.
But Crouch felt he had unfin-
ished business in Gainesville.
“I was weighing the options and 
people were telling me ‘It’s okay if you transfer’, and come decision time I just couldn’t do it,” Crouch said. “I just love this school too 
much. My teammates, my coach-
es and I feel like even if I hadn’t played well this year or hadn’t won a tournament, I feel like it’d be the right thing to do for my family and for me to just give the University of Florida another shot, and I’m glad it’s working so far.”
Crouch came into this year with 
a brand-new head coach, and just like everyone else on the team, with a fair chance to play in a tour-nament. He didn’t change anything about his golf game in his time away from the course, but worked on focusing on the future, not the past.
“When I was a freshman I set 
all these high goals for myself, and you know when I started playing bad those weren’t going to come true,” Crouch said. “Just putting everything behind me was my only 
goal this year.”
Although Deacon hasn’t known 
Crouch for long, he has already 
seen changes on and off the course that he thinks have put him on the path to success.
Deacon and the coaching staff 
have seen Crouch move from a position where he wasn’t going to 
play golf again for the Gators, to 
one of the team’s most reliable ath-letes.
The biggest change his coaches 
and teammates say they’ve seen in A.J. this year, is that he is more fun to be around.
“I think he’s just a happier 
person,” senior J.D. Tomlinson 
said. “If you know A.J. off the golf 
course, last year he was very upset and this year he’s just a lot happier. He likes playing golf, he likes be-ing around people and I think that’s just contributing to how he’s been playing.”
Crouch has played in all but the 
first tournament this season for the 
Gators, winning the Florida Gulf 
Coast Invitational and placing sec-ond at the Sea Best Invitational in Jacksonville. He also secured a top-10 finish at the Desert Mountain In-vitational in March.
With all the doubt he faced early 
in his career, Crouch said he’s fi-nally proving to himself he can 
compete at a high level.
“This year, I think our team’s 
getting along really well. I’m driv-
ing the ball really well and I’d say the easiest way to be consistent is to drive it well,” Crouch said. “Get-ting off the tee you’re not going to be in terrible situations if you’re doing well there. And then just my 
mindset, my focus is there during 
the tournaments.”
Whether Crouch competes or 
not throughout the postseason, he is just happy to be playing golf again for the Gators.
“I knew I had the capability and 
the ability to play like I used to and then build on that,” Crouch said. “I 
really just had to get over doubt-
ing myself and that’s what kind of sparked this year.”
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Junior A.J. Crouch putts during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 14 at UF’s Mark 
Bostick Golf Course. After a subpar first two years on campus, Crouch has rebounded this season.
Back on course: Junior has rebound year after early strugglesBy Alex Maminakis
Alligator Writer
@alexmaminakis
Being a math major in college is 
no easy task. Devoting most of your 
time to playing sports can make it 
even more challenging. But senior Nora Barry has spent the last four years balancing those duties, both 
of which she has excelled at.
Barry, a Marcellus, New York, 
native, has started in every game 
since she has been a member of the Florida lacrosse program.
In her collegiate career, she has 
accumulated 116 goals and 33 as-sists. Barry has helped lead the 
Gators to three consecutive regu-
lar season conference champion-
ships and three consecutive NCAA 
Tournament appearances, includ-
ing one Final Four appearance her 
freshman year in 2012.
But wait, there’s more. Barry has done all of this while 
earning a degree in mathematics 
with a minor in Spanish. She will 
graduate from UF this spring and 
plans to attend graduate school at 
New York University for data sci-
ence, which Barry described as a 
combination of math and computer 
science.“Basically, when I came (to UF), 
I just wanted to go with what I re-
ally, really enjoyed in high school.” Barry said. “I knew I liked math but I didn’t know that necessar-ily I wanted to be an engineer or do anything specific, so I decided 
to do math in general … and I al-
ways planned on going to graduate school to kind of specialize.”
While a degree like math is un-
common among student athletes, 
Barry said her coaches and team-
mates have been very supportive of her and have helped to balance the two obligations as evenly as pos-
sible. She said the workload has 
taught her to use her time wisely.
“Our coaches are really support-
ive of our academics, they always 
say that’s the most important thing 
right now,” Barry said. “They’re 
always very, very supportive and 
I have pretty much everything I could ever need to be successful here, so it’s been a nice experi-
ence.”
Barry said the toughest classes 
she has had to take at UF have 
been graduate level math courses. Oddly enough, one course was 
called Introduction to Algebra, 
which sounds basic but Barry as-
sured is far from it since it’s still a graduate level course. And as for her minor in Spanish, Barry said she simply had room in her sched-ule and that it can’t hurt to know another language.
Now, as she wraps up her final semester at Florida and her final season playing lacrosse as a Gator, the three-time SEC Academic Hon-or Roll and recently named Big East Honor Roll recipient looks forward to her new endeavors of gradu-ate school and even more math to come.
“Math can be really, really frus-
trating. It even is to me, especially if you don’t understand it, but it can be really rewarding as well,” Barry said. 
“So I think that’s kind of why I 
stuck with it all this time.”
TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Senior midfielder Nora Barry (14) runs toward the net during Florida's 17-7 win against San Diego State on Feb. 20 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
LACROSSE
Senior midfielder, math major, preparing for life after lacrosse
“Math can be really, really 
frustrating. ... But it can be 
really rewarding as well."
Nora Barry
UF lacrosse midfielder
comes to naming starters for the foresee-
able future.
“It’s maybe not conventional,” 
O’Sullivan said, “but it works right now for us.”
Notes:  Florida is 13-14 against Florida 
State under O’Sullivan but has won eight of the last 11 matchups and taken two of 
the last three series (2012; 2014).Freshman catcher/designated hitter JJ 
Schwarz piled in the accolades on Monday, 
being named the Southeastern Conference 
Player of the Week and a Louisville Slug-
ger National Player of the Week. Schwarz belted seven home runs over four days in addition to a .529 batting average, 15 RBI, 12 runs and a 1.882 slugging percentage. 
Florida State leads the Atlantic Coast 
Conference in walks (236) and is second in on-base percentage (.402) and home runs (32) and third in runs scored (269).BASEBALL,  from pg 13O'Sullivan using best available 
pitchers for starting jobs
matched VCU squad knocked sixth-seed-
ed Duke out of the NCAA Tournament in the first round.
So when Alabama needed a head coach 
in 2009, Grant was the ideal candidate. 
He knew the Southeastern Conference 
and he knew the area.
The job was his.But something didn’t work out in those 
six seasons with Grant at the helm. 
There were injuries, off the court inci-
dents, and on the court letdowns. 
In 2012, the Crimson Tide made the 
NCAA Tournament for the first time since 2006, but fell to Creighton on a last-sec-ond heartbreaker in the second round.
Who cared if Grant – a parent’s coach, 
who you could trust to guide your kids – was a good guy if Alabama wasn’t win-ning? 
The blame fell on his shoulders, and 
he expected it. Coaches know what they sign up for.
How fitting that Grant’s final game at 
Alabama was against Donovan, who had 
been there with him through it all. 
After all, the Gators were the only SEC 
team that Grant was winless against.
Following the game, Donovan said 
that it would be a “big mistake” if Ala-bama were to let go of Grant.
“I don’t think people have any idea 
how great of a coach Anthony Grant is,” 
Donovan said on March 12. 
“He took over a very challenging and 
difficult situation. He had a couple of very 
talented players that really went through 
some disciplinary problems.”
Fifteen minutes earlier, Grant had just 
walked off that same podium.
He had just been asked if he had given 
any thought to whether he would be back on sidelines at Alabama next year.
“Haven’t given it any thought,” Grant 
said calmly into the microphone.
But he must have. Look at the situation Grant was in. It’s difficult to enjoy your job when 
you face consistent criticism, regardless of your profession. 
After the loss, Grant went home to his 
home in Tuscaloosa and sat down with his wife, Christina. 
He wanted to spend time at home with 
his family next year.
He wanted to move back to Gainesville, 
even if it didn’t mean coaching.
Fortunately for Donovan, next year’s 
Gators, the fan base and students, he’s 
back coaching at the one place that truly 
feels like home.
There’s no place like it.COLUMN,  from pg 13Grant was assistant coach at 
Florida during 2006 title run
Florida stat leaders
Josh T obias: Batting average (.400), Triples (four)
Harrison Bader:  Slugging percentage (.719), On-base 
percentage (.471), Walks (24)
JJ Schwarz: Home Runs (12), RBI (45), T otal bases (91)
Dalton Guthrie: Hits (52), Doubles (11)
T obias
 Bader
 Schwarz
 Guthrie
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015
By Graham Hack
Alligator Writer
@graham_hack24
With the ﬁ  nish line in sight, 
there’s no room for holding back.
Only one week remains in the 
UF gymnastics team’s season, 
and despite any nagging injuries, soreness or overall tiredness, the ultimate goal is merely days 
away.
There’s no reason to save 
yourself for later.
There’s no reason to leave gas 
in the tank.
There’s no 
reason to worry 
about short-term consequences.
For a senior 
like Rachel Spic-er, that carries extra weight. 
This isn’t just the last week of 
her season; it’s the last week of 
her career.
Gymnastics won’t even be a 
part of her life after this weekend. 
She plans on attending Parker 
University in Texas after she grad-
uates in December with hopes of becoming a chiropractor.
With that in mind, she is ﬁ  ght-
ing through the pain of a sprained ankle to ﬁ  nish out her collegiate career.
The senior sprained her left 
ankle — her dominant leg — in training on March 27 while prac-ticing her ﬂ  oor routine, a week 
prior to Florida’s regional compe-
tition on April 4.
As the ankle turned awkward-
ly, Spicer felt both the pain of the injury and the painful realization 
that this could be the end. 
Depending on the severity, 
this was something that could cut 
her ﬁ  nal season short.
She cried.
“They had 
to carry her off the ﬂ  oor,” coach Rhonda Faehn 
said. “She got an 
X-ray. I thought 
for sure she broke it and that she was gonna be done.”
But luckily for Spicer, she 
wasn’t done. 
With rest, the ankle could get 
back to full-strength in a month, maybe less.
But that wasn’t good enough.“It’s not like I really have time 
to play with for healing,” Spicer said.
After a few days of rehab, Spicer decided she would give the ankle a try. 
She trained on beam just one 
day that week and at ﬁ  rst com-pensated for the ankle during the routine. But she quickly realized 
she couldn’t maintain the proper 
balance by doing so, and instead decided to simply endure the pain.
“I kinda just had the mind-
set, like, ‘OK, I’m gonna do ev-erything normal and if it hurts, it hurts, but I’m gonna keep going,” she said.
She performed well enough for 
the coaches to allow her to keep her spot in the lineup and scored a 9.850 in the regional competi-tion. 
The toughest part was the dis-
mount, but because she only had to do one, Spicer knew she could hold on and stick the landing.
“It was painful, but I also have 
that kinda extra motivation to keep going because it is the end of (the) season, it is the end of my gymnastics career,” she said. “At 
this point, like I said, it’s kinda 
like ‘Let’s tape and go as long as it doesn’t affect my performance signiﬁ  cantly.’”
Faehn was amazed with Spic-
er’s determination.
“It was completely just her 
sheer will as a senior,” Faehn said. “She said there was no way 
she would be missing this com-
petition.”
And with only one ﬁ  nal week-
end left, there’s no way Spicer 
will be sidelined for the semiﬁ  -
nals, either. 
Her goal is not only to compete 
on beam again but to regain her spots on ﬂ  oor and vault, too.For her, the pain is insigniﬁ  -
cant — she can rest in May.
“I think I can push two more 
weeks out of my whole entire ca-reer of like 17 years,” Spicer said. “At this point it’s just pushing to 
the end.”
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Senior Rachel Spicer performs on the balance beam during the 
2015 Southeastern Conference Championships on March 21 in Duluth, Georgia.
Senior pushing through pain as national championship nears
GYMNASTICS
Rachel Spicer’s season high scores
Vault:  9.875 (Twice; Feb. 6 vs. Arkansas & 
Feb. 27 vs. Kentucky)
Balance Beam:  9.90 (March 13 vs. T exas 
Woman’s University; Also career high)
Floor Exercise: 9.925 (Feb. 27 vs. 
Kentucky)