We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 136 FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015
Receivers showcase talent during 
Spring, still need work
Florida looking for consistency out of multiple 
players, pg 14
UF med nonproﬁ  t to host ﬁ  rst Donut Dash
Participants in the 5K will eat a half-dozen doughnuts after the ﬁ  rst mile and a half of the race, pg 8.
Considering sex comment cards
Read Robyn Smith’s column on communication, pg 7.ONLINE
Check out feature of a local mobile 
hollistic veterinarian.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Jason Smith, a 38-year-old UF forest pathology associate professor, poses for a photo on the North Lawn 
next to Bert, the approximately 200-year-old Bluff Oak that was threatened by the College of Engineering’s Nexus building, a proposed expansion to existing teaching and research labs.
SAVING BERTSTATE
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Contributing Writer
State legislators are consid-
ering a new bill that would ban 
the sale of powdered alcohol in Florida.
The House bill (HB 1247) has 
one more committee to pass and its Senate counterpart (SB 998) has passed all of its committees, earning unanimous approval in each. A recent amendment to the House bill would make the ban applicable for only a year before having to be reapproved by the Legislature.
Sen. Gwen Margolis, the Sen-
ate bill sponsor, said she spon-sored the bill to avoid the nega-tive consequences that could come from using powdered alco-hol, or Palcohol.
Alaska, Louisiana, South 
Carolina, Utah, Vermont and Vir-
ginia have already banned pow-
dered alcohol.“People all over the coun-
try see this as a dangerous new high,” Margolis said. “We hear in other states people were snifﬁ  ng this stuff.”
Rep. Gregory Steube voted 
against banning Palcohol in the 
Appropriations Committee.
“It’s a legal substance,” he 
said. “It’s a legal product.”
Steube said he voted against 
banning it because no one could 
answer questions about safety is-sues related to the product.
“We have no evidence of 
what safety issues this substance 
may cause,” Steube said.
He also said the bill makes it 
a crime to purchase powdered al-
cohol but not to possess it.
“It’s just bad policy,” he add-
ed.
The Florida Alcohol and Drug 
Abuse Association supports a ban on powdered alcohol, said FL makes moves to 
ban sale of Palcohol
By Ansley Pentz and 
Ariella Phillips
Alligator Writers
Bruce Floyd has walked past 
the class of 1995’s time capsule 
every day for 18 years on his way to work.
When he goes past Ben Hill 
Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Monday, though, the capsule will be gone.
At 11 a.m. Saturday, the UF 
Alumni Association will open the capsule, which was buried nearly 20 years ago.
It has been sealed in a brick 
wall by the stadium since April 
1996.
Danita Nias, executive di-
rector and senior associate vice 
president of the UF Alumni As-sociation, said the contents will be unveiled at the Orange & Blue Debut tailgate. At least 500 people are expected at the open-ing in Emerson Alumni Hall.“We’re all going to be sur-
prised,” she said. “There is a lot of excitement.”
Floyd, 42, a member of the 
class of ‘95 and the social me-dia manager for the UF Athletic Association, said the capsule 
piqued his interest every day he 
saw it. 
Though he wasn’t involved 
in the initial burying of the cap-sule, he said he would have bur-ied his track number from his time on the UF team or a Nir-vana CD. Both sum up his time in college.
But a lot has changed in the 
last 20 years, especially in com-munication. He said his most vivid memory is using the Inter-net for the ﬁ  rst time as a senior in a tiny lab in Turlington Hall.
Floyd said he is excited to see 
what it holds.
“You’re supposed to be 
transported back, like a year-book,” he said.UF Class of ‘95 time 
capsule to be openedSEE BILL,  PAGE 4
By Zee Krstic
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bert towers at 81 feet tall and 
113 inches thick, and he has 
been rooted in the Gainesville 
community for nearly 200 years.
The bluff oak tree stands in 
the way of the College of Engi-
neering’s Nexus building, a pro-
posed expansion of the school’s 
teaching and research labs set 
to break ground in Fall 2016. As 
he faced the threat of removal, 
the UF Lakes, Vegetation and 
Landscaping Committee unani-
mously voted Thursday to re-
quire architects to attempt to 
redesign plans around him. The 
new plans would still have to 
be approved later by the same 
committee.
More than 20 students and 
even more faculty attended a 
committee meeting at 9 a.m. to 
advocate for 200-year-old Bert. 
Van Truong, a UF anthropology 
sophomore, helped Bert create 
his own Twitter account. She 
spoke in front of the committee 
How a small group helped a big tree
SEE BERT,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 136
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
  kwiggins@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
advertising@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  88° LOW  64°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Graduation Photos in the Butterfly 
Rainforest
Congratulations graduates! As you emerge from college, take your graduation photos amid the 
beautiful backdrop of the Florida 
Museum of Natural History’s Butterfly Rainforest, a can’t-miss living exhibit featuring hundreds of free-flying butterflies and birds from around the world. UF stu-dents receive free admission with a valid Gator 1 Card. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/
butterflies.
Artists’ Books Revealed
Come to the first floor of 
Smathers Library, Room 100, 
at 1 p.m. today to explore a dis-
play of contemporary artists' 
books presented by two of the 
most preeminent book dealers in the business, Bill and Vicky 
Stewart of Vamp and Tramp 
Booksellers.
‘The Two Musketeers’ opens at 
the Hippodrome Theatre
When a small acting company eliminates one Musketeer from their production of “The Three Musketeers” due to budget con-straints, the rest of the cast must 
sally forth bravely with only two. 
The classic tale of d’Artagnan and his sword-fighting friends is presented with hilarity, romance, wit and derring-do to spare. This high-comedy adaptation is a wit-ty send-up of Alexandre Dumas’ beloved adventure — think Monty Python meets Mel Brooks. 
The show opens tonight at 8 p.m. Student tickets are just $15 with 
a valid student ID. The show will run through May 3.
Senior Painting Exhibition
UF senior painters Jesenia Lopez and Lauren Moncalian will be having a duo show displaying their work at Superfun! Gallery today. Jesenia Lopez’s pieces de-pict her complications with cul-tural identity as a Puerto Rican raised in the U.S., and Lauren 
Moncalian utilizes self-portraiture 
to reflect her vision of her future. The gallery is located at 2033 NW Sixth St.
Lunafest
Local nonprofit Girls on the Run of Alachua County will be hav-ing its first LunaFest today at 
7 p.m. All proceeds will go to 
the organization and the Breast Cancer Fund. It will feature films by and about women. Hosted at the Hippodrome State Theatre’s cinema, it costs $30. For more information, go to lunafest.org/gainesville.
BugFest
Check out the UF Entomology Club’s annual BugFest open house Saturday from 2 to 5 p.m. at Steinmetz Hall behind the UF lacrosse facility. We’ll have bug-gy games, insect cooking and in-formative insect talks. You’ll also have the chance to talk with rep-
resentatives from various agricul-
tural clubs on campus. Come and learn more about the big, buggy world that’s out there.GSCW is recruiting executive 
board membersThe mission of Gators for Sickle Cell Warriors (GSCW) is to help 
the public become more aware 
of the impacts of sickle cell dis-ease and to push those affected to achieve more than they thought possible. Through social events, outreach and peer advising, we strive to create an educational yet welcoming and fun environ-ment for all. You do not need to 
be affected by sickle cell disease 
to join GSCW, but if you are or have been, this is an opportunity to support others, find a support system and stir a change in the Gainesville community. See the Facebook page for a link to the application. Questions? Contact us at scwarriorsuf@gmail.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Christy Pina / Alligator
T au Beta Phi will hold an unveiling ceremony for its monument, a metal bent, today at 4:45 p.m. next 
to Weil Hall.
By Moriah Gaynor
Alligator Contributing Writer
Better late than never, the UF 
chapter of a national engineer-
ing honors society is holding an 
unveiling ceremony Friday for its 
monument a year after its instal-lation.
Tau Beta Pi, an 
engineering honors society, will unveil the monument at about 4:45 p.m. next to Weil Hall on the southeast cor-
ner of Gale Lemerand Drive and 
Stadium Road.
Nicholas Bianco, the chapter 
president and a ﬁ  fth-year UF me-
chanical engineering student, said 
the monument will serve to rec-ognize the college’s accomplish-ments.
“We are a successful chap-
ter that’s gone and done a lot of things, but at the same time not a lot of engineering students have heard of us,” Bianco, 23, said.
The monument was built last 
spring close to ﬁ  nals, so there were no plans to hold a ceremony, Bianco said.
Michael Grifﬁ  s, Tau Beta Pi fac-ulty adviser, said the society had a monument near the Reitz Union 
when he was a UF student. 
He said he believes it was mis-
placed during the changes to cam-
pus.
Grifﬁ  s said the honors society 
has been working to get a new 
monument since he became faculty ad-viser in 2011.
“(The monument) 
really represents who we are,” Grifﬁ  s 
said. “It’s a solid foundation that we play a supporting role in soci-
ety.”
The statue is a metal bent, the 
national organization’s symbol. 
Various versions are found at uni-
versities around the nation.
The UF chapter was the ﬁ  rst 
in Florida, and it has won the R.C  
Mathews Outstanding Chapter Award nine times.
“In the way that a bent itself 
in its structure would support the load of a building,” Bianco said, “Tau Beta Pi uses it as a symbol 
supporting engineering as a duty 
and promoting engineering as a profession that is desirable and accessible.”UF engineering honors society to hold monument ceremony
CAMPUS
By Stella Heekin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jose Principe was in Singapore on sabbati-
cal when he found out.
The university awarded him the Teacher 
Scholar of the Year award for 2014-15. The 
award started in 1960 and is the most presti-gious and oldest faculty award UF has to offer.
“I was thrilled and very honored, but it’s 
kind of unexpected,” Principe said. “But you know, it’s a wonderful feeling.”
Principe is a distinguished professor for the 
College of Engineering in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. His stud-ies include areas in advanced signal processing and applications to brain-machine interfaces, which direct communication between a brain and an external device.
Principe believes the award represents an 
accumulation of the things he has accom-plished for the university. He has been with the research institution for 28 years and earned his master’s degree and Ph.D. at UF.
One of his students, Goktug Tankut Cinar, a 
student graduating with a doctorate in electri-cal and computer engineering at UF, said Prin-cipe always has his door wide open.
Cinar, 26, said Principe leads a large group 
of doctoral students from machine learning in electrical engineering to brain-machine interfacing in biomedical engineering. He lets students dictate what they study and helps guide 
them through whatever path they chose.
“He’s always there to 
guide you if you start to 
steer off the main path,” Cinar said.
Cinar’s project consisted of a machine 
learning a computational model for auditory perception, and he credited Principe’s guid-ance as a key to ﬁ  elding the model.
“To get the Ph.D., it is not just enough to apply it and get good results on certain tests,” Cinar said, “but you have to show your contri-bution to the ﬁ  eld, and that’s where he is very instrumental.”
Along with the recognition, the award also 
offers a $6,000 honorarium that Principe said was a great compliment, even though his re-search program has been fortunately well-funded.
“I have done this for many years, and I will 
continue doing it because I still enjoy it as if it was the ﬁ  rst day,” Principe said, “So I’m pretty happy.”
Check back on Monday for a story on Ann 
Christiano, UF’s 2014-15 Teacher of the Year.
Distinguished professor wins UF’s Teacher Scholar of the YearCAMPUS
Principe
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015
and the project manager, detailing 
his great personality.
“We’re trying to promote an 
ethic of sustainability for the entire nation, and this is not a precedence 
that we should set,” she said.
Truong was attending the NCAA 
championship game in Indianapo-
lis on Monday when she received a string of forwarded emails ask-ing students and faculty to attend Thursday’s committee meeting.
“They asked me to work some 
magic,” Truong, 19, said. “It was 
a great opportunity to get conver-
sation going on this issue, and so I humanized it, naming him Bert.”
Jason Smith, an associate pro-
fessor of forest pathology, spear-headed the movement to preserve the state’s third or fourth largest bluff oak by placing a sign on the trunk. He said the project man-
ager’s presentation didn’t take the 
tree’s well-being into consideration.
“I’ve traveled the world study-
ing trees and have seen many in-stances where really impressive ar-chitectural designs have been used to preserve trees,” Smith said. “It’s just a matter of people making it a precedence for priority.”
At the meeting, Cydney Mc-
Glothlin, the expansion project’s senior project manager, argued for the removal of Bert and 34 other trees in the area planned for the 100,000-square-foot building’s ren-
ovation. She explained that safely 
moving the tree wasn’t possible and that a new design couldn’t in-corporate keeping it. 
“I don’t see how we can build 
something on this site and keep 
something of this size alive,” she 
said. “You could make the building taller, but then I think it would be a completely different dynamic in architecture.”
McGlothlin said she believes 
moving the 200-year-old tree will be impossible because its roots are entrenched above various utility lines, including electrical, sewage and high-pressure steam valves. The committee denied her request to remove the trees.
Smith said he believes the tree 
is priceless and should be pre-served in any way possible.
“This is a unique species to this 
region in the U.S., and there’s very few left due to modern develop-ment,” he said. “This is a particu-larly ﬁ  ne specimen that is very, very old. It was here long before anyone else thought about all the 
things that were going to happen 
around it.”
The College of Engineering 
directed comment to UF spokes-woman Janine Sikes, who said all development projects pass through four separate committees for com-munity members to give input.
“We absolutely have the utmost 
respect for the tree as well as the folks who are trying to save it,” Sikes said. 
But she said she wasn’t sure 
they could design a building that avoided the tree due to the site’s proximity to the Reitz Union.
Smith said an online survey 
showed 98 percent of the roughly 
1,500 who took it supported a re-
design to save the tree. 
Truong said she is hopeful Bert 
will continue to inspire generations of UF students.
“At our university, we all grow 
together,” she said to committee members. “For a tree to have lived for so many years, I can’t imagine 
it not surviving us.”BERT,  from pg1Planner said moving 
tree would be impossible
Mark Fontaine, executive director.
Fontaine said he is concerned about its accessibil-
ity to minors and the potential for people to bring it to 
sporting events. In 2012, 41.5 percent of high school se-niors reported using alcohol in the past 30 days, accord-
ing to the 2013 Florida Youth Substance Abuse Survey.
“We have a signiﬁ  cant alcohol problem with young 
people in this state,” Fontaine said. “Something like 
powdered alcohol will make it more readily available, and we need to not be doing that in Florida.”
Some UF students are divided on whether powdered 
alcohol should be banned.
“I think that I can understand why they might want 
to ban it,” said Christina Wilson, a 22-year-old environ-mental engineering senior.
Wilson said powdered alcohol would probably be 
easier for students to bring into sporting events and may make it easier for underage students to drink. But she said that if legal, it would be something she would try.
“I’d probably buy it,” Wilson said.Harrison Paparatto, an 18-year-old physics fresh-
man, said he doesn’t think powdered alcohol should be banned because he doesn’t see how it’s different than liquid alcohol. Paparatto also said he doesn’t think a ban on powdered alcohol will prevent underage drinking.
“There are enough people who are overage who can 
buy alcohol that underage people could know,” he said.
Palcohol is not yet on the market. The earliest it will 
be available is summer 2015, according to the Palcohol website.BILL,  from pg1Underage exposure to it is a concern
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Little Lights of Mine
From left: Marquis Johns, 39, JoAnn Roberts, 26, and Angelo Grasso, 36, wait to cross Northwest 15th 
Street on University Avenue during a vigil on Thursday. A crowd of about 40 walked from the Christian Stu-dent Center to the Institute of Black Culture to Gator Wesley, praying for the Garissa University students killed in Kenya as well as Walter Scott, who was killed by a police ofﬁ  cer in South Carolina on Saturday.
FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 By Shalla Galanos
Alligator Contributing Writer
One day isn’t enough to celebrate 
the earth, so the UF Office of Sus-
tainability is dedicating the whole month.
The Office of Sustainability high-
lighted April as Earth Month for the first time Wednesday on the Plaza of the Americas.
Members of the UF Solar Decath-
lon Team showcased their model of a solar-powered house Tuesday as part of Solar Living Day. And Wednesday, the Office of Sustain-ability hosted Campus Earth Day.
There were various student orga-
nizations in attendance, along with free food catered by Gator Dining Services. There was also a Champi-ons for Change Awards presentation and a speech by UF’s Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Offi-cer Charlie Lane.
Over the past 11 years, UF has 
built more energy-efficient buildings, expanded bus ridership and greatly increased recycling, Lane said.
Even with these accomplish-
ments, Lane urges UF to continue working toward being more sustain-able.“What’s really important is that 
students who recycle, ride the bus or learn about composting will em-brace these actions for the rest of 
their lives,” Lane said.
Lane outlined the five ways that UF will be stepping up its sustain-ability efforts in the upcoming year. 
The first way, he said, is to add elec-tric vehicles to UF’s fleet and for 10 percent of vehicles to run on solar 
power in the next five-to-10 years.
In addition, Lane plans on creat-
ing new tools for faculty and staff 
to eliminate unwanted junk mail, expand composting on campus, in-
crease ridesharing, expand campus 
student gardens and build a food 
pantry for students in need.
Another way UF plans to increase 
sustainability efforts is to add a class 
on climate change as a part of the 
core academic program for under-graduates, Lane said.
Matt Williams, the director of the 
Office of Sustainability, said he was pleased with the turnout of the event and the organizations that partici-pated.
This year, more than 19 organiza-
tions participated, and eight awards were presented.
“(Campus Earth Day) provided 
great examples for how people can get new ideas and celebrate what they have already done,” Williams said. “It’s forward looking for what we can accomplish.”
The month’s next event will 
fall on official Earth Day, April 22. Shands’ Energy Team will hold an Earth Hour, limiting energy use.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Charlie Lane, UF’s senior vice president and chief operating officer, speaks to a crowd on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday about UF’s sustainability achievements and goals. His speech was part of Earth Month, which is the first of its kind for UF’s campus.CAMPUS
UF Sustainability hosts events to celebrate Earth Month 
By Richard Johnson
Alligator Staff Writer
rjohnson@alligator.org
Gainesville Police filed a sworn complaint 
recommending Florida wide receiver Chris 
Thompson be charged with misdemeanor sim-ple battery after he reportedly scratched and bruised his former girlfriend during an argu-
ment.Because police were not able to contact 
Thompson that day, a sworn complaint af-
fidavit was filed with the State Attorney’s Of-fice with recommended charges, wrote GPD spokesman Officer Ben Tobias in an email.
Shortly after midnight April 1, Thompson 
and his ex-girlfriend were arguing about a text 
message that Thompson received from another 
woman, according to a police report.
The former girlfriend had Thompson’s phone, according to the report. Thompson tried to grab it from the woman as she demanded he answer her questions. While trying to get the phone, Thompson grabbed the woman’s arms, which caused bruising and scratches on her arms and neck, according to the report.
The two were in a relationship that ended 
about four months ago, according to the report.
UF head coach Jim McElwain said Thomp-
son is excused from the team until the issue is resolved.
“That’s kind of how we’re dealing with it,” 
McElwain said Thursday. “We’ll find out as it goes forward, find out what goes on with it.”
It is the first conduct issue for the Florida 
football team since McElwain was hired as the Gators’ head coach in December.
Thompson is a 2012 graduate of Gainesville 
High School and has four receptions totaling 30 yards in his UF career. Police: Battery charge recommended for UF football player
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
We don’t know about you, but we just realized how close it 
is to the end of the semester and freaked out so hard we tem-
porarily lost consciousness. Seriously. Well, whatever — soon, we’ll all be off somewhere far away, doing what we do best and miss dearly: sleeping.
Until then, here’s your weekly dose of 
Darts and Laurels  
The shooting of Walter Scott and the accompanying video  
of it taken by a bystander has already become one of the pivotal events of 2015. After last year, when the country nearly tore itself in two with rhetoric over the deaths of Michael Brown, Eric Garner and Tamir Rice, this case was unique in its unity 
of response. 
There’s really no room for contention when you’re watch-
ing a man get gunned down on camera. What was seemingly a local and routine, if tragic, ofﬁ  cer-involved shooting became 
a haunting national disgrace demanding action. The ofﬁ  cer in 
the case was arrested on a murder charge and ﬁ  red from the 
department after his infuriating misdeed. 
All of this is thanks to a man named Feidin Santana, who 
began ﬁ  lming the altercation during his walk to work. He re-corded the now-infamous shooting and the aftermath, but he 
was understandably afraid to show it to anyone, even consid-
ered deleting it. Santana kept it until he heard reports of the 
incident, which didn’t match what he saw. That’s when he 
decided to hand over the video, casting light on a worst-case 
scenario of police abuse and brutality. Because he overcame 
fear and released this crucial evidence, we’re giving a LAUREL 
to Feidin Santana for ensuring justice will prevail.
Working from the viewpoint that homosexuality is an aber-
ration akin to mental illness, right-wing doctors and unlicensed mental health practitioners have made a big business out of 
conversion therapy. They set up medical centers and “pray the gay away” camps, banking on the promise that same-sex de-sires are something that can be cured. However, conversion 
therapy has no scientiﬁ  c basis, is inherently degrading and ﬂ  at-
out does not work. 
But that’s not all. The practice creates profound mental an-
guish, resulting in feelings of depression and self-loathing. Al-
though it is roundly rejected by the medical community, the 
practice remains legal. Gainesville’s own American College 
of Pediatricians supports conversion therapy as the best way 
“to change unwanted homosexuality and develop their hetero-sexual potential.” Gay and transgender teens are often forced to undergo conversion therapy by their parents — like Leelah 
Alcorn, the transgender teen whose suicide in 2014 forced the 
country to take a good, long look at how we treat people. 
On Wednesday, President Barack Obama spoke his mind on 
the matter: In an ofﬁ  cial statement, he condemned conversion therapy as harmful and pseudoscientiﬁ  c. We applaud this pub-
lic recognition of just how screwed up conversion therapy is, 
straight from the mouth of the leader of the free world. Here’s 
a LAUREL to the president for speaking out against this 
awfully abusive practice.
On Thursday, 30,000 tubs of Sabra’s classic hummus were 
recalled after numerous containers in Michigan tested positive 
for listeria, a potentially deadly food-borne illness. Now, as col-
lege students, we all understand how essential hummus is to 
our diets, right next to pizza and beer. We should be able to enjoy it without the worry of oncoming diarrhea and fever, or 
worse. So here’s a big ole DART to Sabra for instilling the 
fear of death inside our refrigerators.
That’s all we’ve got for this week, y’all. Here’s hoping you 
have nice, relaxing weekend to help prepare for the ungodly amount of sh*t that’s about to hit the fan.Gov. Scott’s Medicaid reversal puts politics ﬁ  rst
In a decision that should shock no one, Gov. Rick Scott 
reversed his decision to support expanding Medicaid to nearly 1 million Floridians this week. Scott supported expansion for two years but suddenly reversed course, leaving those who cannot afford insurance or do not 
qualify for the Affordable Care Act’s tax credits in a serious bind.
Naturally, Scott blamed the Obama administration for his 
change of heart, claiming the federal funding for Medicaid expansion is not as extensive as it once was. What makes Scott’s reversal so odd is the building momentum for Med-icaid expansion. The state’s business community is rallying around expansion and created the A Healthy Florida Works campaign. Chambers of commerce, businesses and business 
leaders are pushing Tallahassee to accept the federal funding 
and ﬁ  nally expand Medicaid. House leadership stood in their way, but as the legislative session started, it appeared Gov. Scott was on the side of the business community. Now, it appears he’s backtracked.
What’s causing Scott’s change of heart? Is it really the 
money, or is something else in play? 
Scott won re-election last year and is term-limited, so he 
doesn’t have another campaign to run. Or does he?
Last month, the Tampa Bay Times reported that Scott is 
interested in the U.S. Senate and that he may pursue the seat currently held by Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson in 2018. Yes, despite a majority of Floridians supporting Medicaid expan-sion, Scott’s decided to take the politically expedient avenue and backtrack. Supporting any expansion of a federal pro-gram like Medicaid possibly sinks Scott with the far right wing of the Republican Party, which will be crucial to secur-ing the U.S. Senate nomination in 2018.
In a recent poll conducted by Public Policy Polling, only 
Republicans oppose Medicaid expansion. Coincidence? Scott’s obviously putting politics ahead of the people he gov-erns. But after four-plus years in ofﬁ  ce, should we expect anything less from him?
There’s no guarantee Scott will run for Senate, but if his 
eye is on his own political future and not the health of a mil-lion Floridians, his decision makes perfect sense. Blaming the Obama administration for his re-fusal to expand Medicaid is one more feather in his cap that he can use to rally conservatives to his campaign. For Scott, this is a calculated move 
with an eye to the future, and Florid-
ians cannot ignore his actions.
Scott rode into Tallahassee op-
posing the Affordable Care Act after having run a company guilty of com-mitting the largest Medicare fraud in 
U.S. history at that time. Now, even with support from the business community and a majority of Floridians, Scott has returned to his 2010 campaign rhetoric.
The reversal has dire consequences for a state with a mil-
lion residents who could beneﬁ  t directly from Medicaid ex-pansion. A recent study by the Urban Institute found that Florida stands to lose $66 billion in federal funding by not expanding Medicaid, the most of any state. Hospitals could lose $22.6 billion, second only to hospitals in Texas. Refus-ing to expand Medicaid has consequences far beyond those who cannot access affordable health care. It’s time both Gov. Scott and opponents in the state house look at the data, the 
support among businesses and the one million Floridians 
counting on expansion.
According to A Healthy Florida Works, businesses had to 
assist in covering $3 billion in hospital costs for those who couldn’t afford their own care. They essentially chalk it up to a hidden tax on businesses and Floridians with health insur-ance, and it’s something that’s completely avoidable. Expand Medicaid and the hidden tax disappears, hospitals receive the Medicaid reimbursements they’re losing and one million 
Floridians gain health insurance.
Expansion is a win for individuals, hospitals, businesses 
and Florida. It’s time Scott and the House leadership put 
aside the politics and do what’s right. Maybe then, a few Floridians will actually take a Scott for Senate campaign seri-ously.
Joel Mendelson is a second-year UF political campaigning 
graduate student. His column appears on Fridays.FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Joel Mendelson
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
Dear UF Institute of Food and Agricul-
tural Sciences,
As students of UF, we want to make it 
clear that we fully support the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences’ stated mission to “sustain and enhance the qual-ity of human life.” Additionally within 
IFAS, the School of Forest Resources and 
Conservation states its goal of “educating students and citizens about the sustainable management and conservation of natural resources.” As students who strongly sup-
port both of these stated goals, we there-
fore must speak out and condemn IFAS’ actions in supporting the ecologically cata-strophic Plum Creek development project 
that is slated to take place here in Alachua 
County and demand that IFAS withdraw its support.
As those who head IFAS are aware, the 
Plum Creek timber company has been plan-
ning this project for some time. Last year, 
the company made it clear that the plan would entail cutting down sizable acres of corridor habitat that is important to wild-life in order to make room for a develop-
ment that would dramatically increase 
runoff and pollution into nearby wetlands, putting listed species like Eastern indigo snakes and gopher tortoises in 
jeopardy. Black bears would also 
be needlessly exterminated un-der the plan.
One of the foundational justi-
ﬁ  cations that Plum Creek offers 
is that jobs will be created in 
eastern Alachua County, a more economically-depressed district. However, the notion that this 
plan would counteract poverty is absurd. 
Many of the long-term jobs that the Plum Creek timber company projected would be created require advanced college degrees, putting these positions far out of reach for 
the vast majority of local residents. If out-
of-area people who are hired subsequently move into Hawthorne, gentriﬁ  cation would follow in their wake, making life even more difﬁ  cult for those already subsisting there 
on low incomes.
This proposal is a disaster from an envi-
ronmental and ecological perspective, yet 
Plum Creek is able to boast that they have the support of IFAS; 
they have even had IFAS faculty vouch for the company via their so-called grassroots campaign, “Envision Alachua.” It is no se-
cret that IFAS will beneﬁ  t mate-
rially in exchange for support-ing this development proposal, as was described by an IFAS 
spokesperson at an “Envision Alachua” community workshop in February.
We understand that IFAS may be un-
derfunded. However, this does not excuse supporting a project that directly contra-
dicts the stated goals of both IFAS and the 
School of Forest Resources and Conserva-tion. Plum Creek would be an ecological catastrophe for Alachua County. Moreover, it would not enhance people’s quality of 
life, and supporting it certainly doesn’t 
educate students or citizens about the im-portance of sustainable management and conservation. 
We realize that Plum Creek has with-
drawn last year’s plan and intends to draft a new one. However, IFAS should serious-ly reconsider its support of the destruction previously envisioned by Plum Creek and 
make it clear that no amount of ecologi-
cal destruction or jeopardizing of imperiled species will be endorsed in the future.
Until IFAS withdraws its approval for 
Plum Creek and sticks to supporting le-gitimate conservation measures, we do not see ﬁ  t to take IFAS and SFRC seriously as institutes that truly care about people or the environment.
Sincerely,
UF Students for a Democratic Society
I’m going to let you in on a secret. Little black 
books are outdated in the digital age. So, for record-keeping purposes, I keep a Word 
document that lists all the people I’ve ever 
hooked up with.
There are a few reasons for this. Mainly, I’m 
very forgetful and feel bad about myself when 
the doctor asks how many sexual partners I’ve 
had and I have to sit there counting on ﬁ  ngers, trying to remember.
So, I felt reassured and validated when Vice News ran 
an article in which the author admitted she keeps a spread-
sheet listing all her sexual encounters. Mostly because no 
matter how ridiculous I might feel keeping a basic list, at least I don’t have a spreadsheet.
The premise of the article was this: “I sent everyone I’ve 
ever had sex with a survey to ﬁ  nd out how good I am in bed.” This is basically the world’s best idea and something I’m going to do, stat.
I think it’s a cool idea to get opinions from past partners, 
and an anonymous survey would allow people to say things 
that they might not feel comfortable saying in person.
I tweeted the story out. Luckily — or unluckily, depend-
ing on whether you factor in all the other weird stuff I 
tweet — my current partner follows me. The next day I 
got a text saying, “I saw your tweet about a survey to all 
the people I’ve slept with and I think that’s genius, but I think it’s really only necessary for someone you’re cur-rently having sex with because everyone likes different things.”
Then he asked for feedback. Insert some heart-
eye emojis because communication is key, y’all.
I realized even though I preach open com-
munication between partners, I’m really bad at following my own advice. I’m more of a, “Good job, champ. High ﬁ  ve,” type than someone who 
really analyzes how good or bad things are.
Mostly because, well, how do you do it? It 
sounds like a good idea in theory, but I still struggle with 
how to actually bring it up without being mean or demand-
ing or male-ego boosting.
While the idea of a survey sounds cool, that’s probably 
the most inefﬁ  cient way possible. So, do I leave comment 
cards for people to complete on the way out? Am I sup-posed to ask them to rate my performance every time we 
have sex — 10 out of 10, would do again?
You also have to factor in that sex can be a pretty touchy 
subject. You obviously don’t want to give constructive crit-
icism in a mean way, but if there’s something your partner 
does that you really don’t like, or if they’re not doing some-
thing you want, you have to bring that up.
Communication can make or break a relationship, too. 
I think communication styles can vary, and that’s key. But you’ll have to communicate with your partner to see how 
they want to talk about it.
I have a friend who was considering sleeping with someone, and she likes their in-person conversations. She 
told me the openness between them and how much they talk about things, even before having sex, is what makes 
her comfortable with him.
I know somebody else who told me before he and his 
partner had sex, they texted extensively about what the 
other liked and wanted out of it. By the time they actually did hook up, he said all the buildup and the connection 
made the sex amazing.
So, there are a lot of ways you can talk about things. 
Unfortunately, this is probably a question that has no right 
or wrong answer. Is communication important? That one’s 
a deﬁ  nite yes. But as for how to communicate? That’s going 
to differ from person to person.
My way of communicating, especially about something 
as sensitive as sex, is going to be different than yours. You might prefer texting while I prefer face-to-face. I might 
rather talk about things as they come up while you might 
want to have a weekly run-down.
The short answer is: It doesn’t matter how you do it, as 
long as you do it. If you feel uncomfortable telling someone 
what you like or dislike, what turns you on, what your fa-
vorite position is or what your top fantasy is, you probably shouldn’t have sex with them.
Oh, and to answer your question: I’m deﬁ  nitely printing 
up some comment cards.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism junior. Her column ap-
pears on Fridays.Considering sex comment cards, and why communication is so importantColumn
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015
By Marcella T ortorici
Alligator Contributing Writer
If Homer Simpson were real, he 
would be first in line at the Global 
Medical Training’s 5K on Sunday.
UF’s Global Medical Training, a 
local chapter of a medical nonprofit, 
is hosting its first Donut Dash at 9 
a.m. at Albert “Ray” Massey West-side Park and Recreation Center, at 1001 NW 34th St.
During the race, participants will 
run a little more than a mile and a half, stop to eat a half-dozen dough-nuts, and then continue the race, said Gavin Ajami, GMT president.
Participants can register through 
the organization’s website. It is $20 to pre-register and $25 the day of the event. The fee includes a half-dozen doughnuts, water through-out the race and a T-shirt.
First- and second-place winners 
will receive a full-semester Study Edge gold membership, and the 
third-place winner will receive a GMT T-shirt.
Proceeds will benefit the organi-
zation, which provides free medical and dental services to medically 
deprived communities in Central American countries. Kaplan Educa-tion Center is the primary sponsor and donated a course to the group, which auctioned it off for $1,800.
Ajami, a 21-year-old UF applied 
physiology and kinesiology junior, said he is expecting roughly 250 
runners. Group members are hop-
ing to raise $500 to $1,500 for medi-cations and medical equipment for mission trips throughout the year.
“This will help us ensure that no 
one in Central American communi-ties goes without the medications that they need,” said Dori Trenter, vice president of international ser-
vice of GMT and a 22-year-old UF 
health science senior.
The organization plans to host 
this event annually but advises participants to prepare for a dozen-doughnuts challenge.UF med nonprofit to 
host first Donut DashCAMPUS
By Lilianne Busto
Alligator Contributing Writer
Annette Ville found dance at the age of 4 through 
her grandmother, a professional dancer years ago in 
Germany.
Floridance’s Spring showcase is a fitting way for 
her to say goodbye to the stage. Ville, a UF biochemis-
try and molecular biology senior, is one of the seniors 
preparing for their last show.
Floridance, UF’s student-run dance company, is 
performing “Away We Go!” at 7:30 p.m. Saturday at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. Admission is free, and seating is on a first-come, first-served basis.
The audience will see the dancers of Paris, balleri-
nas of Spain and Bollywood performers of India.
Ville has a solo in the showcase, the annual stu-
dent-choreographed dance performance.
“My grandma choreographed it, so I am excited and 
proud,” Ville, 21, said. “She will be there watching me perform, so there is some pressure.”
Ville, the company’s secretary, said Floridance was 
her core involvement at UF and helped her keep up with dancing. She said she’s going to miss the open classes and rehearsals every Tuesday night, when any-one could take classes in ballet, hip hop or salsa.
“I knew that I could go to Floridance to have a 
break from stress,” she said.
Ville joined the company four years ago as a fresh-man alongside President Lindsey Backman and Vice President Courtney Fee.
Backman, a UF biochemistry and molecular biology 
senior, began dancing when she was about 2 years old.
Backman, 21, also has a solo in the showcase, and 
it’s her last opportunity to perform with her close friends before leaving for graduate school.
“It’s a place to dance at UF where those who are 
passionate about dance can go to,” Backman said. “It is a home.”
Fee, a UF accounting and political science senior, 
isn’t doing a senior solo. She said the piece she cho-
reographed for the winter show was her senior hurrah.
She said the company is made up of a genuine 
group of girls.
“It’s an inspiring group of people that help you 
improve and be the best you can be,” Fee, 22, said. 
“The girls are caring, sweet, and we look out for each other.”
Although this is Ville’s fourth year with Floridance, 
she said she still gets butterflies before a performance 
— but that’s what keeps her going.  
“It’s so different when you’re in the moment,” she 
said. “You’re expressing your emotions and telling a 
story to the audience.”
The last showcase won’t be easy for these seniors, 
but it will be memorable.
 “I am really sad,” Backman said, “but I am ending 
it dancing with friends.”Seniors say goodbye to FloridanceFRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    
4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/
house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$700 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     4-10-15-40-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  
crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    4-14-15-25-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com   4-14-15-25-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    4-14-15-25-2
2 Blocks to UF!
Fully remodeled historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors$700 mo. 352-505-5049     4-10-15-20-2
Studios 2 Blocks to UF!
New kitchens, granite counters, balconyParking included $575 mo.352-505-5049       4-10-15-20-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA TownhouseDouble balcony; One left!$1500 mo. 352-505-5049      4-10-15-20-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1590. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2Walk to campus. 2-story condo, Cresap Arms NW 15th St & 5th Ave. 2BR/1.5BA, furnished living & dining rooms. W/D, balcony off mas-ter. Covered parking. Avail Aug 8th. No pets.  $1050/mo. Email: debramain@gmail.com    4-10-15-10-2
● CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ●
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental 
School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D 
in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-
1294   4-14-15-10-2 
1BR Cottage $495
2BR Cottage $650
Small Pet ok 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    
4-22-15-14-2
FOR RENT: MIDTOWN.
Blocks from UF. 4BR/2BA, all appliances in-cluded, W/D, DW. Pets ok. From $1600/mo. 
Call Carol 352-359-3341    5-12-15-14-2
Efficiency apartment on horse farm $350/
mo. Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and/or rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.     6-30-15-24-2
Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com    6-9-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Beautiful, spacious apt for rent @ 2nd Ave Centre. Sublease June-Aug for only $570/month. Personal bathroom. Convenient lo-cation. Shared kitchen & living room.berni.schor@gmail.com or 954-600-4967   4-15-5-3Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Wanted, private br/ba, furn liv-ing room, condo end unit (Rockwood Villas) $375/m + util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d. Call George 904.874.5774    4-22-15-14-4
$475/mo May 1st Furn'ed Pvt masterBR incl utils, WiFi, W/D, TV. Quiet w/ 3 males in UF Midtown, 13th/8th area easy Bus, Bike routes. ROOM@COX.NET / ph(352) 338-1113    4-13-5-4
Available August 1st. Large room, pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 min from Shands. Perfect for med, engineering or grad student. Large, quiet, lovely home. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    5-28-15-16-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5REDUCED FOR QUICK SALE: 7825 NE 49th Terr 1200 sq ft 2/1 Block Home on acre of land with detached garage/carpot and well w/irrigation system. 10 minutes from airport and 20 minutes from UF $87,000 352-281-5874      4-14-5-5
Estate Auction: 818+/- Acre Bath Alum Estate located in Bath County, VA. 8 Residences, 3 Hangars, 3525’ x 50’ Paved Air Strip, 5 Acre Pond, Adjoins George Washington National Forest, Cave, Enclosed 16’x 40’ heated pool, 32 Parcels Available. Auction held at The Homestead Resort on April 17 at 3 PM. 5% Buyer's Premium. For more infor-mation, visit woltz.com or call David Boush. Woltz & Associates, Inc. (VA# 321) Real Estate Brokers & Auctioneers 800-551-3588.    4-10-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished3 Subleases 5 Real EstateFRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10AFFORDABLE, QUALITY scrubs and com-fortable clog footwear. Online at www.hospi-talscrubsplus.com or by phone/fax at 1-888-978-4781.      4-14-5-10
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.
Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.
Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers   352-771-6191   4-22-15-14-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           4-22-10-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-17-14-73-13 
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
7 Computers 10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part - Time WantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal      4-16-15-14
Opus Coffee
We are searching for fun and active students 
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the direc-tions.     4-10-15-10-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part-time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th St.Veterinary experience ideal.    5-19-15-14
Part-time student positions
at GatorWell:  STRIVE peer educators & 
wellness educators for the Health Hut. 
Details on our website
gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu         4-10-15-4-14STAY IN GAINESVILLE
Full/Part time openings 
Accounting Assistants
Linux AdministratorsSoftware/Web DevelopersMarketing CoordinatorCustomer Service Rep'sSales RepsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorWeb DesignerProofreaderCPA Product ManagerVideo TechPlease apply online atwww.gleim.com/employment.    4-20-15-10-14
College Female needed as Tutor/Driver for 7-8th grader. Strong math, organiza-tion. Dependable. MTWRF 3:15p to 7:00p, Periodic weekend/late eve hours. Call 352-514-8944.    4-13-15-5-14
Babysitter wanted for four kids ages 6-12, now through summer and into the fall. Help at home and taking kids to after school/camp activities. Experience required. Resume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu.     4-14-15-5-14
SIMED is looking for full time, part time and PRN employees for our Pharmacy, Radiology & various medical offices. Check out our web-site, SIMEDjobs.com for more information on each position and to apply online.    4-22-15-11-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, Fl
Cook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14Lifeguard (Certified) $11.37 hourlySeasonal position works part-time on weekends in a maximum security mental health treatment facility for adult males in Gainesville, Florida.  Successful candidates must have current active certification as a lifeguard, a valid Florida driver’s license, and must be able to successfully complete the required background screening for provid-ing caretaker services.  Applications must be received online by April 30, 2015. To apply, log onto: http://peoplefirst.myflorida.com.   Under Alachua County, select Human Services Worker II requisition # 60957037. You may also contact Grady Carthon at (352)264-8248 for more details.   4-22-15-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Hiring for Summer
Apply Mon-Fri 9am-8pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10/hr + Incentive + Paid Training
Bilingual SPANISH Speakers Needed
http://www.bebr.ufl.edu/survey/hiring
4-17-15-6-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    4-10-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 
50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to 
Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 
843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    4-10-1-14Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good 
MVR, Work history and Criminal Background 
history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 
to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi-way.com EOE   4-10-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13 
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college stu-
dents.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/
ww   4-22-14-71-15
WELDING CAREERS - Hands on training for career opportunities in aviation, automo-tive, manufacturing and more. Financial aid for qualified students. Job placement assis-tance. CALL AIM 877-206-4006   4-10-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    4-10-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL? Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142   4-10-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’Tt (optional $20 fee)Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
Connect instantly with sexy local singles! No paid operators, just real people like you. Try it FREE. 18+ Only. Call now: 1-800-931-6473    4-10-1-19
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838   4-10-1-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
DISH TV Packages for $19.99/mo & $14.95/
mo for Internet + $25 Visa Gift Card (with activation). Call NOW and Save: 844-560-2654. Conditions apply.   4-10-1-15
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 EntertainmentOUTSIDE OF DEMARCUS 
ROBINSON, THE GATORS 
DID NOT HAVE A 
CONSISTENT RECEIVER 
LAST SEASON.
By Luis T orres
Alligator Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
There’s one thing coach Jim 
McElwain has been preaching to the 
wide receivers on Florida’s roster.
Be more consistent.
Spring practice served as the op-
portunity for the receivers to show-
case their skills to Florida’s first year coach.
McElwain said they progressed 
throughout the practices, but the group still has to learn the nuances of the offense.
“I think the understanding of 
how to play the game at the pace at which we expect it to be played, as well as the understanding of the formations and things that you have to be a good player,” McElwain said.
Once the Orange & Blue Debut 
is in the rearview mirror, the receiv-ers will have to keep making strides over the summer and fall.
McElwain said the group made 
improvements as Spring went along.
“I think the attention to detail got 
better as it went on,” McElwain said. “Their understanding of what they need to do, and really it’s going to be a huge summer for that group as far as maintaining and keeping, con-
tinuing to learn before we get into 
fall camp.”
McElwain also mentioned the re-
ceivers have been the one position where their willingness and eager-ness to learn has stood out to him the most during Spring.
Whoever the starting quarterback 
is, he will look to lean on Demarcus 
Robinson.
The junior receiver had a break-
out season in 2014 after he led the 
team with 53 catches, 810 yards and seven touchdowns.
His production was the best from 
a receiver at Florida since 2009 and for his efforts he was named Third Team All-Southeastern Conference 
by Phil Steele.
“D-Rob is a guy that’s got a little 
something something to him, and 
that’s a good thing for us,” McEl-wain said.
But there were times last season 
when Robinson was taken out of games by opposing defenses.
His best game of his career came 
against Kentucky when he tied Car-los Alvarez’s school record for recep-tions in a game with 15. 
But it would take him until the 
Vanderbilt game, six games later, to rack up 15 more receptions.
Some of Robinson’s drop off in 
production could be attributed to the inconsistency from the quarterbacks last year. But there is no denying that Robinson is the most talented receiv-
er on the roster with the potential to 
be one of the best in the SEC.He just has to show up in every 
game.
“For him his consistency is got-
ta really show and he’s a guy that we’ve gotta take advantage of and get the ball to in certain situations,” McElwain said. “He is an explosive capability guy and has become more 
consistent as he’s gone and that’s 
good to see.” 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Demarcus Robinson runs after catching a pass during a Spring practice at Donald R. 
Dizney Stadium.Receivers showcase talent during Spring, still need work
BASEBALL
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
 
After JJ Schwarz hit his fourth home run 
of the game, the freshman trotted around 
the infield and ducked into the dugout.
His teammates were in awe.
“I saw Josh Hamilton do that once on 
TV,” junior Harrison Bader told Schwarz. 
“I guess anytime you’re in the same sen-
tence as Josh Hamilton, you must be doing something right.”
Florida’s win against Stetson on Tues-
day was more akin to a home run derby 
than a midweek clash against a team that 
had nearly beaten them a few weeks ago.
UF scored 22 runs. Twelve of them 
came off homers.
In the wake of its best offensive perfor-
mance of the season, No. 10 Florida (25-9, 6-6 Southeastern Conference) will host 
South Carolina (23-11, 6-6 SEC) tonight 
at 7, and the matchup comes at a pivotal point in both team’s schedules.
A live stream of tonight’s game will air 
on SECNetwork+ while Saturday and Sun-day’s games will be televised on the SEC Network.
The Gamecocks have won five of their 
last seven, and despite trailing UF by just 
two wins, South Carolina was bumped out 
of Baseball America’s top-25 poll on Mon-day.
Florida is fresh off its second SEC series 
loss on Sunday and could use a win this weekend to separate itself from the other teams in its conference, five of which are within one game of UF.
Both teams need this series, but the tim-
ing may be in Florida’s favor.UF looking for consistency 
after big midweek winTHE FIRST GAME IS SATURDAY.
By Luis T orres
Alligator Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
Bailey Castro is having the senior year 
she envisioned.
The Pembroke Pines native is hitting 
.364 on the season with 11 home runs and 
24 RBIs.
Not bad for Castro, considering she 
came into this season with a .245 career batting average with a career high of eight home runs in a season.
After cruising to a 5-1 win over rival 
Florida State on Wednesday behind Cas-tro’s two home runs, the No. 3 Florida (37-4, 8-4 Southeastern Conference) soft-
ball team returns home this weekend to 
take on No. 13 Kentucky (27-11, 4-8 SEC).
The two teams didn’t face each other 
last season, but the Gators took two out of three games the last time the two teams played in 2013.
The Wildcats have a deep pitching 
staff as they have used four pitchers in 
the circle this season. Kelsey Nunley and 
Meagan Prince have made the most starts 
on the staff as they have started 15 and 13 games 
respectively.
Nunley also leads the 
SEC in saves with four.
Christian Stokes is the 
best hitter in Kentucky’s 
lineup as she’s hitting 
.358 on the season with 
44 hits and a .569 slugging percentage.
Florida’s senior Lauren Haeger will be 
one player to watch this weekend as she’s been dominant in the circle.
She leads the SEC in ERA (1.17) and is 
tied for third with 17 wins.
Haeger is one home run away from ty-
ing Megan Bush’s program record of 65. Gators softball hosts three-
game series with Kentucky
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15Castro
UF tennis teams wrap up 
regular seasons this weekend
For more information on opponents, dates and times, go to alligator.org/sports.The UF men’s basketball team will join St. Joe’s, Purdue and Old Dominion at the 2015 Hall of Fame Tipoff Classic next season. The first game of the event is Nov. 21.
Gators at the Masters
Three former UF golfers — Billy Horschel, Camilo Villegas and Matt Every — 
are participating in the 2015 Masters. After Round 1, Horschel sits in 12th place with a 2-under-70, while Villegas is tied for 31st (even-par-72) and Ev-ery is tied for 41st (1-over-73).FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Ryan Larson bats during Florida’s 14-8 win against Florida State on March 17 at McKethan 
Stadium. Larson and the Gators open a three-game series against South Carolina tonight at 7.
THE GATORS ARE UNDEFEATED 
IN CONFERENCE PLAY.
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Writer
@alexmaminakis
 
With just three regular season games 
remaining, Florida heads into the weekend atop the Big East standings in the team’s ﬁ  rst year as a member of the conference.
The No. 9 Gators (10-4, 4-0 Big East) host 
Villanova (7-5, 2-1 Big East) on Saturday at 1 p.m. at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
It will be Florida’s second game in four 
days following UF’s road win at Marquette on Wednesday.
Saturday’s game will also be the team’s 
Senior Day. Shannon Gilroy, Nora Barry and Mikki Ofﬁ  t will be honored for their contri-butions to the program and look to build upon those contributions against Vil-lanova.
In Florida’s four con-
ference games, the Gators 
have outscored their oppo-nents by a combined score of 70-22. Gilroy has scored 
a nation-high 52 goals this season, including 20 over the last four contests. Florida is av-eraging 15.4 goals per game and has scored 216 this year, the most in the country.
As of late, however, with the offense re-
maining consistent, the Gators’ defense has stepped up, allowing just 12 total goals over the last three games. Florida hopes to main-tain that formidable combination as it wraps up the regular season, starting Saturday against Villanova.
Florida lacrosse hosts Villanova, looks for 5th straight win
Its players are expecting their 
record offensive showing against 
Stetson to bleed into this week-
end.
“There will deﬁ  nitely be a 
carry over,” right ﬁ  elder Ryan 
Larson said. “When you score 22 
runs, your conﬁ  dence level is up. 
You wake up in the morning and you’re walking around a little bit taller and sticking your chest out.”
Along with its offense, UF’s 
starting pitchers have grown more consistent.Logan Shore has looked sharp 
since throwing a complete game against Alabama on March 27. 
In his last start, the sophomore 
allowed just one run in eight in-nings.
“My conﬁ  dence is at an all-
time high,” said Shore, who will 
start tonight for Florida. 
“This weekend is the weekend 
for us to kind of get back on the 
winning side of things and try and 
make a run.”
And now that its lineup is fully 
healthy, UF is looking for its depth 
of hitters to ease the burden on its bullpen. 
The Gators are 23-0 this season 
when they out-hit their opponent.
“When everything is ﬁ  ring, this 
is a deadly lineup,” Larson said. 
“I think we’re starting to really 
hit our stride, starting to come together….We still need to win a big series and I think this is the weekend.”BASEBALL,  from pg 14UF hosts South Carolina
“I think we’re starting 
to really hit our stride, 
starting to come together. ... 
W e still need to win a big 
series, and I think this is 
the weekend.”
Ryan Larson
UF outfielderGilroy
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
 
Before he helped lead the Gators 
to eight Southeastern Conference 
championships and ﬁ  ve NCAA championships and coaching mul-
tiple decorated Olympians, UF track 
and ﬁ  eld coach Mike Holloway was learning the ropes of track and ﬁ  eld under Lyle Knudson.
When Knudson hired Holloway 
— the coach at Gainesville’s Buch-holz High School at the time — to be a graduate assistant and sprint and hurdle coach for Florida in 1986, he 
knew Holloway had the potential to 
be one of the “great” ones.
“The great coaches that have the 
great and lasting success are those that care deeply about their ath-letes,” Knudson said, “and Mike is the epitome of that.”
It was at this point the unique 
friendship between the two was 
born. 
Though they live across the 
country — Knudson residing in 
Denver and Holloway building his track and ﬁ  eld empire in Gainesville — they consider one another among some of the most important people in their lives.
“He is one of my dearest friends 
to this day.” Knudson said.
The feeling is mutual with Hol-
loway.
“I’ve got several mentors, him 
being one of them, that I can talk to about anything,” Holloway said. “I can always call him and pick his brain and be able to learn something about whatever event I called to talk 
to him about.”
The two will be in the same room 
today, as Knudson will make the trip 
to Gainesville when former Florida track and ﬁ  eld stars Beth Farmer and Candice Scott are elected into the UF Athletics Hall of Fame in the Holloway Touchdown Terrace.
      
Knudson is currently semi-re-
tired, privately coaching mid-dis-tance and distance runners as well as triathletes from his home in Den-ver. He coaches athletes ranging from 
one of the best 10-year-old triathletes 
in the United States to a 58-year-old 
who is competing in their ﬁ  rst Iron-man triathlon in the summer.
He is considered one of the pio-
neers of women’s collegiate track and ﬁ  eld, having formed the wom-en’s track program at the University of Colorado in 1973, a time when in-tercollegiate women’s track and ﬁ  eld 
was in its early stages as a sport.
Holloway, a native of Columbus, 
Ohio, has been coaching track and 
ﬁ  eld in Gainesville since 1983, when he was brought on as an assistant coach at Gainesville High School.
Following a two-year stint with 
the Hurricanes, he traveled across town to head the Buchholz track 
and ﬁ  eld team.
During Holloway’s stint at Bu-
chholz from 1985-1995, 32 of the 
39 boys and girls school records in track and ﬁ  eld were broken by ath-letes he coached. His squads took home 17 district titles, 14 regional titles and eight state titles.
In his ﬁ  nal season as the Bob-
cats’ head coach, he became the ﬁ  rst coach in school history to lead both the boys and girls teams to state titles.
“What I thought really separated 
him apart from a lot of other coaches is that he just so much cared about the athletes he coached. … That’s the most important characteristic 
you can have as a coach,” Knudson 
said.
      
Much of Holloway’s success can 
be attributed to his ﬁ  ery yet caring 
style of coaching.
Erin Tucker knows this all too 
well.
Tucker, now the Gators’ hurdles 
coach, competed at UF from 1994-1999 when Holloway was the asso-ciate men’s head coach.
“Some of the guys on the team 
thought he was a little abrasive be-cause they weren’t used to someone being that aggressive,” Tucker said. “That kind of pushed them to get 
more out of themselves than they 
even thought they could do.”
Tucker also recalled that there was an instance during a practice where Holloway said, “When I stop yelling at you — when I stop getting at you — that’s when you should get worried.”
He does it because he knows that 
the athletes have the potential to be better and pushes them to do so. 
When the yelling stops at an ath-
lete, that’s his way of saying “I’m done with you.”
The occurrence is rare, however, 
as Holloway’s presence alone typi-cally commands respect. 
“We kinda just really clicked,” 
senior jumper Ciarra Brewer said. “I felt a lot of respect for him and vice versa.”
Senior jumper and NCAA triple 
and long jump champion Marquis Dendy has always had a strong sup-port system from his parents, and he feels that Holloway provides a very 
similar structure to that of his par-
ents.
“He has taken care of me,” Dendy said. “He has always looked out for 
me and I really appreciate that.”
      
Knudson’s role in Holloway’s de-
velopment as a coach was, for the 
most part, mechanical.
“The biggest thing Lyle taught 
me is to take care of details,” Hollo-
way said. “He taught me to be more 
of a student of the sport and taught me to think more of the inner work-ings of the sport.”
One of the most important things 
that Knudson passed down to Hol-loway was his program for training distance and mid-distance runners. Most training systems are focused 
on two paces throughout the dura-
tion of the event, but Knudson’s pro-gram introduced multiple strategic tiers to runners under his direction.
“It’s a multi-pace system. … It’s a 
ﬁ  ve-tier system. … It’s about devel-opment,” Holloway said. “It’s more about speed than it is endurance.”
      
Knudson was the mold that 
helped shape Holloway into the coach he is today.
But perhaps the greatest thing 
that the two built while working to-
gether was friendship.
And now, more than 10 years 
since they last saw each other in per-
son, they’ll meet once more.
They will recall old memories 
and create new ones in the process, memories that the two friends can reminisce about the next time they cross paths — whenever it may be.
The only thing that is certain 
now is the bond that they will for-ever hold.
Lyle Knudson certainly knows it.“I still consider him one of the 
top ﬁ  ve, six, seven friends of my life,” Knudson said, “and among those people that I most respect.”16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF track and ﬁ  eld coach Mike Holloway talks with mid-distance runner Andres Arroyo during the ﬁ  nal 
day of the Florida Relays on Saturday at the Percy Beard Track.
UF track coach Mike Holloway attributes success to mentorINSIDE
ONLINEWill Grier, Alex McCalister and Alex Anzalone are some of the players to keep 
an eye on during Saturday’s game. Read the story on page 3 of Kickoff.  
For all the coverage of Saturday’s game, stay tuned to alligator.org/sports 
this weekend.
KICK OFF
Editor Jordan McPherson   Photos for Cover Illustration Jordan McPherson
Alligator, Friday, April 10, 2015
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
 
Jim McElwain walked to the lectern in-
side Ben Hill Griffin Stadium’s meeting room 
on March 10 with big-time expectations for his first set of Spring practices as Florida 
football’s head coach.
After three months on the clock and 
minimal contact with his players, McElwain looked forward to observing his roster over 
the next four weeks.
“We’ve got some hungry Gators out there, 
some guys that have really bought in to a 
lot of things we’re trying to accomplish,” 
McElwain said that day, “and yet we’ve got 
a long ways to go.”
Those hungry Gators comprised what for-
mer UF head coach Will Muschamp called a 
“deep and talented roster” with “some good 
football players in that locker room” in his 
post-firing press conference on Nov. 17.
While the talent part is up for judgment, 
that roster, especially on the offensive side, 
can be described with almost any other word except for depth.
“Obviously our numbers from a ros-
ter numbers standpoint are nowhere near 
where we need to be,” McElwain said. “… 
We all knew this was coming, so it’s not a shock.”
The lack of bodies will be evident on Sat-
urday when the Gators host their annual Or-
ange & Blue Debut at 12:30 p.m.
Even though Florida is working with a 
limited roster, McElwain said the game will 
be full-go.
“We’re still kind of piecemealing those 
groups together right now,” McElwain said. 
“Yet I think we’ll be able to go, we’ll have a 
good competitive game as much as we can.”
Right now, it’s a game of numbers.
•   •   •
When athletics director Jeremy Foley 
named McElwain UF’s 25th head football coach on Dec. 4, one of McElwain’s obvious endeavors was developing a successful of-fense, something the last regime failed mis-erably to accomplish.
In four years under Muschamp, the 
Gators averaged 336.8 yards per game and never finished higher than 10th in the 14-team Southeastern Conference. They were dead last in 2013, averaging 316.7 yards of offense while skidding to a 4-8 finish, their worst finish since going 0-10-1 in 1979.
UF needed a change.It needed an offensive-minded coach and 
a person who has experience turning around struggling programs.
To Foley, McElwain fit both of those tabs.As the offensive coordinator at Alabama 
from 2008-2011 under head coach Nick Sa-ban, the Crimson Tide never fielded an of-fense that was ranked worse than 64th in the country and sixth in the SEC. 
Both of those lows came in his first year 
with Alabama.From there, McElwain moved to Fort Col-
lins, Colorado, where he became the head 
coach of the Colorado State Rams from 2012 
until 2014.
McElwain turned a team that went 3-9 for 
three consecutive seasons before he became head coach into a team that went 10-3 last 
season and boasted the No. 19 offense in the 
country (480.9 yards per game) and aver-
aged 7.09 yards per play, good for fourth 
nationally.
“The guy’s been successful everywhere 
he’s gone,” Foley said on Dec. 6, the day 
McElwain was introduced as UF’s head 
coach.
But his successful past trips all had a 
common denominator: The talent was there.
This time around, McElwain might not be 
as fortunate.
•   •   •
The quarterback is a team’s offensive 
leader.
He’s supposed to make the calls, rally the 
troops and take command of the field.
McElwain knows the position all too well.
He was an all-state quarterback at Mis-
soula (Mont.) Sentinel High and was a sig-
nal caller at Eastern Washington from 1980-1983 before he began his coaching career.
Now, he’s tasked with figuring out who 
will be at the helm of the Gators offense for the 2015 season.
The clear front-runners to the naked eye 
are Will Grier and Treon Harris, the pair of four-star signees from UF’s 2014 recruiting class, and there are pros and cons to both of them.
Harris, a true sophomore, has the experi-
ence.
He led Florida to a come-from-behind 
road victory against Tennessee and started UF’s final six games last season.
His pure numbers (113.2 passing yards 
per game, 49.5 completion percentage, 
nine touchdowns) weren’t the best, but he 
played.
“I played in a big crowd and tough situ-
ations,” Harris said. “I got in the game and 
did what I had to do.”
But while Harris has the exposure to the 
collegiate game, his small frame (5-foot-11, 193 pounds) might be his biggest downfall in McElwain’s pro-style offense, an offense where the quarterback takes snap from un-
der center instead of being in the shotgun 
every play.
This is where Grier could have the edge.
The redshirt freshman, standing at 6-foot-
2, played under center early in his high 
school career at Davidson Day High in North 
Carolina before transitioning to a primarily 
shotgun-based offense.
“Everybody has their skillset and differ-ent things they do well,” Grier said, “but knowing the offense, getting the offense down, being able to move the ball and take care of the ball is going to be the biggest thing.”
And so far through Spring, Grier has a 
slight edge in the quarterback battle, but not necessarily because he’s the top pick.
Harris has missed a handful of practices 
and both of the team’s scrimmages, as he was dealing with the death of his cousin, 
who was killed in Miami on March 24.
Harris returned to practice about a week 
later.
“You really kind of wonder sometimes 
the true importance of what we do when it comes to family and how important third 
and 6 is,” McElwain said on March 25. “Right now, our hearts go out to him and 
his family and what he’s going through and 
we’re here to support him and his mom and 
aunt in every way we can.”
But when both Grier and Harris are in 
practice, they haven’t blown anyone away.
During the first 15 minutes of the Gators’ 
practices — the only portion open to me-dia — the two have been erratic with their 
throws, hitting receivers right in the hands on one play and throwing a spiral into the 
dirt or overthrowing a pass the next.McElwain said the defense got the better 
of the quarterbacks during Friday’s scrim-
mage, and the quarterbacks threw three interceptions during their final practice on Thursday.
“It’s OK, to be honest,” McElwain said. 
“Yet, conceptually you see some flicker, and what I mean by that, the detail in which the routes have to be run, number one, has got-ten better. “And so as much on the quar-terback for throwing it to the correct color jersey, there’s a lot to do with the tight ends (and) running backs knowing exactly where they have to be to create the field spacing, the route depths down field.”
McElwain said he is in no rush to name 
a starting quarterback and has no problem waiting until Summer practice to make the announcement.
“When it’s time we’ll name that,” McEl-
wain said before Spring practice began. “I’m looking forward to seeing what those guys can do and seeing the competition as we move forward.”
But regardless of who takes the first snap 
— whether it’s Grier, Harris or McElwain’s dog Claire-a-bell — the quarterback is prob-ably going to have problems staying upright because UF’s offensive line is as inexperi-enced as it can possibly be.
The Gators opened camp with just seven 
healthy scholarship offensive linemen. The eighth, fifth-year senior Trip Thurman, is out with a shoulder injury.
That number is now at six, as McElwain 
announced Monday that redshirt sophomore Rod Johnson — the only UF offensive line-man other than Thurman with starting ex-perience — is out indefinitely after being injured during the team’s scrimmage on Fri-day.
“He got banged up and his fingers kind 
of went numb, kind of stinger-ish type of 
deal,” McElwain said. “I still don’t know 
quite what exactly that is other than, you 
know, those are things that you’re always very cautious with.”
Of the linemen still available for Satur-
day’s Orange & Blue Debut, only sophomore 
David Sharpe has meaningful playing time 
under his belt.
He’s played in six games as a backup left 
tackle.
“You’ve got to play the hand you’re 
dealt,” McElwain said. “And right now, quite honestly, the hand we were dealt is re-ally insufficient at some of the areas.”
McElwain and offensive line coach Mike 
Summers are taking a glass-half-full ap-
proach to the lack of offensive linemen.
Instead of shying away and admitting de-
feat, they’re embracing the shortage, giving 
the unproven players a chance to get added 
reps.
“The thing about this group of guys is 
they care about each other and care about 
the team,” Summers said. “They fight their way through tough times, and that’s how 
you build the foundation of a football team.”
The Gators will receive an upgrade on the 
offensive line come July.
When Florida’s 2015 recruiting class 
steps foot in Gainesville, UF will have six more scholarship linemen on its roster, 
highlighted by five-star and No. 1 overall 
tackle Martez Ivey.
Depending on the severity of Thurman 
and Johnson’s injuries, the Gators could 
have as many as 14 scholarship linemen 
ready for their Sept. 5 opener against New Mexico State.
“As I’ve explained to them, it’s not like 
you’re going to stand in line at Disney 
World,” McElwain said. “(You’re) in the Fast Pass line. You’re on the ride right now. It’s going to be a huge summer for them, and really summer for the guys teaching them because the coaches obviously can’t be there.”
But come Saturday, six will have to be 
enough.
That’s all Florida has.“We’ll do what we have to do, and you 
know, find out what those guys can do,” McElwain said.
•   •   •
Despite the numbers, Florida is still at-
tempting to make Saturday mirror a game as closely as possible.
With virtually no offensive line, running 
backs or linebackers, McElwain could have just made Saturday look like a glorified prac-tice like UF did in 2013.
But he’s trying.“We’re going to do everything we can to 
create some game-like situations, different offense, different defense working as a same unit,” McElwain said. 
Saturday will feature four 12-minute 
quarters. 
There will be a running clock except for 
the final two minutes of each half.
The Gators will also play an untimed 
overtime period after the fourth quarter ends.
“We’re going to try to work,” McElwain 
said.
Two seasons ago, the Gators were in a 
similar situation, having only six healthy of-fensive linemen when it came time for the Orange & Blue Debut, the team’s 15th and 
final practice.
So instead of a full game, Florida hosted 
an open practice that included six 11-on-11 
scrimmage drills separated by individual drills.
McElwain doesn’t want that to happen.
“We’re still working out some of the de-
tails because of the depth and how we’re 
going to have to maybe trade some jerseys as we move along,” McElwain said, “but 
they’re again trying to work as much as we 
can to get a lot out of Saturday.”
But even at that, Saturday will show just 
how fragile Florida’s offense is.
It’s a numbers game at this point.
And unfortunately for McElwain, the 
numbers just don’t add up.
LB Antonio Morrison (Knee)
LB Jarrad Davis (Knee)OL Trip Thurman (Shoulder)OL Rod Johnson (Stinger)RB/WR Brandon Powell (Foot)WR Chris Thompson (Excused)DL Jay-Nard Bostwick (Personal)TE Jake McGee (Leg)OUTyou’re dealt’
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF linebackers coach Randy Shannon speaks to Florida players during warm-ups at the beginning of Monday’s practice. The Gators roster — specifically at offensive line, running back and linebacker — has limited depth.Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida head football coach Jim McElwain (center) smiles while observing the team’s practice on Mon -
day at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
Format for Saturday’s game
Four 12-minute quarters
Running clock, with the exception of the final two minutes of each half
An untimed overtime period will follow after the fourth quarter
Both quarterbacks will be in white jerseys to be distinguished from their teammates
A live stream of the game will be on SECNetwork+
Admission is free
“You’ve got to play the hand you’re dealt. And right now, quite honestly, the 
hand we were dealt is really insufficient at some of the areas.”
Jim McElwain
UF head football coach‘Play the handBy Morgan Moriarty
Alligator Staff Writer
@Morgan_Moriarty
 
The 2015 Orange and Blue 
Debut kicks off this Saturday af-
ternoon at 12:30. Here are ﬁ  ve players to watch for as the Spring 
football season concludes. 
Quarterback Will Grier
Grier redshirted last season but 
has set himself apart from sopho-
more Treon Harris, who started in the ﬁ  nal six games of last season. 
Harris missed a few days of 
practice due to a family matter, giving Grier the opportunity for more ﬁ  rst-team reps. 
Grier, being more of a pro-style 
quarterback, may ﬁ  t better in Jim McElwain’s offense, but McElwain has yet to name a starter at this point. 
 
Tight end DeAndre 
Goolsby 
With redshirt senior Jake Mc-
Gee out from live contact drills for Spring, Goolsby has taken most of the ﬁ  rst-team reps at tight end. He missed some practice time last 
week with a minor knee injury, 
but is expected to be full-go on Saturday. 
McElwain likes to use multiple 
tight end sets in his offense, so Goolsby, along with McGee, could ﬁ  ll those roles this Fall. Last year Goolsby played in seven games as a true freshman but didn’t have any catches.
Defensive lineman Alex 
McCalister 
Dante Fowler Jr.’s departure for the NFL Draft left a hole at the Buck linebacker spot — a hybrid linebacker/defensive end position — but McCalister has stepped into the roll this Spring. 
Last season, McCalister was a 
valuable part of the defensive line rotation, playing in all 12 games. He ﬁ  nished second on the team in sacks with six. 
You don’t replace a talent like 
Fowler, but having McCalister to 
take over at the spot isn’t too bad 
of an alternative.Linebacker Alex Anzalone
The linebacker depth is razor 
thin for the Gators this Spring, al-lowing less experienced players like Anzalone to see signiﬁ  cant playing time with the ﬁ  rst team. 
Anzalone had 14 tackles as a 
backup last season and saw action in 10 games as a true freshman in 2013. 
Don’t be surprised if Anzalone 
retains the starting role at the Sam linebacker spot this Fall after get-ting valuable experience as a start-er this Spring.
 
Wide receiver Ahmad 
Fulwood  
Outside of Florida’s best receiv-
er Demarcus Robinson, Fulwood is arguably the most talented wideout on the Gators’ roster. 
At 6-foot-4, his height creates 
some matchup problems for de-fensive backs when matched up in one-on-one coverage. 
Although he has the size, Ful-
wood’s career stats aren’t much. He has just 29 catches for 326 yards along with two touchdowns. 
One of those touchdowns came 
on an 86-yard heave from Harris 
in the Birmingham Bowl on Jan. 3. 
Florida desperately needs play-
makers to step up at wide receiver.
Fulwood could be one of those 
to make the leap.3   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 2015   
KICKOFF
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Redshirt freshman quarterback Will Grier prepares to throw during Florida’s practice on Monday at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
ORANGE AND BLUE
Five players to watch for during Florida’s Spring game