HE IS AT THE WALDO FARM-
ERS AND FLEA MARKET EVERY 
WEEKEND.
By Elise Engle
Alligator Contributing Writer
Running Bear brought his tipi village 
out to the Waldo Farmers and Flea Market 
on Saturday, and it was ﬁ  lled with a collec-tion of items from the Oglala Lakota tribe.
As a storyteller and historian for the La-
kota tribe, Running Bear — who was born and raised on the Pine Ridge Indian Reser-vation in South Dakota and owns the Run-ning Bear’s Trading Post — said he hopes to use the tipi village to provide an oppor-tunity for visitors to learn more about Na-tive Americans.
He will be returning to the market every 
weekend.
“(I want) to teach the children and give 
them some education about the true way of the native people,” he said.
The village consists of two tipis that are 
constructed of tan canvas on wood frames and decorated inside with furs and skins. Tipi is the Lakota spelling of the English word “teepee.”
The largest tipi is the size of 13 buffalo 
hides, Running Bear said. Some Lakota In-dians still live in tipis like the ones he has 
on display.
He said there were once 70 children 
packed into the tipi quietly listening to his 
stories. The stories Running Bear shared primarily focused on the American govern-ment’s oppression of Native Americans.
Running Bear is his legal name, but he 
said the federal government also requires him to have a “Christian” name, which is 
Patrick McCormack.
Peggy McCormack, Running Bear’s 
wife, has hand-made crafts for sale near 
the tipis. Although she has very little Na-tive American blood, she said she has de-veloped an interest in the culture and the art.
She said she taught herself how to 
weave baskets out of wet pine needles and 
string.
She has continued to learn new skills, 
and she said she hopes to pass them on to 
those who visit the tipi village.
“I don’t mind teaching other people,” 
said McCormack. “You can charge, but why would I want to charge a little kid or a teenager, you know?”
McCormack said passing on an art that 
is nearly extinct is more important to her than a proﬁ  t, and she plans to teach visi-tors something new every week.
“That’s basically why I do this,” McCor-We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 154 THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015
On to Omaha
Florida motivated, expecting 
success heading into the College World Series, pg 17.
Skin cancer now more prevalent in young people
Dermatologist: Wear sunscreen, pg 5
Netﬂ  ix Binge Drinking Game: Daredevil
See this and more in this week’s edition of the avenue, pg 9-12Local artists showcase their 
work at Artisan Guild Gallery
This month’s theme is “Fresh from 
Florida —Harvest of Art,” pg 7
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
The UF Student Senate approved the ﬁ  rst reading of 
the activity and service fee budget for the 2015-2016 ﬁ  scal 
year on Tuesday.
The budget — which is comprised of the activity and 
service fees portion for the Reitz Union and the entirety of the Student Government, Rec Sports, and Student Activ-ity and Involvement budgets — totals $20,038,152, almost 
$1.7 million more than the 2014-2015 budget.
Prior to being brought to the Senate ﬂ  oor, the budget 
was drawn up by the nine-member Budget & Appropria-
tions committee, which is led by chairman Smith Meyers 
(Swamp, District A). 
Student Body Treasurer Nicholas Carre then met with 
the committee and made suggestions in order to reallocate some of the funding. 
The committee approved his recommendations unani-
mously, Meyers said.
Two highlights that have been added into this year’s 
budget that were not present in last year’s budget are Student Senate approves 1st reading of ‘15-’16 budget
Running Bear educates on Native American history
SEE TIPI,  PAGE 3
By Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org
On Tuesday afternoon, 
Gainesville Police found and arrest-
ed the suspect involved in the June 3 stabbing at Motel 6. 
Investigations led police to Neil 
Lloyd Krause, 49, who report-edly slashed another man on the back with a knife, Gainesville Po-lice spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. The ﬁ  ght was reportedly over drug money and occurred in the Motel 6 parking lot, located at 4000 SW 40th Blvd. 
Krause told ofﬁ  cers he stabbed 
the other man in self defense, To-bias said. However, he did not have any injuries on his face or body.Krause also admitted to police 
that he was high on crack cocaine at the time of the argument, Tobias 
said. 
After the ﬁ  ght, the victim was 
taken to the Shands Emergency 
Room with non-life-threatening 
injuries, Tobias 
said. The cut on his back was 
about two feet 
in length and re-
quired 20 staples. 
Ofﬁ  cers ar-
rested Krause on 
one charge of 
aggravated battery causing bodily 
harm or disability. He was taken to 
the Alachua County Jail where he remained as of press time in lieu of a $40,000 bond. Suspect in Motel 6 
stabbing caughtCRIMEIt’s for the activity and service fees“Any questions we had, they were answered. Any 
disagreements that we had, the gap was bridged.”
Charlie Brown Jr.
Majority party leader
Krause
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff 
Afternoon Flight
A great blue heron ﬂ  ies across a pond in Paynes Prairie on Wednesday.
“I don’t mind teaching other people. 
You can charge, but why would I want 
to charge a little kid or a teenager, you 
know?”
Peggy McCormackSEE SG, PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 154
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
World Sea Turtle Day 
Celebration
Celebrate World Sea Turtle Day on June 20 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Florida Museum of 
Natural History with the Sea 
Turtle Conservancy. Children and families are invited to tour the museum’s sea turtle exhibit. The free event features sea tur-tle specimens, a turtle library and stickers and bookmarks for all kids. Children also may create fun crafts to take home, 
meet sea turtle scientists and play turtle trivia for a chance 
to win a cool prize. Visitors will also have the opportunity to speak with researchers from 
the UF Archie Carr Center for 
Sea Turtle Research.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 4 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
CORRECTION
In the story that ran in 
Tuesday's edition of the Alligator under the headline "Development plan in prog-ress," we incorrectly stated the date of the UF board of trustees meeting. The meeting was held on Thursday.
HIGH  88° LOW  68°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, lgomez@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Elena Castello, Lindsey   
  Saucier, Grace Hudgins, Kristine Janata
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Serina Esquivel, Bailey Gaul, 
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Nadine Rae Saladino ,  
  Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn,    
  T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria HydeTHURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
mack said.
She said she considers her job 
to be similar to Running Bear’s.
“He’s trying to teach history 
and heritage that is not taught anymore,” she said.
McCormack said she enjoys 
creating new things out of some-
thing old, such as the bags and friendship bracelets she had for sale that were made out of worn-out T-shirts.
Running Bear said he plans to 
be at the farmers market with his tipi village each weekend from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., and he is look-ing forward to giving others the opportunity to hear the Lakota tribe’s unique stories.
“We had our own languages 
here,” he said. “We had our own culture, our own way of life.”
TIPI,  from pg 1He’ll set up the village every weekend
Elise Engle / Alligator
Running Bear, owner of Running Bear’s Trading Post, sits outside 
of his tipi village at the Waldo Farmers and Flea Market on Sun-day. The tipis are decorated with traditional Lakota Indian items.
Elise Engle / Alligator 
Peggy McCormack weaves a pine-needle basket while waiting for customers in her tent of hand-made items at the Waldo Farmers and Flea Market on Sunday. She sells her work and said she hopes to teach visitors her crafting skills.
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015
2014-2015 Budget
Administra tive Accoun t
Oper ating A ccoun t
Group Budgets 
 Accent
 SGP
 Student Legal Ser vices
 Special Requests
 SG Netw ork2015-2016 Budget
$1,190,973               $1,096,660(-$94,313)$788,964                $826,797 (+$37,833)
$1,422,213               $1,493,324 (+$71,111)
$450,500                $473,000 (+$22,500)
$826,000                $865,750 (+$39,750)
$458,900                $465,276 (+$6,376)
$60,000                $50,000 (-$10,000)
$136,600                $131,880 (-$4,720)
Reitz Union Budget*
*Activity and Ser vice Fees onlyRec Spor ts Budget 
Student Activities/I nvolvement $5,920,400               $6,624,423 (+$704,023)
$5,884,150               $6,736,358 (+$852,208)
$1,225,000               $1,274,684 (+$49,684)
Total
$18,363,700 Total SG Budget        $5,334,150    $5,402,607 (+$68,457)
$20,038,152
(+$1,674,452)
$40,000 for the New York Times readership 
program and $55,000 for Student Government projects, which was created to reﬂ  ect projects 
being pursued by the SG executive ofﬁ  cers.
The budget passed its ﬁ  rst reading by a vote 
of 76-7, with members from both Swamp and 
Access party showing a general sense of sup-
port.
“I see this budget as a step in the right di-
rection,” said Preston Jones (Access, Hume), 
adding that he commended Carre for taking the time to look through everything and ﬁ  nd places 
in the budget to cut funding where it wasn’t 
needed.
Majority party leader Charlie Brown Jr. 
(Swamp, Agriculture) considered the budget 
to be the ﬁ  rst piece of bipartisan work in the 
chambers since the rise of the Access party.
“Any questions that we had, they were an-
swered,” Brown said. “Any disagreements that we met, the gap 
was bridged.”
Minority party leader Michael Christ (Ac-
cess, Graduate) agreed the budget is the most ﬁ  scally responsible of the budgets he’s seen during his time as a senator but added he could not support the approval of such a vast budget, 
especially when the money for it comes from 
student fees.
He said his lack of support for the bill stems 
from personal, not political, reasoning.
“I’ve opposed budgets in the past since I’ve 
been in Student Government, and for me it doesn’t change once my party may or may not be in power,” Christ said.
Carre said he knows the budget is not per-
fect, but he said it’s a start.
“Yes, there are things I would like to change 
on this budget,” Carre said, “but I feel moving forward, this is the best thing we can do at this speciﬁ  c point in time.”
What else happened at Senate on 
Tuesday?
Four Summer C replacement Senator seat 
recommendations (Two Graduate, one Agri-culture, one Graham) were approved by unani-
mous consent. 
Student Senate Bill 2015-1033 Funding 
for Fine Arts College Council Equipment was 
passed by unanimous consent.SG,  from pg 1The budget passed by a vote of 
76-7, supported by both partiesBreaking down the Budget
“I’ve opposed budgets in the past since I’ve 
been in Student Government, and for me it 
doesn’t change once my party may or may 
not be in power.”
Michael Christ
Minority party leaderBy Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org
Seventeen ofﬁ  ce complex buildings were broken 
into Monday night, and police are looking for the 
suspect. 
The majority of the break-ins occurred in the 
area of 4800 NW Eighth Ave., 500 W. Newberry 
Road, the 500 block of Northwest 60th Street and 
4700 NW 43rd Ave., Gainesville Police spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. The suspect primarily targeted doctor’s ofﬁ  ces, realty ofﬁ  ces, law ofﬁ  ces and salons. 
The suspect entered the buildings by prying open windows and doors, Tobias said, adding that the suspect stole an undisclosed amount of cash 
from certain locations. 
As of now, it does not appear that patient and 
client information is at risk, Tobias said. 
Surveillance footage shows a white male wear-
ing a baseball cap, a face covering, a backpack and 
a dark shirt with “100%” on the front. 
The last break in was off of Northwest Sixth 
Place, Tobias said. An alarm went off at about 6 a.m. Tuesday. 
Anyone with information should contact GPD’s 
special operations unit at 352-393-7600. Those who wish to remain anonymous may text their tip to 274637 (CRIMES) using the keyword GPDFL. The following is a list of some of the businesses 
that were burglarized: 
4611 NW 53rd Ave. — Physician’s Ofﬁ  ce —  
Suspect attempted to pry front door but did not enter.
4703 NW 53rd Ave. Suite A1 — Real Estate At-
torney — The front door was pried.
4703 NW 53rd Ave. Suite A4 — Election Survey 
Ofﬁ  ce — The front door was pried. Nothing was missing and there were no ﬁ  ngerprints.  
4703 NW 53rd Ave. Suite B2 — Therapist Ofﬁ  ce 
— The front door was pried. 
4707 NW 53rd Ave. Suite B — Dr. Kim Davidson 
— The side door was pried open. The suspect then pried open the front door in the foyer.THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
CRIME
Man breaks into 17 businesses by prying doors, windowsBy Sedona Huffty
Alligator Contributing Writer
As the summer sun heats up, so 
do the rates of Americans with skin cancer.
Skin cancer problems continue to 
grow, according to a study done by 
the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention.
Although older adults still make 
up a larger age group for skin can-cer, it is the second most common cancer in adults aged 20-30 years old, said Dr. Miranda Whitmer, a dermatologist at Gainesville Derma-tology & Skin Surgery and a member of the American Academy of Derma-tology.
Medical experts are starting to de-
tect the correlation between young people contracting skin cancer and 
the use of tanning beds, she said.
Some UF students have noticed 
that many apartment complexes in 
Gainesville offer free tanning beds to its residents.
“When I signed my lease with 
The Grove, I noticed one of the selling points was the free tanning beds there,” said Ryan Ferguson, a 19-year-old UF business administra-tion sophomore.
Although there are not deﬁ  nitive 
statistics on using tanning beds yet, ultraviolet rays drastically increase one’s chances of developing mela-noma, which is the deadliest form of skin cancer, Whitmer said.
This ready accessibility of tan-
ning beds is catering to young peo-ple in Gainesville, Whitmer said. However, dermatologists around the world are working to create regula-
tions on tanning beds.
In most of Australia, tanning 
beds are already illegal, Whitmer 
said. Across the U.S., dermatolo-gists are looking for ways to better regulate the use of tanning beds al-together.
Applying sunscreen every time one plans on being outside is essen-tial to protecting one’s skin, Whit-mer said. This especially applies to student athletes who spend hours outside at practice, such as Fergu-son, who said he has fair skin and gets sunburned easily.
Although the football player said 
he wears sunscreen when he goes to the beach, he often forgets to apply it before practice.
“I don’t really see any of my 
teammates using sunscreen during our practices, even though we prob-ably should,” Ferguson said.
Skin cancer now more prevalent in young people 
“I don’t really see any of my 
teammates using sunscreen 
during our practices, even 
though we probably should.”
Ryan Ferguson
UF sophomoreThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWell, loyal Alligator readers, it’s Thursday once again. That 
means it’s time for another edition of...
Darts & Laurels
If there’s one thing most people can agree on regardless 
of political leanings or religious following, from bleeding 
heart liberals to diehard conservatives, rigid Catholics to 
faithless atheists, it’s that the thought of innocent children 
being harmed or sexually abused by their supposed protec-tors or mentors is a rage-inducing test of our Stand Your 
Ground laws.
This is why we’re sure many of us are happy to see the 
formation of special Church tribunals for bishops who’ve 
been derelict in their duty of protecting children from the predations of sexually abusive priests. 
A tribunal has been in place for priests accused of sexual 
abuse since 2001, but there’s been no such thing to punish bishops who’ve simply hidden reports of sexual abuse away by moving accused priests to new parishes where they’re 
free to continue their despicable practices. Their incredibly 
despicable practices mind you.
This marks a step forward toward holding religious lead-
ers accountable for their actions, and we’d like to offer our 
generous platitudes unto the brow of Pope Francis who’ll be 
appointing a secretary and permanent staff to the tribunal.   While we’re sure the man receives quite a fair amount of respect from his ﬂ  ock as it is, we feel it important to 
award this Catholic holy man a measure supply from our 
own modest stores of well-wishing and such. 
It is only appropriate that we take the time to acknowl-
edge such a feat. 
For protecting children and addressing the matter of 
sexual abuse, we’ll award Pope Francis a laurel. Because we’re sure we can all agree that preventing the sexual ex-
ploitation of children is the height of not being a dick.
In less honorable news, a study released Monday demon-
strated that 13 hospitals in Florida, including Gainesville’s 
North Florida Regional Medical Center, have some of the highest possible markups for care in the country. 
Notably, North Florida Regional’s average charge for 
services is apparently 9.6 times the maximum allowable 
amount Medicare pays for. 
We’ll take this moment to point out that health care 
doesn’t work if hospitals overcharge you to keep blood 
pumping in your body, air in your lungs and your bones in their correct places. 
While it’s understandable that health care’s not a free 
service, and Florida’s hospitals aren’t crowding up the top tier of that list like some horrifying swarm of locusts, you still don’t need to send every poor sod with a broken bone to the poor house. 
We at the Alligator have some vague belief that trying to 
stay alive shouldn’t end with you screwed over the hospital table. It’s an honest belief which stems from the right of most human beings to the right of life and liberty etc. etc.
Granted, some of our readers may in fact have a vague 
interest in the matter unrelated to medical reasons, but we 
consider the matter a personal one.
For screwing people over the hospital table we’re 
going to toss a non-lethal or otherwise injury-inducing 
dart at our hospitals. 
Because we’re not dicks and would quite enjoy seeing 
your continued productive contribution to society so long as you’re not overcharging the world for staying alive.So this weekend is pretty big for me. It’s race season and the mother of them all is here. People ask what type 
of racing I’m into and sometimes it’s 
hard to explain because it’s not NAS-
CAR, Formula 1 or Indy racing.
I’m into this little thing called the 24 Hours 
of Le Mans. 
Essentially, it’s an international auto sports 
race held in Le Mans, France.
There are four categories of cars that compete: LMP-
1, LMP-2, GTE Pro and LM GTE. The cars that I love are 
the LMP — which stands for Le Mans Prototype — cars, 
so you see how the race is kind of a big deal. Put sim-ply, they are the race cars you see that are fully covered in pretty cool-looking bodywork. They have different 
speciﬁ  cations and requirements but generally have cus-
tom-built engines for racing.
There are now many different championships that 
run LMP cars, but it was Le Mans that started it all. The GT class stands for Grand Touring, which basically 
means that the cars are derived from current production 
models. You can read the full descriptions of each class on the 24 Hour website: 24h-lemans.com/en/race/cat-egory_2_2_1742.html.
Le Mans is just like any other sporting event. There 
are different levels of winning. Of course, there is tak-ing the No. 1 pole position at Le Mans, but then there is also winning within your class or championship.
The 24-hour race is the cornerstone of the FIA World 
Endurance Championship, which is an international autosports championship. It is the 83rd running of the race with 56 cars competing at the famous Circuit de la Sarthe. For the full entry list, visit: 24h-lemans.com/
live/en/.
I’m extremely excited for the 24 Hours this year be-
cause Nissan has a new LMP-1 car. Nissan was promi-nent in the circuit during the 1990s but it 
ultimately withdrew from much motorsports racing after the mid-90s.
 Since 2001, Nissan has been supplying 
engines for multiple prototype cars that have competed in Le Mans, but this is the ﬁ  rst year the company itself has entered Le Mans since 
1999.
The new Nissan has been on the lips of ev-
eryone in the automotive world for a variety 
of reasons. Not only is it Nissan’s highly anticipated 
return to Le Mans, but it is the ﬁ  rst front-wheel-drive 
car to ever compete in the LMP-1 class. The GTR LM 
Nismo is a front-engined, 3.0-liter, V-6 twin turbo with an electric drive system that gives it more than 1,250 horsepower. It is based on the production model GTR. 
For a full gallery with diagrams of the beast: motorau-
thority.com/news/1098321_nissan-ﬁ  nalizes-specs-for-gt-r-lm-nismo-ahead-of-2015-le-mans-race.
Last week Nissan turned even more heads when 
it unveiled a throwback livery inspired by its famous 
R90CK. The 1990 red, white and blue prototype had one 
of the fastest lap times in Le Mans history. The car and its original driver Mark Blundell will both be present at the 24 Hours.
Unfortunately, the 24 Hours of Le Mans never seems 
to make it to broadcast channels. The race can be seen with a subscription to Fox Sports GO live-streaming website and app or on Fox Sports 1 and 2. The race starts streaming at 8:30 a.m. on Saturday and lasts until 
Sunday.
For the full schedule, visit foxsports.com/motor/
story/24-hours-le-mans-tv-schedule-060415.
You can track the race at #LM24 and see my com-
mentary @erikacanﬁ  jn on Twitter.
Erika Canﬁ  jn is a UF public relations senior. Her 
column appears on Thursdays.It’s Le Mans weekend and the Nissan is back
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Erika Canﬁ  jn
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
IT'S PART OF A MONTH-
LONG EVENT AT 
THE ARTISAN GUILD 
GALLERY DOWNTOWN.
By Mary Brooke Stubbs
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Artisan Guild Gallery is 
hosting “Fresh from Florida — 
Harvest of Art” this month to showcase artwork from more than 50 local artists.    
The Artisan Guild Gallery 
is a co-op store in downtown Gainesville composed of work by local artists.
 Each month, the guild creates 
a theme and artists display their work according to the theme.
“We are happy to have people 
come and see our new work,” said Ann Lindell, a local artist. 
Lindell said these events 
display the talent of local art-ists because only artists from Gainesville or surrounding areas can be members of the guild.
“I think it gives people an out-
let to sell their work,” she said, “as well as to engage with other artists and to show the commu-nity things that were made here.”
Peter Senesac, a local artist 
who joined the Artisan Guild Gallery in 1980, said he has been making jewelry and painting since 1978. 
Senesac currently has a paint-
ing series about forest life and sea life on display.
“A lot of people are impressed 
that there are that many talent-ed artists in Gainesville and the greater Gainesville area,” Sene-sac said. “It is an extensive art community here in Gainesville.”
Destiny Johnson / Alligator
Nancy Gildersleeve, 76, the artist on duty at the Artisan's Guild Gallery, works at the artist's co-op Wednesday afternoon.
Local artists showcase their workSTATE
By The Associated Press
 
TALLAHASSEE — Women will 
have to wait 24 hours before hav-ing an abortion under a bill Re-publican Gov. Rick Scott signed 
into law Wednesday, a reﬂ  ective 
period supporters said they hoped would change some women's minds before ending their preg-nancies.
Scott signed the abortion mea-
sure along with 54 other bills, in-cluding legislation that would al-low terminally ill patients to take 
experimental medicines.
 Scott also signed into law a 
measure that revises the rules for 
the panel that regulates Florida electric rates. He vetoed a bill dealing with home medical equip-ment providers.
Abortion was the subject of 
emotional debate during the Leg-
islature's regular session. 
Democrats complained the bill 
was simply an effort to put up 
roadblocks to infringe on women's rights to an abortion while Repub-licans said women should have to wait before making such a major decision.
"One day to reﬂ  ect upon the 
risks of abortion, one day to view an image of the unborn child's ul-trasound image, and one day to consult with friends, family and faith are minimal considering the effects that will remain for a life-time beyond that irreversible deci-sion," said Sen. Anitere Flores, a Miami Republican and one of the 
bill sponsors.
Florida will be the 27th state to 
have a waiting period for abortions 
when the law takes effect July 1.The bill (HB 633) does have 
exceptions for victims of rape, incest, domestic abuse or human trafﬁ  cking if women present doc-tors with a police report, restrain-ing order or similar documenta-tion to prove their claim.
Democratic lawmakers who 
opposed the bill said abortion 
would become the only medical 
procedure with a mandated wait-
ing period. Re-publicans coun-tered that they couldn't think of 
any other proce-dure for which someone could 
walk into a clinic 
and be operated on right away.
Groups opposing the waiting 
period, including the American Civil Liberties Union of Florida and Planned Parenthood, sent Scott a petition last week to veto the bill.
Cecile Richards, president of 
Planned Parenthood Federation of America, said the new law would "shame women."
"We all want women to have 
the information and support they need to make a carefully consid-ered decision about a pregnancy," said Richards in a statement. "But 
this misguided legislation blocks 
access to safe medical care for po-litical, and not medical, reasons - which is why medical experts oppose it."
The American Civil Liberties 
Union of Florida contended the new law is unconstitutional and the group said it was considering 
whether to challenge it in court.Scott approves abortion 
waiting period bill 
Scott
8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015
ON BEDS + FURNITURE?
 
NEW - USED - BUY - SELL
1201 East University Ave Gainesville, FL 32641  (352) 371-4422
Mon - Fri 11 - 6 / Sat. 11 - 5 • www.dumasfurniture.comWE’VE GOT ‘EM!SLEEPER SOFAS  •  NIGHTSTANDS  •  FUTONS  •  HEADBOARDS  •  BEDFRAMES
SOFAS  •  BOOKCASES  •  VANITIES  •  LOVE SEATS  •  LAMPS  •  MATTRESSESCOFFEE TABLES • ENTERTAINMENT CENTERS • DESKS  • CHESTSTV STANDS  •  CHAIRS  •  BUNK BEDS  •� END TABLES  •  BEDS 
INTERNATIONAL
By The Associated Press
IRBIL, Iraq — An American ﬁ  ghting 
with Kurdish forces against the Islamic 
State group in Syria has been killed in 
battle, authorities said Wednesday, likely 
the ﬁ  rst U.S. citizen to die ﬁ  ghting along-side them against the extremists.
Keith Broomﬁ  eld of Massachusetts 
died June 3 in a battle in the Syrian vil-lage of Qentere, which is near the bor-der town of Kobani, said Nasser Haji, an ofﬁ  cial with a group of Kurdish ﬁ  ghters known as the YPG. He had joined the 
YPG on Feb. 24 under the nom de guerre 
Gelhat Raman, Haji said.
Haji did not elaborate on the circum-
stances of Broomﬁ  eld’s death, nor did he 
know the man’s hometown.
State Department spokesman Jeff 
Rathke conﬁ  rmed Bloomﬁ  eld’s death, 
but declined to provide any details about the circumstances. He said the U.S. was 
providing consular assistance to his fam-
ily.
The ﬁ  ght against the Islamic State 
group has attracted dozens of Western-ers, including a number of Iraq war vet-erans who have made their way back to the Middle East to join Kurdish ﬁ  ghters, who have been most successful against 
the extremist group.
Many are spurred on by Kurdish social 
media campaigners and a sense of duty 
rooted in the 2003 U.S.-led military in-vasion of Iraq. And while the U.S. and 
its coalition allies bomb the extremists 
from the air, Kurds say they hope more Westerners will join them on the ground to ﬁ  ght.
Previously, a British citizen, an Aus-
tralian and a German woman have been killed ﬁ  ghting with the Kurds.
Backed by U.S.-led coalition air-
strikes, Kurdish YPG ﬁ  ghters in Syria 
have successfully pushed back Is-
lamic State group militants from Ko-bani and scores of nearby villages.   More recently, they have closed in on 
the Islamic State-held town of Tal Abyad 
near the Turkish border. 
The town is the Islamic State group’s 
main access point to Turkey from Raqqa, the group’s de facto capital in Syria.American ﬁ  ghting with Kurds killed in Islamic State battle
The Associated Press
Kurdish ﬁ  ghters of the People’s Protection Units ﬂ  ash victory signs as they sit on their 
pickup on their way to battle against the Islamic State. Kurdish ﬁ  ghters are on the march against the Islamic State group, capturing towns and villages in an oil-rich swath of Syria.
IT BEGINS THIS SUMMER.
By Melissa Brown
Alligator Contributing Writer
A team of UF researchers hopes 
to provide better treatment thera-
pies for people suffering from epi-lepsy by researching cannabidiol.
The Florida Department of 
Health approved $1 million in grants for a team led by Paul Car-ney, a UF Health pediatric neurol-
ogist. The main goal of the study 
is to provide treatment with can-nabidiol to children with drug-re-sistant epilepsy, according to the U.S. National Institutes of Health.
Cannabidiol is made using the 
chemical in the marijuana plant  and does not contain tetrahydro-
cannabinol, or THC. 
About six million people in 
America are diagnosed with epi-
lepsy, one of the most common neurological diseases in which nerve cell activity in the brain is disturbed, causing seizures. About one-third of these people are not responsive to medication, Carney said. 
Participants will be adminis-
tered Epidiolex, which is made us-ing cannabidiol. 
“CBD (cannabidiol) has been 
shown to reduce seizures in a number of previous studies and 
our goal is to better study the safe-
ty and efﬁ  cacy of this drug in a controlled clinical environment,” said Ph.D. student Christopher Anderson, a research assistant for the Carney Epilepsy Research Lab.
The project is intended to treat 
50 children from ages 2 to 16 liv-ing with epilepsy that have ex-hausted most of their treatment options, Carney said.
Every step of the three-
year study will be meticulously tracked. Patients will check-in at regular intervals and the research-ers will examine how the children are responding, Carney said.
All subjects will be clinically 
evaluated and seizure frequency will be recorded in a diary given to patients, according to the Clini-calTrials.gov website. 
“Through this research, we 
want to learn about what type of children respond, if they can toler-ate the medication and if there are any side effects we need to worry about,” Carney said.
The study will begin later this 
summer and participants are still being accepted, Carney said. 
UF researchers granted $1 million for epilepsy study
“Through this research, we 
want to learn about what type 
of children respond, if they can 
tolerate the medication and if 
there are any side efects we need 
to worry about.” 
Paul Carney
UF Health pediatric neurologistKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Online exclusive:
The Avenue reviews Fox’s latest box ofﬁ  ce hit, “Spy”What’s inside: 
Netflix binge drinking game: “Daredevil” editionMiami-based band to perform at the Jam tonightTHURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
Local band Savants of Soul will perform at 9 p.m. on Friday at The Jam, located at 817 W. University Ave., with its latest vocalist, Chelsea Oxendine.
By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
Gainesville’s Savants of Soul has 
acquired its newest member, a lead 
singer who will be making her debut 
with the band Friday.
Hairstylist by day, singer by night, 
Chelsea Oxendine will take the stage 
for her ﬁ  rst-ever performance with the 
band at The Jam, located at 817 W. 
University Ave.
“We’re always looking to book 
quality because it’s important to us,” said Blake Briand, The Jam’s owner-
operator, “and Savants of Soul are def-
initely one of the top local Gainesville bands.” 
The band will perform at 9 p.m. 
and tickets can be purchased for  $7.
Ray Vigil, the band’s alto saxo-
phone player, heard her singing for the ﬁ  rst time during karaoke.
“Ray pretty much told me that I 
had to do it,” Oxendine laughed.
The singer was selected after com-
peting in the band’s three-round audi-tion against 10 other female vocalists, 
according to its website.“Dude, when she ﬁ  rst walked in 
and sang for us I was just like ‘whoa,’” 
said Alex Klausner, drummer for the 
Savants of Soul. “She’s got such a 
powerful voice, man.”
It was an exciting but stressful 
time, Oxendine said.
All of her stress and work paid 
off when her voice and personality earned her the spot.
“She brought a lot of energy; she 
has a lot of charisma,” said Jason Bev-
erung, trombone player for the band. 
“She’s very conﬁ  dent in herself.”
Oxendine attributes her conﬁ  dence 
to her experience as a performer and 
daily interactions with customers as a 
hairstylist.
“If you looked at me maybe six 
years ago, you wouldn’t have said I was conﬁ  dent and charismatic,” Ox-
endine said.
At a young age, the vocalist began 
singing at church in her hometown, 
Live Oak. In high school, she be-
gan taking formal lessons with Anita 
Countryman.
Her next voice teacher, the late 
Owen Wingate, taught her a lot about her voice and herself as a person, Ox-endine said.
After graduating from Stetson Uni-
versity, she began performing in the Nicole Nouveau Band.
The band’s breakup was a tough 
time for her, but she remained pas-
sionate about music and would per-
form whenever she had the chance, Oxendine said. During that time, she said she missed the synergy that came from being a member of a band.
“Now I’ve got nine of them around 
me during band practice, and it’s amazing,” Oxendine said. “They all write, they all give great input, they’re 
all extremely well-educated; and I 
couldn’t ask for anything better at this point.”
Anticipating the upcoming show, 
the singer said she’s excited for ﬁ  rst-
timers to see what makes the band so 
special and for fans of the band to see what she can do.
“All I can say — it’s gonna be a re-
ally good show,” Oxendine said. “It’s going to be different than any show they’ve had before.”
Showing part of the charisma and 
conﬁ  dence that made her stand out, 
the singer joked, “Because I’m going 
to be there, duh.”Savants of Soul adds new member
The band performs FridayUF SoM garners 
attention, invites elite pianists for 
LOCAL
piano workshop
                                  By Patricia Rosario
Avenue Writer
The UF School of Music is inviting some of the world’s 
elite student and professional pianists for a weeklong 
workshop for the 2015 International Piano Festival, creat-
ing a melting pot of artists from across the globe.
The event, which starts Saturday and ends June 20, 
consists of master classes and daily recitals in Room 101 of 
the UF School of Music building. The recitals will begin at 
7:30 p.m. The master classes, which start at 3:30 p.m., are 
free and open to the public.
Thirty students from seven countries including China, 
Canada and Russia were selected to attend the weeklong workshop to study and perform under the guidance of 
some of the greatest teachers in the profession, said event 
director Kevin Orr.
This year, world-renowned pianist of the China Conser-
vatory, Xiaofeng Zhang, is traveling from Beijing to join the UFIPF teaching faculty along with three of his students, 
one of which will be the youngest student at the festival at 
just 15 years old.
Other noted faculty members include Natalya Antonova 
of the Eastman School of Music, Robert Roux of Rice Uni-versity, Roberta Rust of Lynn University and UF’s Kevin 
Robert Orr, who is also a professor of piano.
“We’re very proud of our music program at the UF 
School of Music and the level of study that we have,” Orr 
said. “It’s exciting for me to bring these high-level teachers 
and students to our school and kind of showcase what we 
do to them.”
Audiences can expect to hear household classics like 
Beethoven, Mozart and Chopin, as well modern composi-tions by living composers performed by students. Orr said the master classes will be small, but hands-on and interac-
tive with audience members. Students will rotate profes-
sors each day.
UF has co-presented the piano festival since 2007, when 
it began in China as the Chinese-American International Piano Institute. Since 2010, the event has been hosted di-
rectly on UF’s campus.
UF hospitality sophomore Holley Harbuck is among the 
students looking forward to attending the master classes.    
“It’s a great learning opportunity for anyone — players 
or not,” Harbuck said.“W e’re very proud of our music program at the UF 
School of Music and the level of study that we have. It’s 
exciting for me to bring these high-level teachers and 
students to our school and kind of showcase what we 
do to them.”
Kevin Robert Orr
UF piano professorTHURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015
By Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer
Take a sip when…
 Foggy Nelson attemps to 
make a witty remark
 Wilson Fisk sees a white 
wall
 Nurse Claire comes to the 
rescue
 Karen is where she is not 
supposed to beTake a shot when…
 Matt lies about how he 
got that wound/bruise
 There is an awkward, 
intimate moment between 
Foggy and Karen
 Wilson Fisk loses his 
temper, to say the least
Finish your drink…
 To help you get through 
really gruesome (yet 
awesome) ﬁ  ght scenes
 When you ﬁ  nally see 
Daredevil in his costumeMarvel fans, rejoice; there’s a 
new superhero in town.
Netﬂ  ix has entered the Marvel 
Cinematic Universe with the series 
“Daredevil,” which premiered in 
early April. Since its launch, the se-
ries has received a number of posi-tive reviews from critics. 
After binge-watching it for a sol-
id 13 hours, I can see why.
Creator Drew Goddard captivat-ed viewers by taking a darker and more realistic approach to the com-ic, unlike the awful 2003 ﬁ  lm adap-tation starring Ben Afﬂ  eck. Think Christopher Nolan’s Dark Knight 
Trilogy, but plenty more ﬁ  ght 
scenes. Yes, there will be blood.
To those who aren’t familiar 
with the plot, Matthew Murdock is a young lawyer who was blinded as a child by a radioactive chemi-cal. After the accident, his remain-ing senses intensiﬁ  ed, allowing him to “see” what others can’t despite his blindness. By day, he ﬁ  ghts for justice in Hell’s Kitchen as a lawyer 
and by night, as Daredevil.
Daredevil fan or not, this series 
is a must-see. While the second sea-
son is slated to release in 2016, you can pour yourself a drink and enjoy season one.DAREDEVILTHE GARAGE ROCK QUARTET WILL 
PLAY TONIGHT AT THE JAM
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
Garage rock band SunGhosts will shake 
Gainesville in a full-throttle performance today.
The Miami-based band, consisting of Nik 
Olas on guitar and lead vocals, Luis Estopiñan on drums and background vocals, Arminio 
Rivero on guitar and background vocals, and 
Jared Steingold on bass and background vo-cals, is known for putting on an unforgettable show.“We’re all best friends, and you really see 
that on stage when we start rocking out,” Olas, 25, said. “We really have fun with the audi-ence.”
The band will perform at 
9:45 p.m. at The Jam, located 
at 817 W. University Ave. 
Doors will open at 9 p.m. and tickets can be purchased for $7 at the door or for $5 in advance at squareup.com/market/the-jam-gainesville.
Good vibes are in the air for these rising 
stars, who have just released their ﬁ  rst-ever single, “Polterguy.” The release, which is avail-able now on iTunes, is just one of many recent 
breakthroughs for the band. They are currently working on a full-length album after signing 
with Orchard House Music, a startup label in Miami.
The band formed when the four friends 
started to jam together and de-cided that they wanted to as-
semble a band of their own.
“We created a giant list 
of band names,” Olas said. 
“SunGhosts was one of the 
ones that stood out…it paints a picture about the beauty of life.”
“The ‘G’ has to be capitalized,” Rivero, 21, 
said. The band often encounters a frustrating mispronunciation as people read their name as 
“sung hosts.”From picking out strong names to working 
with two-time Grammy winner Joel Someillan, 
hard work and dedication to their craft seems to have paid off. This month, the band will en-tertain the masses at Summerfest, named by The Guinness Book of World Records as the 
world’s largest music festival.
“No matter where we go we seem to draw 
in a big crowd,” Rivero said thoughtfully.
Their inspiration? Aggressive positivity. 
They play for any age, standing by the princi-
ple of diversity in their music. The band draws inspiration from all the great rock stars they grew up listening to.
“Music overall is my passion,” said Estopi-
ñan, 21. “It really drives me.” Miami-based band SunGhosts to perform ﬁ  rst time in GNV
MUSIC12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015
By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
A decade ago, a rap group from Ken-
tucky went platinum and nearly won a 
Grammy. Years later, the group reshufﬂ  ed 
and transformed its sound while retaining 
its ﬁ  rm quality of music. Now, the group is returning to Gainesville to debut its latest project.
Nappy Roots will take the stage Friday 
at High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave., performing its latest album, “The 40 Akerz Project,” which features just two of its four current members, Skinny DeVille 
and Fish Scales.
“Any time we can get to Florida and 
rock out, it doesn’t matter if it’s on the 
coast, the gulf, or in the middle,” Skinny 
said. “Y’all have always showed us love. 
Gainesville is no different.”
Doors will open at 8 p.m. and tickets 
will be sold at the door for $15 or in ad-vance for $13 on ticketﬂ  y.com.The set list will primarily cater to the 
new album, but it will also include old Skinny and Scales collaborations and other classic Nappy hits such as “Awnaw” and “Good Day.”
“The 40 Akerz Project” marks the ﬁ  rst 
time in four years Nappy Roots has re-leased any sort of album. It catches Skinny 
and Scales testing new waters with their 
music, delving more into contemporary, 
urban sounds as opposed to the old, rustic twangs they were known for in the early 2000s.
Blake “808 Blake” German, a rising pro-
ducer from Atlanta who created the entire album under the name of his production group, SMKA, will also join the duo on stage.
“It’s a gamble any time you do a new 
sound versus what you’ve been doing,” German said. “It’s just been really cool to see people taking it in and actually vibing 
with it.”
Nappy Roots began in 1995 as a group of six college friends making 8-track music 
together in a cramped living room. In 1998, they signed a deal with Atlantic Records.
By 2002, its label debut, “Watermelon, 
Chicken and Gritz,” launched them into the mainstream. It sold a million copies and was certiﬁ  ed platinum. Eventually, the luster faded, revealing the tainted side of 
the music industry.
“We were naïve,” Skinny said. “We 
were bright-eyed and bushy-tailed.”
In 2003, after its second album failed to 
meet the label’s expectations, Nappy Roots grew frustrated and wanted out. But leav-
ing would prove difﬁ  cult.
In a last-ditch effort, the group stopped 
making music for two years as a way to 
bait Atlantic to drop them. The band  and the label ﬁ  nally split in 2005. 
In 2006, R. Prophet left the group, too. 
In 2007, the remaining members formed their own label, signed a distribution deal 
and released “Innerstate Music,” which featured the smash hit “Good Day.”
From 2006 to 2011, Nappy Roots put 
out new projects nearly annually. Big V 
split from the group in 2012, leaving four 
members: Skinny, Scales, Ron Clutch and B.Stille.
Clutch and Stille collaborated to make a 
collegiate clothing line. The only ones who have made a song together since then are Skinny and Scales.
“I think after this one, we’re gonna get 
back in the studio and work on this ‘40 
Akerz pt. 2’ and try to step it up a little bit” 
Skinny said. “We’re in talks with the rest of the guys about doing a reunion album in 2015 and possibly a tour around that.”
The rapper said he predicts creating a 
whole new sound will allow their music to live on.
“That’s how you live forever, man,” 
Skinny said. “Create something new and 
not bandwagon people.”Nappy Roots to return to GNV with new music, sound
The group will perform Friday
“Any time we can get to Florida and 
rock out, it doesn’t matter if it’s on 
the coast, the gulf, or in the middle. 
Y’all have always showed us love. 
Gainesville is no diferent.”
Skinny DeVille
Nappy Roots memberTHURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    7-2-15-36-1
UNIVERSTIY COMMONS Across campus. Best deal in town. 1 room avail 6/1, $325/mo. 1 room avail (luxury room) 8/1, $350/mo. Utils, wi-fi & cable incl. #1 location for bus rte. Resort-style living & amenities. Beautifully furn'd. Ladies only. Call Belle 352-328-2477    6-11-1 1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
EFFICIENCY APT. facing woods, in NW, pri-vate home, separate entrance, large bath, no pet, quiet mature person only. All utilities paid, $550. Call 352-395-6250 or 332-1429 Kathy    6-30-15-5-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    6-18-15-57-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1600/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    6-11-15-41-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
6-18-15-20-2
**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
1, 2, 3 and 4 bedroom houses & apart-
ments available for August. All near UF and 
Downtown. * CALL 870-2760 *    7-2-15-16-2
Apt for rent. Near Shands. 3300 SW 23rd St, 
Apt #2. 1BR/1BA w/ large screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. $545/mo + $700 sec. Pets ok. 352-371-3473, leave message.   7-9-15-16-2
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATIONFall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2
TEN BEDROOM HOUSE!! Live with nine of your friends but don't be responsible for their rent! Double living rooms, washer/dryer sets and fridges! Lots of off street parking and walk to campus, completely renovated in fall 2014, this house is AMAZING! Call Campus Realty 352-692-3800    6-30-15-11-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors, W/D$675/mo 352-505-5049    6-30-15-9-28 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of
parking!      $700/mo. 352-505-5049
www.crosskeysproperties.com    6-30-15-9-2
Large House Nice 6BR 4BA
Must See Walk to UF & Stadiums+ Bonus efficiency 1BR 1BA KitchenetteBig Yard & Lots of Parking $2,850moPerfect for students or large familyAvail July 20 (352)256-3323    6-16-15-5-2
Walk to UF--Sorority Row Area!3BR/1BA $1100/mo.
352-505-5049       6-30-15-5-2
Clean 2BR/1BA home in quiet NW area available now or Aug. Tile floors, CH/A,W/D, large detached carport/workshop. $890/mo Call/text Anita: 352-575-4395 Email 3230house@cozygator.com. 6-11-15-2-2
4BR/4BA COUNTRYSIDE at the University condo. Furnished common area, plenty of free parking, next to pool, near bus rte. $350/mo/room. Includes all utils, cable, internet. Call 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031   7-2-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 female Roommates, nonsmokers with no pets, to share a 3BR/2BA condo near UF on bus route, close to shopping , furnished living, dining areas with fully fitted kitchen and laundry, bedrooms have queen bed with study desk, $500 per month per room inc. utilities, TV/Internet. Call 208-5896261 for immediate occupation.    6-30-15-5-4AVAILABLE AUGUST 1ST1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    7-2-15-5-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
20 Acres $0 Down, $128/mo.Owner Financing.Money Back Guarantee!Near El Paso, TXBeautiful Mountain ViewsFree Color Brochure  Call 800-343-9444     6-11-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
Brand New! Unique gift card sleeves and holders, that keep track of transactions and balances. No more sharpies needed! Go to Sleevepal.com    6-11-1-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-11Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
WANTED: ACOUSTIC BASS
for student. Ok if needs repair. Please call Mr 
Greene 352-473-0646    6-18-15-4-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, Fl
Cook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14Alarm dispatcher neededpart-time weeknights/weekends. Must be able to pass a background check. Email resume to applications@cpss.net    7-2-15-14-14
MEDICAL ASSISTANT needed for busy Dermatology office. Full Time with benefits or part time. Experience desired. Ideal for pre-med, nursing and allied health student. Min. one year commitment. Respond to ofmgrbeers@aol.com    6-11-15-10-14
GESTATIONAL SURROGATE
1 yr room & board + $500/mo + health ins.   
Prefer 20-38 Healthy + had at least 1  baby. 
Open to offers. TEXT ONLY-305 582 9800   
7-9-15-14-14
DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, withgood customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
PART TIME SOCCER COACH wanted this 
summer for 8 year old boy and 6 year old girl. $30/hr plus $15 for each hour after first. Experience. Email resume and references to: rosenson@ufl.edu.    6-11-15-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT - IMMEDIATE
$8.10/hr, flex hrs, 20 hrs min. Word typing 
skills, Excel a plus. CV & daily available 
hours to oma.office@yahoo.com  6-18-15-
5-14
Kelly Services hiring event June 24th, 8am to 
Noon.  Now hiring administrative  profession -
als, medical administrative assistants and secretaries. Call 352-335-7800 for location and more info. 6-18-15-4-14$20/hr + FLA travel expenses Paid intern-ship (communications) 6 months Journalism degree or journalism student Articulate news media writing & interviewing Professional appearance & speaking skills Direct phone interview: 904-735-4268       6-30-15-5-14
MATH TUTOR for middle/high school
students. Flexible hours. Salary
commensurate with experience.
Send CV with cover page highlighting
math teaching experience and any degree(s)
 to: rosenson@ufl.edu
6-30-15-4-14
PRN office/home cleaner needed paying $8/hr...must have cleaning experience,own a car,able to pass a drug/background check..please contact Caleitha @ 352-214-0868 if interested and qualified    6-30-15-4-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    6-11-1-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE    6-11-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE     6-11-1-14
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-14-25-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-
15AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, 
Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    6-11-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe!. Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    6-11-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-16-173-16NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!
Rated 5-Star on Google Play!
Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    6-11-
1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-
25-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service
24 hrs a day. Reservations available.
Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    6-11-1-15
15 Services 15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Event NoticesHeadline
Story description Pg#THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators selected in MLB Draft
Nine current UF baseball
players were selected in the2015 MLB Draft. Read the story online at www.alligator.org/sports.Mike Holloway and the Florida men's track and ﬁ  eld team is in second place at the NCAA Outdoor Championships after Day 1. Read the story on page 18. THE GATORS FACE MIAMI 
ON SATURDAY AT 8 P .M.
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
It was back in mid-January, 
when Florida was still gelling af-
ter a full workload of fall baseball, 
and hadn’t developed the chemis-
try that they pride themselves on 
now.
For this reason, and several 
others, it was surprising to hear Florida’s returning players give their pre-season superlatives, less 
so because of the content of their 
predictions, but more so because of the conﬁ  dence and consistency in which they were spoken. 
Outﬁ  elder Buddy Reed named 
catcher JJ Schwarz as the player who was most ready for the sea-son to start.
Senior Bobby Poyner named 
the freshman class as the group that would have the largest impact at the plate.
First baseman Peter Alonso, in 
a couple sentences, predicted ev-erything else.
“We’re gonna really show 
everyone what we can do,” the 
sophomore said. 
“This year we’re gonna snap 
that 0-4 regional record and we’re 
gonna do big things.”
He mentioned Omaha, Ne-
braska, several times, which, of course, wasn’t surprising — you’d be hard pressed to ﬁ  nd a single college team that wasn’t salivating 
at the prospect of a College World 
Series berth in June.
No, the surprising tidbit of 
Florida’s pre-season predictions was their accuracy.
Indeed, Florida’s freshmen 
have had arguably the biggest pro-duction at the plate.
 And the Gators didn’t just snap 
their 0-4 Regional record.
They shattered it.No. 4 national seed UF (49-
16) went 3-0 in Regionals, then swept Florida State in what FSU head coach Mike Martin labeled a “whipping”, and is now set for an early-season rematch with No. 
5 national seed Miami (49-15), 
a team it took two out of three games from in February.
The cause of Florida’s success?That would be the seamless 
integration of the new, incoming players with the old, the chemis-try that has been built — game by 
game, series by series — and the 
team’s drive.
Their want.Their hunger.
“We’re here to win a national 
championship, not just beat Mi-
ami,” Alonso said. “We’re here to beat everyone.”
      
Somewhere between Gainesville 
and Hoover, Alabama, a day after they hoisted the polished, pointed Southeastern Conference trophy, Schwarz and Mike Rivera walked off Florida’s team bus in search of lunch.
Kevin O’Sullivan watched.“The way those guys get along, 
the way they support each other, the way they help each other,” the 
coach said, pausing to reﬂ  ect. ”It’s 
a unique situation, but it’s kind of neat to watch.”
Rivera and Schwarz — two 
freshmen, both relied upon in im-
portant moments, and both catch-
ers — formed a bond. 
Their relationship serves as a microcosm of the Gators as a whole.
“This year is the closest team 
I’ve ever been on,” junior short-stop Richie Martin said. “When 
you have younger kids that care 
and older kids that care, then it comes together and makes a great team.”
Florida’s chemistry has been 
most apparent in its defense. 
Of the eight teams in the CWS, 
Florida has the fewest errors (37), the highest ﬁ  elding percentage 
(.985), and is the only team in 
which six of its nine starters have just three or fewer errors.
Martin, second baseman Dalton 
Guthrie and third baseman Josh Tobias have made difﬁ  cult plays look routine all season, and the Rivera-Schwarz catching duo has been one of the best, albeit young-
est, pairings in the country.
“I think that a lot of our person-
ality is that we’ve got some base-
ball players and a lot of guys who 
don’t like to lose,” O’Sullivan said.
 “I think when you combine that 
with ability, which I know we have 
that as well, you have a chance to do something special in the post-
season.”
Bovada, a sports betting web-
site, agrees. At 5/2 odds, UF is the 
favorite to win the CWS, followed 
by LSU (11/4), Vanderbilt (4/1) 
and Miami (9/2).
But defensive ratings and odds 
are the only areas in which the Gators lead the CWS ﬁ  eld.
UF ranks third out of the eight-
teams in batting average (.299), on base percentage (.383), RBIs (409), and runs (450), fourth in strikeouts 
Haeger wins Honda Sports Award
UF senior Lauren Haeger is the 2015 softball recepient of the Honda Sports 
Award, given to the nation's best female athlete in the sport. The honor was based on the results of national balloting among all NCAA member schools as part of The Collegiate Women Sports Awards program. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
The Florida baseball team is advancing to its ﬁ  rst College World Series since the 2012 season. UF is on 
a nine-game win streak. 
Florida motivated, expecting success heading into CWS
AIR JORDAN
Come Saturday, the ﬁ  nal leg of the No. 4 national seed Florida base-ball team’s quest for its ﬁ  rst na-tional title ofﬁ  cially begins.
The Gators open College World 
Series action in Omaha, Nebraska, against 
ﬁ  fth-seeded Miami and are a mere ﬁ  ve wins away from bringing a title to Gainesville.
But as one journey starts, two are com-
ing to an end.
With the trip to Omaha, seniors Josh 
Tobias and Bobby Poyner are effectively counting down their ﬁ  nal days in a UF uni-form.Each has gone through rough 
patches throughout his time at UF — Tobias essentially seeing the bench for half of last sea-son due to a lack of production and Poyner having moments of greatness and lethargy dur-
ing the early goings of his UF 
career.
Luckily for Florida, Poyner 
and Tobias have saved their best season for last.
And as the Gators prepare to play on the 
biggest stage in college baseball for the ﬁ  rst time since 2012, they are going to lean on the two seniors, the only two on the roster who have ever played in a College World Se-ries game.
They know what it takes 
to make it this far, and after a two-year gap between CWS ap-
pearances, they know not to 
take it for granted.
“I think as a freshman, I just 
didn’t understand the magni-tude of it, and you know, ob-
viously how difﬁ  cult it is to get there and what it means,” Poyner said.
Poyner, the left-handed relief pitcher, has career-best marks in ERA (2.73) and strikeouts (56) while giving up just six walks in 59.1 innings of work. He’s 5-2 on the season, with his most recent win com-ing in the Super Regional clincher against Florida State last Saturday.
Tobias, the hot-swinging third baseman, 
leads Florida with a .373 batting average — the second-highest hitting clip among players in the College World Series — while batting as a switch hitter for the ﬁ  rst time in his career. The Greensboro, North Carolina, native also has career-best marks in home runs (ﬁ  ve), doubles (14), triples (ﬁ  ve), and 
UF baseball seniors seeking to close out collegiate careers with national title
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 19
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 19By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
Marquis Dendy continued his historic 
season on Day 1 of the NCAA Outdoor 
Championships.
Dendy completed the conference and 
national sweep of the long jump, winning the event with an 8.43-meter leap and earned 10 team-points for the Gators. 
The victory made it back-to-back long 
jump outdoor national titles for the senior competing in his ﬁ  nal collegiate meet. 
With the help of Stipe Zunic, the No. 1 
Florida men’s track and ﬁ  eld team earned 
16 of 20 team-points and clinched spots in 
seven ﬁ  nal events.
Stipe Zunic ﬁ  nished his ﬁ  nal collegiate 
shot put in third place, topping out at 20.30 
meters to earn six points for the Gators
Florida earned two spots in relay ﬁ  nals 
on Wednesday.
The Gators started the day by winning 
their heat in the men’s 4x100. After start-ing his leg behind the top spot, senior De-
dric Dukes anchored a team that includ-ed Antwan Wright, Arman Hall and Eric Futch to a 38.91-second mark.
Dukes followed the same script in the 
200-meter dash, coming from behind in 
the last 100 meters of the race to ﬁ  nish ﬁ  rst in his heat at 20.03 seconds to earn a 
spot in the ﬁ  nal.
In the 4x400 relay, UF won its heat with 
a 3:04.11-minute ﬁ  nish, clinching a ﬁ  nal-
race birth.
Five individual Gators earned the 
chance to race for the championship in their respective events, including  Najee Glass. 
Along with Dukes, Glass ﬁ  nished ﬁ  rst 
in his heat in the 400-meter sprint with a 45.49-second performance. 
Today will be the ﬁ  rst day of competi-
tion for the No. 6 Florida women.
The Gators will hold eight spots in sev-
en individual events, two of which are in the 200-meter sprint, led by NCAA leader Kyra Jefferson. 
Coach Mike Holloway’s squad will also 
feature a relay team in both the 4x1 and 
4x4 events.18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF track and ﬁ  eld coach Mike Holloway hugs Najee Glass during the ﬁ  nal day of the 
Florida Relays on April 4 at the Percy Beard Track in Gainesville. 
TRACK AND FIELD
Florida in second place following Day 1 of NCAA OutdoorsTHURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
RBIs (41). He’s reached base in 27 consecu-
tive games, dating back to Florida’s series opener against Mississippi State on April 17.
Tobias has also been one of Florida’s 
many rocks on defense, committing just one error in 131 chances, most of which came at third base.
And just as much as coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan needs the JJ Schwarzes and the Harrison Baders and the A.J. Puks and Lo-gan Shores to stay hot and continue the grooves they’ve been on since the postsea-son began, the Gators need the guidance of Tobias and Poyner to keep the team’s com-posure.
They have the experience of playing in 
front of 25,000 roaring fans at TD Ameri-trade Park.
They have the knowledge of playing in 
Omaha and what the ﬁ  eld has to offer.
And they also have the mind-numbing 
memory of leaving Omaha empty handed 
after losing its opening two games and be-
ing eliminated at the hands of Kent State and then not return for redemption either of the next two years.So when Saturday rolls around and the 
ﬁ  rst pitch is thrown, everything will be up for grabs.
And you can be sure Tobias and Poyner 
— and the rest of the Gators — will give it their all.
Play ball.“I just kind of thought it was what hap-
pens next as a freshman,” Poyner said. 
“Now I understand the stage and kind of 
what it’s about. I think we’ve got a good shot.”
COLUMN,  from pg 17Poyner and Tobias only two on Gator's roster to play in CWS(522) and sixth in ERA (3.22). 
The Gators have only three 
players that have been to TD Amer-
itrade Park in Omaha — Tobias 
and Poyner as freshmen in 2012 and Logan Shore as a high-schooler watching from the stands in 2011.
Miami also ﬁ  nds itself with little 
Omaha experience — its last trip to the CWS was in 2008. 
When the Gators face the Hur-
ricanes in the ﬁ  rst round, it’ll be 
a duel between both club's aces: 
UF’s right-hander Shore and UM’s lefty Andrew Suarez.
Neither had the opportunity to 
face each other when their two teams collided in February — Su-arez was scratched from the lineup after straining his oblique minutes before the game, and Shore lasted 
just nine pitches before suffering a 
hip injury in the ﬁ  rst inning.
“We deﬁ  nitely are a lot better of 
a team now than we were at the 
beginning of the year and so are 
they,” Shore said. “It’s going to be a battle.”      
Just before the bottom of the 
ninth inning, before the smiles, cheers and laughter that would 
erupt, before a Reed backﬂ  ip and a 
Schwarz dog pile that would signal the end, Florida huddled outside the ﬁ  rst base dugout. 
Chants of Omaha rained down 
from the stands.
It wasn’t until after the 11-4 win 
over FSU that O’Sullivan fully re-alized the magnitude of what his 
team had accomplished.  
He had taken UF to three previ-
ous World Series appearances, but 
it took a two-year drought for him 
to ﬁ  nally place the past in perspec-
tive.
“It’s hard. The ﬁ  rst three times 
we went, '10, '11, '12, you know, you don’t really realize how difﬁ  -
cult it is to get there,” O’Sullivan 
said. 
“And then you miss in '13, and 
then you miss in '14. And then you 
start thinking, boy this is not easy. 
It’s not easy.”
He appreciates this year’s trip 
more, if not for his previous fail-ures, then for the players who came together to succeed with him.
The sophomore Reed, who 
went un-scouted in high school and hadn’t seriously considered playing college baseball until Flori-
da made him an offer, the only one 
he received.
Shore and A.J. Puk, two pitch-
ers from the Midwest who trekked more than 2,700 miles combined to 
play college ball for O’Sullivan.
Schwarz, the prized recruit of the class of 2015 that far exceeded expectations in his ﬁ  rst year.
Martin, Tobias, Alonso, Bader 
— the list continues.
Florida owes a large portion of 
its success to its unselﬁ  sh play, to 
the older players willing to make way for the younger, rising stars, to its pool of talent, and to its work ethic all year long.
“These kids are hungry to win, 
and I’ve never seen kids like that, that want to win that bad,” Martin 
said.
So far, their will to win has paid 
dividends — Florida is riding a sea-
son-best nine game winning streak 
into World Series, a stretch that in-
cludes wins over almost half of the current ﬁ  eld. 
“Having the opportunity to play 
in Omaha, it’s a dream come true,” 
Shore said.
“But we’re not done yet.”BASEBALL,  from pg 17O'Sullivan gained 
perspective from past 
postseason failures
“I just kind of thought it was what 
happens next as a freshman,” Poyner 
said. “Now I understand the stage and 
kind of what it’s about. I think we’ve got 
a good shot.”
Bobby Poyner
UF senior pitcherNicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF freshman JJ Schwarz (22) celebrates with teammates Peter Alonso (left) and Josh T obias after hit-
ting a home run during Florida's 11-4 win against Florida State on June 6 at McKethan Stadium. 
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2015
