We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 22 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015
UF men’s golf team utilizing depth
The Gators play their second tournament of 
the season on Friday, pg. 14
Inﬁ  nity residents ask for their own senator
About 16 residents came to Tuesday’s UF Student Senate 
meeting, pg. 3
UF organization to discuss race and prison
The talk is today and will address mass imprisonment, pg. 5Pot culture
Students show pot-inﬂ  uenced art, pg. 8
Students show pot-inﬂ  uenced art,
  pg. 8
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
ghall@alligator.org
Errict Rhett, a former Florida 
standout running back and NFL vet-
eran, will lose his house and owe just more than $100,000 to a local community association, according to court documents released Tuesday.
Alachua County Eighth Judicial 
Circuit judge Monica Brasington ruled Thursday that Rhett intended to commit fraud by transferring the deed of his house, located in the Woodﬁ  eld neighborhood, from his nonproﬁ  t corporation, The Errict Rhett Foundation, to his construc-tion company, Errict Rhett Construc-tion, according to the documents.
The legal battle between Rhett, 
who was enshrined in the University Athletic Hall of Fame in 2005 as UF’s career rushing leader, and the Wood-ﬁ  eld Community Association began 
in August 2013 when the associa-
tion ﬁ  led a lawsuit against Rhett for violating the conditions and restric-tions mandated by the subdivision, citing dead grass, rotted wood on the house and an “unsightly 25-foot light pole” as evidence, according to court documents.
On March 9, Alachua County 
Eighth Judicial Circuit Judge Victor Hulslander ordered Rhett to pay the community association $4,647.75 
in taxable costs and $64,522 in at-
torney’s fees for a total sum of $69,169.75, according to the docu-ments.
However, fewer than 20 minutes before the judge’s ruling, Rhett ﬁ  led a pair of liens on the house — one dat-ed July 15, 2013, valued at $127,000 from E. Rhett Construction, owned by Rhett, and another dated June 6, 2012, and valued at $395,000 from Alco Construction Corp., owned by 
Rhett’s brother, Michael, according 
to the documents.
The pair of claims would ensure 
that Rhett wouldn’t have to pay the 
Former UF football player Errict Rhett to lose house
SANTA FE
By Kendaline Watt
Alligator Contributing Writer
Macky Pesch’s eyes wandered up and down 
the Santa Fe College breezeway as he stepped up 
to the patriotic table. Although unsure of what 
he was signing at the time, he turned in his slip, 
put the pen down and grabbed a Tootsie Roll.
“The ﬁ  rst thing I’m gonna do is call my dad 
and tell him now I’m registered to vote,” the 
19-year-old Santa Fe sophomore said.
In honor of National Voter Registration Day, 
Santa Fe’s Ofﬁ  ce of Civic Engagement and Ser-
vice partnered with the Alachua County Supervi-sor of Elections to host a voter-registration sta-
tion on campus for everyone 18 years or older.   
“We’re here to provide opportunities for 
people to vote,” said Kim Barton, the elections 
outreach director for Alachua County Supervisor 
of Elections.
This is the third year the Supervisor of Elec-
tions Ofﬁ  ce has partnered with Santa Fe, Barton 
said. She said the number of participants in-creased from 39 in 2014 to more than 70 this 
year.
Avery Bilodeau said he feels it’s his civic duty 
to register.
“My brother is in the Air Force and protects 
our right to vote, so it’s important to me,” the 
18-year-old Santa Fe business administration freshman said.  More Santa 
Fe students register to vote
THE CELEBRATION WILL 
BE ON FRIDAY.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
afernandez@alligator.org
The Harn Museum of Art is not much 
older than most of UF’s students. 
The museum is hosting “25 Candles” 
on Friday to celebrate its 25th birthday.
The celebration will begin at 6:30 
p.m. with dinner, followed by a cocktail 
hour and after-party. 
“It’s a celebration of what they’ve ac-complished,” said LeAnne Gorris, 22, a UF marketing senior and former intern. “They’ve come so far in creating and es-
tablishing a successful art museum that’s 
for the students as well.”
Dinner tickets have sold out, but tick-
ets to the cocktail hour and after-party are available on the Harn’s website. Cocktail hour tickets are $250 for two or $125 for one. After-party tickets are $50 for two, $25 for one or $20 for UF stu-dents.
UF a cappella group No Southern Ac-
cent and DJ Jarad Bowens will perform at the after-party, said Tami Wroath, di-rector of marketing and public relations at the Harn. There will be ﬁ  reworks at dusk.
“It’s going to be a fabulous time, and 
in addition to that, you’ll be supporting your community and campus art muse-um,” she said.  
Ticket sales from events like this 
make it possible for the museum to offer free admission, Wroath said. 
The Harn’s anniversary exhibition, 
“Conversations,” will feature art gifted to the museum and will open Friday night, 
Wroath said.
“We want to make sure people are in-
cluding art in their life,” she said.
 UF Harn museum to celebrate 25th birthdaySEE FRAUD,  PAGE 4
“My brother is in the Air Force and 
protects our right to vote, so it’s important 
to me.”
Avery Bilodeau
SF business administration freshman
 CATERPILLAR FOR A CAUSE
Jonathan Wakim (middle), an 18-year-old eco-
nomics freshman, stood on Turlington plaza Tuesday dressed as a caterpillar to inform stu-dents about Camp Kesem, a retreat for children whose parents have or have had cancer. The camp is completely funded by staff and student volunteers.  
Eric Heubusch / Alligator Intended to commit fraudSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 22
HIGH  82° LOW  70°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Eva Sailly,  Makayla Thomas,    
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloWHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF Women’s Student 
Association
UF’s Women’s Student Association will be hosting its first general body meeting of 
the semester today from 7 p.m. 
to 8 p.m. in Ustler Hall’s sec-ond floor atrium. The topic of discussion will be focused on women in the entertainment industry.
Gay Movie Night
“Tiger Orange” will be shown 
Friday at 7:30 p.m. at the Pride 
Community Center, located at 3131 NW 13th St. Chet and Todd are estranged gay broth-ers who grew up in a small town. Bad-boy Todd ran off to Los Angeles. Chet stayed at home, mostly closeted, to run the family store and care for 
their dying father. When Todd 
returns home broke and home-less, long-simmering resent-ments boil to the surface as the brothers confront their dif-ferences and similarities. Gay Movie Night is a free service of the Pride Community Center. A $2 donation is requested to 
help cover cost of snacks.
GatorNights
What happens at the Reitz 
stays at the Reitz during GatorNights: Casino Night on Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature casino games with 
prizes, an oxygen bar and mas-
sage therapists. GatorNights will also be hosting showings of the movie “Magic Mike XXL” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with pizza during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Cards. 
Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maxi-mum of one guest to the event.
10th Annual Great Gator 
Health FestThe College of Pharmacy’s 
APhA-ASP will be holding 
its 10th Annual Great Gator Health Fest at the Reitz Union Breezeway on Saturday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Come out for plenty of freebies from CVS Health, Walgreens, Earth Fare market, Zoes Kitchen and more. Get your cholesterol, 
blood pressure and diabetes 
screenings for free!  Learn about issues such as women’s health, poison control and nutrition for free. Bring your entire family and have a good time.
Ward's Supermarket's 
64th Anniversary Fall Food FestivalWard's is celebrating its 64th Anniversary on Oct. 24 with a Fall Food Festival in its park-ing lot from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.There will be live music, beer and wine tastings, and a 
chance to learn more about its 
products, many of which will  be available for sampling. It's a great event for the whole family.
Source Program
The Source Program is a mul-tidisciplinary clinic at the 
UF Levin College of Law that 
serves victims of domestic, dating and sexual violence. The program provides free and confidential legal representa-tion, mental health counseling and case management. Legal interns litigate issues such as immigration and restraining 
orders for protection against 
domestic violence. The pro-gram also has a social worker who specializes in intimate partner violence and provides counseling to clients. Lastly, the program’s victim advocate helps with navigating the legal system and providing valuable 
community resources. If you 
or anyone you know wish to contact the clinic, please call 352-273-0805 or email drake@law.ufl.edu.
Workshop on Academic
 Engagement with CubaThe UF Center for Latin 
American Studies, UF Cuba 
Program, UF International Center and the Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences invite you to attend a workshop on Academic Engagement with Cuba on Tuesday from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. at the UF International Center. 
The workshop is free and open 
to the public, but registration is required. To reserve your seat, please visit EventBrite.com (search: Workshop on Academic Engagement with Cuba).
The 2015 Global Culture
Photography CompetitionUF students, faculty, staff and alumni who traveled abroad, or UF international students and scholars, are eligible to enter the 2015 Global Culture Photography Competition. First-prize winners will each receive $100, second-prize 
winners will receive $50 and third-prize winners will re-
ceive $25. Total prizes will equal $525.
The submission period will be 
open until Oct. 9. For more in-formation, please visit ufic.ufl.edu/PD/photocontest.html, or email mcardec@ufic.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
STATE
Heat to hold training camp at 
Florida Atlantic
MIAMI — The Miami Heat are taking training camp on the road.The Heat will open practice Sept. 29 at Florida Atlantic in Boca Raton, about an hour drive north of Miami. The Heat used to hold camp regularly in the region, and FAU hosted Miami's inaugural preseason game in October 1988.FAU athletic director Pat Chun said the Heat will help generate exposure for the school, like past visits from the U.S. men's and women's national soccer teams have. Chun also says he wants to meet Heat President Pat Riley, "simply because you can make an argument he's one of the greatest winners in American sports history."The Heat will practice eight times at FAU through Oct. 3. Miami has held camps in Florida's pan-handle and the Bahamas in re-cent years.
CORRECTION
In the story called “Vigil hon-
ors Syrian refugees,” Judy Ballich was incorrectly attrib-uted. The correct source is the following: Rana Al-Nahhas, a 
20-year-old UF psychology and 
pre-occupational therapy ju-nior and a member of the Arab Students’ Association (ASA).By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
David Gold is trying to become a better 
Jew.
The UF ﬁ  nance senior was one of nearly 
600 people, mostly students, who attend-
ed the Yom Kippur service at Lubavitch-Chabad Tuesday evening.
“It’s my ﬁ  rst time here, and I decided to 
come when my friends said they were com-ing here,” the 21-year-old said. “My New Year’s resolution is to be a better Jew.”
Gold was one of the few new faces at the 
Jewish student and community center for 
the holiday. While Rosh Hashana attracted 
mostly freshmen to Lubavitch-Chabad last week, Yom Kippur brought more familiar faces to the synagogue.
Just like last week, girls wore dresses and 
boys wore button-down shirts and pants. They were separated during the service by a divider in the middle of the synagogue.
On Yom Kippur, known as the holiest 
day in Judaism, Jews begin fasting at sun-down to achieve atonement.
Lubavitch-Chabad’s rabbi, Berl Gold-
man, said Jews act in an angel-like state by 
fasting. It helps them to focus on the day itself without being distracted by food.
Many Jews celebrated together with a 
hearty dinner directly before the fasting be-
gan.Stefanie Suster, a UF freshman studying 
ﬁ  nance, said she cooked in her dorm with 
friends. She ate chicken, potatoes, beans 
and “lots of watermelon and water”.The 18-year-old went home last week 
for Rosh Hashana, but she is not new to 
Lubavitch-Chabad.
“I’ve been coming here pretty much ev-
ery weekend since Summer B,” she said.
Shellie Frai, a UF public relations fresh-
man, said she had been to the synagogue once before, about one month before Yom 
Kippur.
“I had potatoes and rice,” the 18-year-old 
said. “I think starch is good before fasting.”
Last week, the rabbis wore black to the 
Rosh Hashanah service, which is the Jewish New Year and a time of reﬂ  ection. For Yom Kippur, they wore white.
Goldman began the service with a joke 
and background on the holiday. A rabbi next to him sang prayers in Hebrew and rocked forward and backward.
Goldman said he was impressed with the 
turnout.
“Of course we’re hungry,” he said to 
the room so packed with people that some stood in the back. “But Yom Kippur is not a sad day. It is a happy, completely joyous 
day.”
A second service will be held today from 
10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
John Hursh / Alligator Staff 
The Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Center hosted Yom Kippur ser-
vices Tuesday for students and the community to honor Judaism’s holiest day of the year.
Students attend Yom Kippur services and prepare to fast
16 STUDENTS SPOKE IN FAVOR.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Inﬁ  nity Hall residents pleaded with UF Stu-
dent Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines to 
veto a bill that would group them into District A instead of giving them their own senator.
The debate over representation for Inﬁ  nity 
continued with not one, but 16 voices speak-ing on Inﬁ  nity’s behalf. The students occupied the ﬁ  rst three rows of the Senate chambers at Tuesday night’s meeting.
The bill, passed last week, would make In-
ﬁ  nity a part of District A. To keep Inﬁ  nity from being part of District A, Padron-Rasines would have to veto it.
“It’s truly disappointing,” said Connor Cor-
zine, an Inﬁ  nity Hall resident assistant. “We have about 20 students here today instead of one senator.”
Elena Matarazzo brought up safety con-
cerns. She said her roommate was hit by a car in front of Inﬁ  nity this week.
“Who’s she supposed to go to (about safety issues like this)?” Matarazzo asked Senate. “Joselin, please veto this bill.”
Ray-Ann Lackhee said that residents of In-
ﬁ  nity wouldn’t know they aren’t represented without Corzine.
“I was pretty mad when I found out we 
didn’t have representation,” she said.
Connor Bradley said he hasn’t met any rep-
resentatives from District A.“To show the miscarriage of representation, 
not once have I or anyone from our hall met a representative from District A.”
Bradley said it’s important for this to be re-
solved now so that it’s not a problem for stu-dents in the future.
“We do know what’s going on,” he said.
Maddie McClinton, Rules and Ethics com-
mittee chair, said that Inﬁ  nity is currently rep-
resented by 9 senators from District A. The passed legislation will not go into effect until next Fall, she said.
“We do intend to have Inﬁ  nity Hall as a 
voice in senate,” she said.Infinity Hall residents ask senate for their own senator  
“W e have about 20 students here today 
instead of one senator.”
Connor Corzine
Infinity Hall resident assistantBy Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer 
afernandez@alligator.org 
People around the world can 
watch Gainesville local Mac Stone 
talk about preserving the Everglades on the Philips Center for the Per-forming Arts stage.
Starting today, his TEDxUF talk, 
“Everglades: America’s Wetland,” will be featured on TED.com, a nonprofit organization that hosts a yearly conference where people give talks on a variety of subjects. 
“I don’t think I’ve actually 
wrapped my head around it yet,” said Stone, a 31-year-old conserva-tion photographer.
Kristia Watkins, a UF public re-
lations senior and public relations coordinator for TEDxUF 2016, said she was there when Stone gave his talk in March. He said more kids go to Disney than go camping, meaning 
children don’t like to spend as much 
time in nature. Watkins said she res-onated with this.  
“I was like, ‘Yeah, I’ve been to Disney so many times, but I went camping once, and I hated it,’” the 
21-year-old said. 
Although next year will be the 
seventh year of TEDxUF, it’s still 
pretty small, Watkins said. She said she hopes the exposure from Stone’s talk will increase attendance for the March 2016 conference. 
Stone said he hopes his video will 
inspire people to protect the Ever-
glades. 
“Once they see it, you can’t help 
but fall in love with it and want to 
protect it,” he said. 4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Mac Stone, a local conservation photographer, speaks about preserving the Everglades on the Philips 
Center for the Performing Arts stage during a TEDxUF conference. His talk, “Everglades: America’s Wetland, ” will be featured on TED.com.CAMPUS
By Jenna Kline
Alligator Contributing Writer
 After a one-year hiatus, the UF 
geography club is back in action.
“It is a service, outdoors and 
social club sort of all combined 
into one,” said Hannah Herrero, 
23, a UF geography doctoral stu-dent and member of the club, which will start mentoring geog-raphy students and freshmen this year.
Last school year, the club 
didn’t exist, she said. 
There were about 10 active 
members in the organization the year before and most of those members graduated. 
Nobody stepped up to contin-
ue the club.
But this year, Herrero re-estab-
lished the club, which now has about 25 members and recruits geography students with a pas-sion for geography, Herrero said.
“I decided it’s really important 
to me, and I’m sure there’s other people who would like to see this happen, but they just need to get the ball rolling,” she said.
The club is implementing a 
new mentor program. 
It will allow for a graduate or 
doctoral student to mentor under-graduate students about classes, research opportunities and in-ternships, said Ben Shever, 21, president of the geography club.  
He said he wants the club to 
reach out to freshmen who don’t know what to major in.
Many of the graduate students 
in the club teach courses at UF, so their experience can be helpful to undergraduate students, Her-rero said.
“They’ll be able to men-
tor them not just in the actual classes... but also just give them 
advice on what classes would 
be good to take given their inter-
ests,” she said.
Next month, the club will 
host a camping trip to Manatee Springs State Park, Herrero said.
“We all really like the out-
doors, and nature is an important part of physical and cultural ge-ography,” she said.
The group will be hiking, 
swimming and kayaking, Herrero said.
“And of course we’re going to 
participate in the great American camping activity of s’mores mak-ing,” she said.UF geography club 
returns, adds mentorsTEDxUF speaker goes global
amount owed to the Woodfield Community 
Association, according to the documents.
Rhett also filed a warranty deed — dated 
July 15, 2013, but filed March 9 — transfer-ring the deed of the home from The Errict Rhett 
Foundation to E. Rhett Construction, according 
to the documents. The house had been listed as one of two offices for the foundation since 2006, a year after Rhett purchased the house from former Florida wide receiver Willie Jack-son for $100, according to the documents.
On May 11, the association filed a motion against the foundation, alleging the liens and warranty deed were invalid and issuing a Sher-iff’s levy, asking the Alachua County Sheriff to sell Rhett’s house to pay the $69,169.75 sum owed. Woodfield also alleged in the motion that Rhett filed the liens to avoid paying the sum owed, according to court documents. Just over a month later, on June 16, The Errict Rhett Foundation, which specializes in housing and 
scholarship, suggested bankruptcy, which was 
dismissed after Rhett failed to meet with credi-tors, according to the documents. 
Throughout the court proceedings, Rhett 
missed at least two court hearings and a de-position, resulting in a $3,000 fine, according to a source who attended the hearing on Aug. 27. Rhett’s attorney, Brett Elam, quit after the hearing, according to a source at the hearing. 
Rhett still wasn’t present in court Thursday 
when Brasington ruled the liens and the war-ranty deed invalid because the notary stamp, reportedly stamped by Jerome Cooper, ap-peared to have been altered on all three docu-ments.
As a result of the judge’s ruling, the Sher-
iff levy was granted, and the Woodfield Com-munity Association can move to sell Rhett’s house to pay the sum owed. Rhett now owes just more than $100,000 after recent attorney fees of $33,066.43 were added to the original sum owed. 
Rhett, a native of Pembroke Pines, played 
for the Gators and coach Steve Spurrier from 1990 to 1993. He finished his UF career with 4,163 yards rushing and 34 touchdowns, breaking the record held by NFL Pro Football Hall of Fame running back Emmitt Smith.
Rhett was a first-team All-Southeastern 
Conference selection in 1991 and 1993 and was 
named the Most Valuable Player in the Gators’ 
41-7 victory over the West Virginia Mountain-eers in the 1994 Sugar Bowl. Rhett was select-ed by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the second round of the 1994 NFL Draft, where he played seven seasons before retiring.
FRAUD,  from pg1Rhett missed at least two court hearings and a depositionPRIVATE FUNDS WILL BE USED 
TO MOVE THE STATUE.
Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Emotions overflowed and personal attacks 
fired among Floridians Tuesday night when Alachua County Commissioners voted 3-2 to relocate a controversial Confederate statue in downtown Gainesville.
Commissioners reached the decision after a 
lengthy debate muddled with conflicting opin-ions and interpretations of the statue and what should be done about it.
Under the approved ordinance motioned by County Commissioner Robert Hutchinson, pri-vate funds will be used to move the statue to the museum and maintain it. The motion also requires the museum to display the statue in a public, outdoor space.
In an email sent to Assistant County Man-
ager of Public and Administrative Services Gina Peebles, Matheson Museum Executive Director Peggy Macdonald wrote that the mu-seum’s board of directors had agreed to con-sider accepting the statue.
“Funding for such a move would factor into 
the board’s consideration of any potential of-fer from the County Commission,” Macdonald wrote in the email.
There is currently no exact estimate on how 
much moving the statue will cost. 
County Commissioner Mike Byerly men-tioned one estimate of $11,000 cost during the meeting.
Some see the monuments as symbols of 
racism and white supremacy. Others say the monuments represents Southern heritage.
Michael Tubbs, 55, came from Jacksonville 
to voice his opinion on the statue, which he and many others see as an honor to Confeder-ate soldiers killed in the Civil War.
“The attack on this monument is not an iso-
lated incident,” the construction worker said. 
“After 150 years we are still at war, and 
our enemies wish to erase not only our monu-ments but we as a people,” he said.
County Commissioner Charles Chestnut 
IV, said he wants to be able to use the statue to teach his children about their history and the oppression and slavery African Americans lived through.
It’s important to teach history, he said, oth-
erwise people are doomed to repeat it.
Jason Davis said he never paid much at-
tention to the Confederate statue in downtown Gainesville. The 42-year-old took a closer look 
Tuesday evening, however, before the com-
mission meeting.
“When you think about the Confederacy, it 
brings a lot of division,” said Davis, a Santa Fe College student earning his associate degree. “We don’t need division. We need more unity in the United States.”
The father of a 6-year-old child, Davis said 
he wants to end racism and make a difference 
in society for others and his son.
“I’m working to do all this for him as well,” 
he said.
Commissioners vote to relocate Confederate statue
“It is a service, outdoors 
and social club sort of all 
combined into one.”
Hannah Herrero
Geography club memberWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Rosy Roberts / Alligator 
OUTDOOR MOVIE
Students attend a ﬁ  lm screening of “Two or Three Things I Know About Her” on the Fine Arts Plaza on 
Tuesday. “It’s just really nice to see a movie outdoors, ” said Steve Hersh (back row, second from right), a 29-year- old Library West employee. The ﬁ  lms are shown Tuesday nights from 8  p.m. to 10 p.m.
CAMPUS
By Danielle Veenstra
Alligator Staff Writer
While registering voters in 
2012, Kayla Malone met people 
who couldn’t register.
They were of age. They were 
citizens. But they were once in-carcerated, the 22-year-old said.
“They should have their 
rights restored after (prison),” said Malone, a second-year UF graduate student of urban and regional planning. “Are we real-ly trying to get those who served 
their time back into society?  Re-
storing their rights is one way to do that.”
Today, Malone will attend 
the Students Taking Action Against Racism’s ﬁ  rst discus-sion-based forum of the year, “What You Can’t Get Back: The Human Cost of Mass Incarcera-
tion,” in Pugh Hall Ocora from 
5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
She said she hopes to learn 
creative ways to solve issues of 
mass imprisonment. Since 1980, 
the number of prisoners in the U.S. has increased from 500,000 to 2.2 million, according to the White House’s website.
At the event, four speakers 
will address these problems and their relationship to race. They will talk about their experiences 
with mass imprisonment and 
the research they have uncov-ered that links racism to arrests, said STAAR’s chair, Jennifer Thelusma.  One of the speakers, Justin 
Hosbey, traveled to Alabama to 
interview Anthony Ray Hinton, 
a man who was held on death row for 30 years for a crime he didn’t commit. It took a long time to get through the appeals 
process, and a lot of attorneys 
did not want to take his case.
“Race deﬁ  nitely played a big 
role,” said Thelusma, a 21-year-old political science senior.
But the effects of mass in-
carceration go beyond the indi-vidual. 
“The costs are on the family 
as well,” she said.
The panel will also show how 
people of color are criminalized in the media and how it affects laws that are made to incarcer-
ate individuals, said vice chair 
of programs for STAAR, Harold Joseph.
“There’s no silver bullet for 
combating this problem,” the 21-year-old UF political science and economics senior said. “It might take a while, but it’s im-portant to do what you can.”UF organization to 
discuss race and prison
By Daniela Bulla
Alligator Contributing Writer
HBO Latino director for “Habla” 
Alberto Ferreras is from Spain, and 
people ask him about it.
“Because I speak with an ac-
cent, people always ask me where I 
am from,” Ferreras told UF students 
Tuesday.
That night, Ferreras, a Hispanic 
writer, ﬁ  lmmaker and songwriter, spoke to UF students at the Hispanic Heritage Month’s forum discussion. He was paid $5,000, said HHM ex-ecutive director Susel Ramos.
The discussion was meant to en-
courage students to be proud of their 
Latinx backgrounds, said Linda Sori-
ano, 22, the co-director for the forum. 
“Your experience, and your back-
ground, and your story can really push you forward in any career,” the UF public relations senior said.
Ferreras showed video clips from 
the documentary series “Habla,” il-lustrating the power of the Hispanic 
voice. 
He said that when he was young-
er and lived in Venezuela, he felt like an outsider.  People could hear his 
Spanish accent, so he tried to hide it.
“When you are a child, you just 
want to blend in,” Ferreras said.
Later, he said he realized that be-
ing a minority is an advantage.  Mi-nority students should know their culture is valuable, he said.
UF animal sciences freshman 
Emily Santos said Ferreras’ message touched her heart, and she won’t be ashamed of her accent anymore.
“I feel so much better for being 
Hispanic,” the 18-year-old said.Film director inspires cultural pride“Are we really trying to get 
those who served their time 
back into society?  Restoring 
their rights is one way to do 
that.”
Kayla Malone
UF graduate studentThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Despite absurdity, 
‘Pig-gate’ speaks to  
major concerns
In 2004, future presidential candidate and most inﬂ  uential 
musical artist of the aughts Kanye West rapped, “The people highest up got the lowest self-esteem; The prettiest people do the ugliest things, for the road to riches and diamond rings.”
Why are we quoting Kanye West’s lyrics from 2004? You 
might want to ask British Prime Minister David Cameron.
 On Sunday, the British tabloid “Daily Mail” published an ex-
cerpt from “Call Me Dave,” a forthcoming unauthorized biogra-phy of Cameron by Michael Ashcroft. Ashcroft, a wealthy British politician who has an axe to grind with Cameron for denying him a cushy position in the government, makes serious allegations in the excerpt that undermine any illusion that Cameron is a man of strong moral ﬁ  ber. The excerpt alleges that Cameron, during his purported days in the quasi-secret society Piers Gaveston at 
Oxford University, placed his genitals in the maw of a dead pig 
during an initiation ritual.
This outrageous story has gotten traction for a number of rea-
sons, chief among them being its resemblance to an episode of “Black Mirror,” a dystopian-anthology series created by British television personality and provocateur Charlie Brooker. In the episode “The National Anthem,” the ﬁ  ctional Prime Minister Cal-low ends up having sex with a pig on live television after capitu-lating to terrorist demands.
Although the episode serves more as a commentary on the 
ever-hungry nature of the social media beast, both the episode and the allegations speak to several pertinent questions: Are we correct to perceive many of our leaders as morally bankrupt mon-sters? Are the wealthy and powerful actual boogeymen who place their nethers into the mouths of deceased animals in order to secure their futures as leaders of an aristocratic class?
To answer those questions in short order: yes and probably. 
Regardless of whether Cameron actually violated a dead pig — 
which, let’s be honest, given the shady stuff the stupidly wealthy 
do to secure cooperation among one another is not entirely out of the question — it doesn’t change the fact that as prime minister and a student at Oxford, Cameron and others of his ilk around the world have behaved with total and utter moral impunity as both government ofﬁ  cials and private citizens.
As a politician, Cameron and his conservative cronies have 
widened the wealth gap that has long-deﬁ  ned British political, economic and social culture. As a student, he was involved with 
secret societies like Piers Gaveston and the Bullingdon Club, 
which utilized wealth in obscene fashion. Rumors about these organizations concern recent initiation practices such as burning a £50 note in front of a beggar or throwing lavish, drug-fueled parties.
We’re not ragging on Cameron in particular because we have 
a speciﬁ  c problem with him. We’re ragging on Cameron because there are far too many like him in positions of power around the world. The fact that this salacious rumor has any traction at all 
speaks to the irrefutable record of ethical hypocrisy and deca-
dence that characterize many of the world’s political and social elites. It’s one thing to have sex with prostitutes and do blow — If you have the money that enables you to live your life in such a fashion and you are unafraid of the consequences, then by all means do so! Just don’t punish lower and middle classes for not being able to play in the same ﬁ  eld. If Jeb Bush can get away with smoking marijuana illegally, why can’t law-abiding citizens use it for medicinal purposes? Leaders, regardless of wealth, ought to 
be held to the same standards as the rest of us.Marco Rubio is a disgrace to the university
Last week, Marco Rubio, Florida’s junior 
senator, took a cheap shot and gave the world a glimpse into his character.
On the phone with KXnO, a Des Moines 
sports radio station, he quipped, “Look, I 
don’t have anything against Florida State. I think there has to be a school where people that can’t get into Florida can go to college, and so that’s why we have Florida State.”
Obviously, it was beyond foolish as a cam-
paign move to alienate thousands of alumni, stu-dents and fans of a major nationally recognized research university. I took offense because I was accepted into both Florida State University and UF for my undergrad-
uate and was very impressed by the stellar professors and 
excellent education that FSU offers.
But Rubio’s words shine light on a phrase that is beyond 
being simply mistaken: He’s demagogic and arrogant. A politician’s politician, he knew it wasn’t about what he said, but who was listening.
That is to say Mr. Rubio is a panderer-inauthentic at best, 
and a liar at worst.
During his campaign for senator, in an attempt to bolster 
votes from the Latino community and conservative voters, Rubio maintained (and even published on his campaign website) that he “was born in Miami to Cuban-born parents who came to America following Fidel Castro’s takeover.”
Reporters later discovered that his parents left in 1956, 
when Fidel was in exile two and a half years before the Cuban Revolution.
Rubio even admitted later that his parents were able to 
return to Cuba after the revolution but ultimately settled in 
Miami.
It speaks to Rubio’s inconsistency that he reserves his 
criticism for the government of Fidel Castro but doesn’t view 
Fulgencio Batista’s U.S.-supported dictatorship, the likes of which his parents escaped, as a threat to human rights.
Forget Rubio’s loyalty to the state of Florida; he’s not 
even loyal to the Republican Party. As reported by the Tam-pa Bay Times, Rubio, as Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives, used the party credit card, desig-nated for campaign use, to purchase thousands of dollars worth of personal items. What does it say about Rubio that he steals from his own people?
Now, why is it important that we take note of 
these things, especially as Rubio is far from the only politician who behaves this way?
As college students at one of Florida’s many 
excellent centers of higher education, we are a crucial part of the future for our state and coun-try.
Rubio — and other politicians alike — seek 
to incite their constituency and are indifferent to the truth. These individuals pose a distinct threat to our country and 
by extension to us, the residents of the U.S. 
The Rubios of the world only advance because people 
buy into their delusions of grandeur and extreme self-love, 
voting for them and allowing them to accumulate more power. We, as a generation of Floridians, can stop him.
The Gators should not derive any pride or school spirit 
from some sense of inherent superiority over FSU or any other university in Florida. Rather, each student should be proud because of his or her accomplishments and the small 
role he or she plays in ensuring a better future for Florida, 
the U.S. and the world.
Furthermore, we should not take pride in alumni like Ru-
bio who try to gain support while sowing seeds of division in Florida. What pride should UF have in educating Marco Rubio? Is he a positive extension of the Gator Nation?
Reﬂ  ecting on Rubio’s character and career provides a 
sense of amusement that he ﬁ  nds himself qualiﬁ  ed to lead the U.S. However, it should also give pause — As dema-
gogues like Rubio rise to the top, their lies and deception are 
seldom a hindrance to their success.
For these reasons, all Floridians should take note of the 
sardonic attitude and offensive actions of Rubio and his ilk, as he will only continue to advance in government if he is not apprehended by an electoral upset.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics mas-
ter’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgLetter to the Editor
The absence of a senator for the new residence hall, In-
ﬁ  nity Hall, motivated me to attend the Student Senate meet-
ing Sept. 15. I learned that my representatives in the Senate 
were the District A senators, none of which live in Inﬁ  nity. 
During this meeting I voiced my concerns; however, they were not heard by the majority in the Senate. 
It is important that residents like myself have a voice in 
Student Government. An Inﬁ  nity Hall senator can address issues that are unique to my experience as a resident. As UF students residing in a non traditional-housing building, we encounter issues other current constituents of District A do 
not. These issues can only be heard by a voice in the Sen-
ate, and right now, that voice is absent. For a new party to come to campus and say Inﬁ  nity Hall doesn’t get a chance to make an impact is shocking.
I urge a re-examination. All we ask is for a discussion, and I wish outreach from senators in the majority had come sooner. I am very disappointed in the majority of Student Senate for failing to meet the basic representative needs of 
residents in Inﬁ  nity Hall. I only hope they act on this in time 
for the Fall 2016 election so our voices will be heard.  
Connor Corzine
Inﬁ  nity Hall residentWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
This weekend I embarked on a sweaty, bug-bite-infested journey to Camp 
Crystal Lake, which is a 
little north of Gainesville, 
in an attempt to educate Honors freshmen about all the different 
facets of UF they can take ad-
vantage of.
H-Camp, as it’s called, was a 
great experience. I give a hearty shoutout of appreciation to the Honors Program direc-
tors and advisers who made this possible, 
to the campers who stuck through the lack of air-conditioning in 90 degree weather in order to make some new friends, and to my 
fellow staff members, who I’ve now fondly 
seen in various stages of exhaustion, frus-tration and joy.
To anyone who has ever been to one (or 
more) H-Camps in their day: Y’all rock.
However, despite my dedication to and 
love for continuing this tradition of my col-lege years, this time around H-Camp im-peded me from watching the star-studded 
performance I was looking forward to: the 
67th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards.
As anyone who has read my columns 
somewhat consistently might know — un-derstandably, this group most likely con-
sists mainly of my family members, who all 
receive email links from my dad — I love to write about award shows.
It started with the Golden Globes last 
spring, when I extolled the virtues of the combined force of greatness that is Tina Fey and Amy Poehler hosting the show to-gether. Since then, I discussed the #fail of the Oscars and, more recently, the atten-
tion-grabbing Video Music Awards.
I’m sad to have missed the Emmys live 
this year, but I did make up for it by watch-
ing as many clips and summaries as pos-
sible.
From what I can gather, the Emmys 
had good and bad moments for everyone, 
which is pretty much the norm.
There are the main talking points of the 
night, the ones everyone loved. These in-clude when Viola Davis became the ﬁ  rst African-American woman to win an Emmy for Outstanding Actress In a Drama — 
what a killer speech, am I right? Then there 
was when Jon Hamm ﬁ  nally got his Emmy and fulﬁ  lled all my “Mad Men” dreams, and when former “30 Rock” star Tracy Morgan presented the Best Drama award 
and discussed his road to recovery from the 
horrible highway accident he was in last year, which made me happy and sad and nostalgic for his days as “Tracy Jordan” all 
at once. It’s good to have you back, Tracy.
Andy Samberg, the host of the night, 
predictably fulﬁ  lled the goals of an awards 
-night host. There were some good jokes, some awkward moments and a lot of in-terspersed digital shorts and comedy-sketch-style bantering. We also got a password to Sam-
berg’s HBO Now account, which I 
wasn’t expecting.
Apparently, the password real-
ly worked, which was even more 
surprising. That was fun and all, 
but I couldn’t help thinking that HBO Now might be a wee-bit 
worried about its business.
Samberg also did what most award 
show hosts love to do recently: He jumped on the bandwagon of undermining awards, producers and Hollywood itself by slyly and comically slipping in references to so-
cial-justice issues like LGBTQ dramatism, 
racism in TV and ﬁ  lm industries.
While it’s not bad that hosts are using 
their coveted time on live TV — when a good chunk of the social media world is 
tweeting, hashtagging or commenting on 
every move they make — to bring atten-tion to real issues people ﬁ  ght against ev-ery day, I feel some hosts are only ascrib-
ing to such little asides for either the shock 
value or the inherent appeal to the liberal masses.
Granted, I am a member of the liberal 
masses, and I appreciate the fact that Sam-berg called out Hollywood on its racist double standards, but it felt a little forced, a little too much like a cop-out response.
In a way, Samberg almost acknowl-
edged my reluctance to take his words at face value: “The big story this year is di-versity,” Samberg said at one point in the 
show.
I love the Emmys because I love the 
stars and the excitement, but let’s take a 
moment to remember that these hot-button topics the award shows chat about are 
rooted in real social issues, not punchlines. 
Diversity issues in the movie industry are legitimate and need solutions, not just top-trending stories.
Sally Greider is a UF English and public 
relations junior. Her column appears on Wednesdays.Social issues are real and should 
be more than Emmy punchlines Column
Michael Schuering is the visiting associate pro-fessor of history at the 
UF Center for Euro-
pean Studies. His po-
sition is partly funded by DAAD, the Deutscher Akademischer 
Austausch Dienst, or the German 
Academic Exchange Service. He is currently teaching “Weimar Germany Culture” and “Genes, Blood and the Body.”
AM: Can you tell me about DAAD op-
portunities?
MS: The DAAD has scholarship pro-
grams for everyone: long-term, short-term and language courses for undergraduates, graduating seniors, master’s and Ph.D. students, and faculty. The programs are designed above all for those who need to 
study and do research in Germany. The 
DAAD has an annual budget of about 430 million euros, which currently equals $485 million. In 2012 and 2013, the DAAD sup-
ported more than 10,000 grantees from the 
U.S. and Canada.
AM: How do German students choose 
their universities?
MS: Universities in big cities attract a 
lot of students, but many choose their uni-versities according to their ﬁ  eld and the re-spective faculty. I went to the University of 
Munich because history was strong there. 
Munich was also far away from where I grew up, but the great thing about college life is learning to stand on your own feet. I wanted this experience of unfamiliarity, of 
confronting difﬁ  culty. Then I went to Ber-
lin, partly because in the mid-90s it was the place to be to witness German re-uniﬁ  ca-tion at work.
AM: How did you end up at UF?MS: The DAAD has 21 North American 
DAAD professorships. UF has had DAAD professors for some time, as has the Uni-
versity of California, Berkeley, where I was 
previously a DAAD professor before com-pleting my research at the Deutsches Mu-seum in Munich.
AM: What is the thesis of your new book?MS: It deals with the anti-nuclear move-
ment in West Germany between 1970 and 1990. This has been a divisive and deﬁ  n-
ing issue from which a new party came: 
the Greens. I was interested in the relation between religion and technology and how the Protestant church dealt with nuclear 
energy. The book will be published in Ger-
many in December of this year, and I hope to have it translated soon after. Environ-mental history is huge in Germany, just like the environmental spirit there.
AM: What was your earlier research on?MS: I wrote my dissertation 
on Jewish scientists who were expelled by the National Social-
ist regime after 1933. I was inter-
ested in what happened to them after they had left and their post-1945 relations to former German 
colleagues — how they dealt 
with Germany and how Germany dealt with them.
AM: What attracted you to the history 
of science?
MS: I have sometimes found the way sci-
ence has impacted the outlook and struc-ture of modern society undervalued by 
general historians. Science has changed our 
lives profoundly over the last 200 years. Scientiﬁ  c research has brought about huge potentials of production and destruction. It has fought diseases but also created the 
ability to destroy the planet.
AM: What made you become a histo-
rian?
MS: That dates way back to my child-
hood when I realized what a strange coun-
try I’d been growing up in. You see the scars of recent history much more clearly in Germany than in other countries. I listened 
to stories my grandparents told of life dur-
ing the war, and I’ve always asked ques-tions about my family’s involvement and how they thought about the past. At one 
point in my life, I started studying history, 
and I never knew how to stop.
AM: What do you see as the role of his-
torians?
MS: Historians should be researchers 
and teachers and strive to be public intel-lectuals. They should look for a large audi-ence and comment on current affairs. We 
have learned quite a few things about hu-
man nature from history, and we should share this for the common good. I hope the ideals of a liberal-arts education are stable enough to motivate students to visit history 
classes, to broaden their perspectives and 
see how things came about. Such study also encourages critical and analytical thinking. Historians of science in particular should 
encourage STEM students to contemplate 
the history of their own ﬁ  elds of study.
Studying history is like traveling: Visit-
ing another century is like visiting another country. The effects are profound but not 
always tangible, similar to the effects of 
studying art and literature. Confronting oneself with the unfamiliar, both cultur-ally and intellectually, furthers skills that 
are difﬁ  cult to evaluate or measure but may 
nonetheless prove to be of immeasurable value.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and 
Spanish senior. Her column usually ap-
pears on Mondays.‘Studying history is like traveling’Column
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.org
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
“In a way, Samberg 
almost acknowledged 
my reluctance to take 
his words at face 
value:  'The big story 
this year is diversity,' 
Samberg said at one 
point in the show.”STUDENTS SHOW 
POT-INFLUENCED ART.
By Nicole Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Marijuana was a gateway drug 
to Polynesian dance for UF physics 
freshman Alex Couture.
The 19-year-old said he started 
attending music festivals the same 
time he started smoking pot.  At 
these festivals, he saw people spin poi, a New Zealand dance where people spin sometimes-flaming balls on ropes.
At a meeting for the National Or-
ganization for Reforming Marijuana Law Gators on Tuesday night, Cou-ture spun poi, spinning around the balls in a classroom.  The meeting 
focused on cannabis’ influence on 
art. 
Couture and five other students 
performed dances and raps and 
showed artwork they said marijua-
na helped them create.  About 15 
people watched. 
“I pretty much suck when I’m 
not baked,” Couture said.
Jordan Shepherd, 23, who was 
president of NORML Gators in 2010, freestyle rapped, which he said he’s 
been doing for 16 days. He began writing a mixtape, but gave up af-ter writing three pages that his ex-girlfriend’s cat pooped on.
“If I was high right now, it would 
be easier to do,” said Shepherd, who had come straight from work-ing at Sushi-2-Go.
Current NORML Gators Presi-
dent Brandon Harvey said this was the third yearly NORML Gators art and cannabis meeting. He per-formed a rap with 21-year-old UF chemical engineering senior Taylor Col.
“Cannabis can really help you be 
creative, and it’s pretty fun to rap 
about,” he said. “There are a lot 
of cannabis-related words you can 
rhyme with.”8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015
Pot Culture
ABOVE LEFT:
Alex Couture spins poi in a Little Hall classroom Tuesday. He said he brought the balls to the meeting without planning to perform. “I just kind of walk around with these, ” he said.
ABOVE RIGHT:
Jordan Shepherd, a 23-year-old sushi roller and former presi-dent of NORML Gators, jumps in to freestyle rap during the club’s meeting on cannabis and creativity Tuesday. “Sober is hard, guys, ” he said, laughing, af-ter his performance.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Barbara Garrow, treasurer of NORML Gators, shows off oil and acrylic paintings she said marijuana helped her create. “I feel like art is very relaxing for me, and also cannabis is, ” the 21-year-old UF wildlife ecology and conservation senior said. “So it’s like double whammy. Awesomeness. ”
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
IT HAPPENED AT WALGREENS.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local 
woman Monday morning after she report-
edly shoplifted and punched a woman in 
the face.
About 1:40 p.m. Sunday, Marie K. 
Brown, 48, reportedly walked into the 
Walgreens on East University Avenue and 
placed $84 worth of clothing in a shopping 
cart, according to a police report.
Nancy Hendler, 60, said she saw 
Brown leaving the store with a basket full of clothes, and that’s when she grabbed 
Brown’s arm.
“It was like ‘Hey, what do you think 
you’re doing?” Hendler said.
Hendler has multiple sclerosis, but 
said she still reacted on instinct. She said 
Brown then hit her on the side of her head.  “She not only hit a senior citizen, but 
a disabled senior citizen,” Hendler said.
After being arrested just after 8 a.m. 
Monday, Brown told police she stole the clothes to support her crack cocaine ad-
diction. 
Brown also said she 
was drunk and couldn’t remember if she pushed or punched Hendler, ac-cording to the report.
Ofﬁ  cers later discov-
ered that Brown had a 
violation of parole war-
rant for battery on a law enforcement of-ﬁ  cer, according to the report.
Since 1985, Brown has been found 
guilty on 22 various counts of theft and other charges, according to Alachua Coun-ty court records.
Police arrested Brown on charges of 
larceny and battery and took her to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, she remains in lieu of a $5,000 bond.GNV woman arrested for 
battery, hit disabled elder
Brown
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local man 
early Tuesday morning after he reported-
ly posted revealing photos of his wife on 
Facebook and burned her shoes.
About 12:45 a.m. Tuesday, Glover 
Smith, 43, reportedly uploaded three pho-
tos of his partially nude wife after an ar-
gument caused her to leave their home, 
according to a police report.
She didn’t know the photos existed un-
til Smith sent her text messages about the Facebook post, according to the report.
Smith further taunted his wife by say-
ing he would like the post, and she be-came worried their son would see it on her page, according to the report.
Smith then placed 15 pairs of his wife’s 
shoes in a burn pit and set them on ﬁ  re causing $500 in losses, according to the report. 
He continued the social media tantrum 
by uploading photos of the burning shoes, 
followed by a comment that said, “Now 
you have two pairs of 
shoes.”
He also wrote, “I am 
going to burn your s**t,” 
and, “You said it is over 
and you got all mine so I burn all yours,” accord-ing to the report.   
His wife declined to 
comment.
Smith later told police he lashed out 
against his wife of seven years because she angered him.
Police arrested Smith on charges of cy-
berstalking and criminal mischief and took him to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains without bond.GNV man burns 15 pairs 
of his wife’s shoes
Smith
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!
Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    9-29-15-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE MID DECEMBER!2BR/2BA at The Laurels Apt, $940/mo through July 2016, 1 mo free! Will pay $50 app fee! Full size W/D in unit. Call Yvonne @ 407-489-9323    9-25-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
Roommate-large beautiful T/HWanted-non smoker, clean, responsibleIncl-all utilities, cable pool, fitness10 min to Santa Fe- 15 to UF $550/moCall- 941-356-4841       10-5-15-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
The Gamer Garage is here to fix your PS3 and Xbox 360 disk drives! Installing new or used drives for competitive prices. Call 352-363-0717 and check us out on FB/thegamer-garagegainesville     9-23-15-1-8
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
GOATS - $125 - $250SHEEP - $200 - $300
Call Michael 352-316-2427     9-29-15-5-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified7 Computers 1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 4 Roommates 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Designated drivers are the greatestAnother Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Seeking responsible and engaging individual 
to supervise and work with children ages 3-6 
in our After School Program. M-F, 2:25-6:00 
PM. Must be 18 years or older. Start immedi -
ately. Please submit resume and application 
to mmschool@millhopper.com    9-29-15-5-
14
KICKOFF
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
SEP 4 - NEW MEXICO STATE
SEP 11 - EAST CAROLINA
SEP 25 - TENNESSEE
OCT 2 - OLE MISS
OCT 30 - GEORGIA (JAX)
NOV 6 - VANDERBILT (HOMECOMING)
NOV 20 - FLA ATLANTIC
NOV 24 - FSU
DEC 4 - SEC CHAMPIONSHIP
CONTACT YOUR
SALES REP TODAY
352-376-4482RUN 5 OF 9 DATES AND RECEIVE 15% OFF  
KICKOFF
ADVERTISE IN THE ALLIGATOR’S 2015 FOOTBALL EDITION 
ACROSS
1 Radiated joy
7 “Hi and Lois”
pooch
11 Fair grade
14 Smithy fixtures
15 Literary pen
name
16 Half of a steep
price?
17 Refused18 Aggressive
property seizure
20 Video game
pioneer
21 Unit to plow22 Church section
near the altar
23 Red Square
shrine
25 Suffix with church
26 Disdainful chorus27 Golden Fleece
ship
29 Campaign
funding org.
32 Pet hair picker-
upper
37 Cope with
change
40 Long-jawed fish
41 Farm machinery
giant
42 Green Hornet’s
great-uncle, with“The”
45 Hit hard46 First-year law
student
47 Word on some
doors
50 Ship leader:
Abbr.
52 Stretch between
new moons
58 Away from port
59 Lots
60 “Gone With the
Wind” family
name
61 Sharp-sighted63 ’80s-’90s Mets
pitcher
nicknamed “Dr.K”
64 Stan of Marvel
Comics
65 Only66 Ancient Chinese
divination text
67 Violinists’ sect.68 Binding vows69 Summer wearDOWN
1 __ reader: grade
school text
2 Related
maternally
3 Birdlike
4 Central vein of a
leaf
5 Weather-
affectingphenomenon
6 Brit. military
decoration
7 Big name in auto
parts
8 Apprehension9 Place to get a
Cab
10 Wander (about)11 One sharing a
ride
12 Rub off13 Dying fire bit19 Honkers on the
ground
21 Punctuation in
email addresses
24 Costa del __
28 “The Twilight
Zone” creator
Serling
29 Buddy30 Brouhaha
31 Kitchen gadget
with a magnet33 Pester34 Rock-boring drill35 Historical period36 Dream letters38 Binoculars brand39 Otto minus
cinque
43 Ameliorated44 Play about robots48 Kiss49 Sounds of
seasonal joy
50 Phones51 Up to this
moment
53 Unborn, after 
“in”
54 Points of
connection
55 Apex antonym56 Lott from
Mississippi
57 Puts on a hook62 Brit. recording
giant
63 Enlistees, briefly
By Gerry Wildenberg
©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/23/1509/23/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, September 23, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
We are a local Christian Preschool hiring 
a young two/older three year old afternoon assistant. Must have experience working with children. 45 hour DCF training is not re-quired, but preferred. This is a PART TIME position, only 20 hours/week- you must be able to work Monday through Friday 1:30-5:30. Please reply by calling Angie or Brittani between 10:00am and 3:00pm at 352-373-5856   10-1-15-10-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
PETITION CIRCULATORS NEEDEDUp to $20-30 per hour or moreNo experience necessary Start today(386) 233-9939    10-8-15-14-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring finishers. Performance based pay $10-$15 hr. Must have drivers license and weekend availabil -
ity. Apply online or in person. parkplacecar -
wash.com or 7404 NW 4th Blvd   9-25-15-4-14AllChem Industries is looking for an accounts payable / admin assistant. Three afternoons 
per week 1.30-5.30pm, one of the afternoons 
must be Friday. Up to six month position with 
potential to continue depending upon the 
needs of the business. Send your resume to 
rp0709@allchem.com.    9-29-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida's men's golf team, led 
by coach JC Deacon, will look to ride the team's momentum into Friday's tournament in T ennessee. Read the story on pg. 14. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
UF runner collects Southeastern Conference 
After winning the first individual cross country title of his five-year career 
with the Gators, redshirt senior Eddie Garcia was named the Southeastern Conference Men's Runner of the Week on Tuesday. Garcia clocked the sixth-fastest 8,000-meter time by an SEC runner this season. By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
In the short time he’s been at 
Florida, freshman wide receiver 
Antonio Callaway has built a repu-
tation as a big-play threat.
Against Kentucky on Saturday, 
Callaway made a highlight reel 
catch in the second quarter, snar-
ing a Will Grier pass with one hand 
and taking it 34 yards. 
It’s these glimpses of his ability 
that made Callaway a recruit sought after by head coach Jim McElwain.
“I’m sure glad he’s a Gator,” 
McElwain said. “We knew that when we recruited him. You’re go-ing to see more and more get-it-tos for him as he still kind of learns and does things.”
Callaway didn’t have much time 
to get acclimated in McElwain’s of-fense, not arriving on campus until this Summer.
But it didn’t take him long to 
start making his presence felt.
Just before Fall camp, wide 
receiver Brandon Powell said at Southeastern Conference Media 
Days that Callaway was one of the 
freshmen that stood out to him dur-ing player-run workouts. 
Callaway hasn’t stopped im-
pressing those around him as he’s learned the playbook. 
And now, in practices leading 
up to games, defensive backs like Marcus Maye have noticed what he brings to the table.
“For him to be just getting here 
in the Summer and coming along 
so fast, he’s doing a great job,” 
Maye said. “In practice he runs all the routes hard, comes out in his breaks and catches the majority of balls that comes his way. He’s back at punt return, kick return, you 
know just put him anywhere and 
make plays.”
Callaway comes from a winning 
pedigree at the high school level. An integral part of Miami’s Booker 
T. Washington high school team 
last year, he led the Tornadoes to the 2014 Class 4A state title as a se-nior. The 5-foot-11 wideout was a 
big play threat, netting 31 catches 
for 818 yards — a 26.4 yards per catch average — and seven touch-downs en route to being named to the 2014 Class 4A All-State First 
Team.
He’s continued that trend this 
year for the Gators, starting each 
of the first three games. While he 
doesn’t have eye-popping numbers, 
his versatility has been on display. 
Callaway has four catches for 
60 yards and two rushing attempts totaling 17 yards. He’s also taken 
over as the Gators’ primary punt 
returner, replacing Vernon Har-greaves III after the cornerback missed the East Carolina game with 
a leg injury.
In the two games he’s been re-
turning punts, he’s averaged 15.5 
yards per return, good enough for Freshman wide receiver making early impact for Gators
SIX OF THE GATORS' 13 PLAYERS 
OPTED TO PLAY FOR UF AFTER 
BEING TAKEN IN MLB DRAFT. 
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
For the third time in UF coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan’s nine-year tenure, the Florida 
baseball team hauled in the nation’s top re-cruiting class.
Six Southeastern Conference schools 
landed inside the top 10 of the ranking, with Florida, South Carolina and Mississippi State securing the top-three spots.
The ranking, released by Collegiate Base-
ball on Tuesday, only takes into account play-ers who are enrolled in school the Fall semes-ter prior to the season and does not take into account recruits who signed professional con-tracts following the 2015 MLB Draft.Six of Florida’s 13 incoming players were 
taken in June’s draft but opted to enroll in 
school instead. Highlighting the list are short-
stop Jonathan India and pitcher Brady Singer.
India, the top-ranked middle infielder in 
the 2015 recruiting class and the No. 14 pros-pect overall out of the state of Florida, is ex-pected to make an immediate impact for the Gators as they try to replace first-round draft pick Richie Martin.
Singer, a second-team high school All-
American and the No. 17 right-handed pitch-ing prospect in the 2015 recruiting class ac-cording to Perfect Game, looks to make an impact on a UF pitching staff that posted a 3.18 ERA and held opponents to a .232 bat-ting average.
But with the Gators returning all four of its 
starters from last year’s College World Series team — Logan Shore, A.J. Puk, Alex Faedo 
and Dane Dunning — Singer will more than 
likely be slated to begin his UF career as a re-liever. Florida baseball brings in 
No. 1 recruiting class Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Antonio Callaway celebrates with teammates after Demarcus Robinson scores a 
touchdown during Florida's 31-24 win against East Carolina on Sept. 12 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15He also returns punts for Florida
NOTEBOOK
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Florida is looking to go 4-0 for the first 
time since 2012 when they face Tennessee 
on Saturday at 3:30 p.m. in The Swamp. 
The Gators (3-0, 1-0 Southeastern Con-
ference) have won the last 10 against the Volunteers (2-1), taking home the victory by an average of 13.9 points. 
But Tennessee, led by third-year head 
coach Butch Jones, has no plans of back-ing down. Here’s what to expect from the Volunteers.
Offense:
Tennessee has had a knack for finding 
the endzone early this season. 
Through three games, the Volunteers 
are averaging 46 points per game, tied with Texas A&M for second in the SEC. The run game carries the Volunteers propelled by sophomore Jalen Hurd who leads UT with 
300 rushing yards and five touchdowns on 
58 carries. He will look to test Florida — the top-ranked run defense in the conference (55.3 yards/game). 
But while Tennessee’s run game is thriv-
ing, second-year starting quarterback Josh Dobbs is still finding his rhythm this sea-son. After breaking out late in 2014, the ju-nior has completed just 58.1 percent of his 
passes and is averaging 158 yards through 
the air.
Defense:
While the Volunteers have made big 
plays on offense during its non-conference slate, the defense still has room to grow. 
Tennessee prides itself on its front-seven 
and ability to get into the opponent’s back-field. 
The Volunteers have 20 tackles for loss, 
a number that can easily climb if Florida’s Scouting the Tennessee Vols
SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 15 
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
The alligatorSports’ Gators in the NFL 
series continues after Week 2, where the 
highlights include interceptions, sacks, a 
fumble recovery and a pair of Gators lead-
ing the Washington Redskins to a win over the St. Louis Rams.
Offense: Following a poor showing 
in Week 1, Washington received the most production from any current Gators in the NFL.
Rookie running back Matt Jones rushed 
for 123 yards on 19 attempts with two touchdowns, and tight end Jordan Reed hauled in six catches for 82 yards in the 
Redskins’ 24-10 win over St. Louis. 
Reed and Jones have combined to score 
three of the Redskins’ four touchdowns 
this season.
After recording his first career 100-yard 
game, Jones was nominated for both NFL Rookie of the Week and FedEx Ground Player of the Week.
Percy Harvin had a decent day in Buf-
falo’s 40-32 loss to New England, tallying four catches for 47 yards and returning two kicks for a combined 45 yards.
Tampa Bay receiver Louis Murphy came 
off the bench to record three catches for 82 yards, his first contribution of the 2015 season.Defense:  Fourteen former Gators 
logged playing time on NFL defenses in Week 2, nine of whom started.
Baltimore safety Will Hill and Minnesota 
defensive end Justin Trattou both recorded interceptions, while Cleveland corner Joe Haden tallied six tackles, a deflected pass 
and a fumble recovery. For the second straight week, Miami 
linebacker Jelani Jenkins led all former Gators with 12 tackles, including two tack-
les for loss.
Cincinnati defensive end Carlos Dunlap 
recorded six tackles and 1.5 sacks, his sec-
ond straight week with at least one sack. 
Safety Reggie Nelson recorded four tackles for the Bengals.
Defensive tackle Jaye Howard led Kan-
sas City with seven tackles in the Chiefs’ 
31-24 Thursday night loss to Denver. 
After failing to record a tackle in Week 
1, defensive end Jeremy Mincey finished 
with three tackles in the Cowboys’ 20-10 
win over Philadelphia, including one for  a loss.
Dan Quinn:  Former Florida defensive 
coordinator Dan Quinn, now the Atlanta Falcons’ head coach, is 2-0 to start the sea-
son. 
The Falcons’ defense has allowed 22 
points per game but only 80 rushing yards 
per game, good for ninth in the NFL. 
The Falcons also rank fifth in the NFL in 
total offense (398.5) and third in passing yards per game (318).
Offensive line:  Four offensive line-
men appeared in Week 2 NFL games: Max Garcia (Denver), Jonotthan Harrison (Indi-
anapolis), Marcus Gilbert (Pittsburgh) and 
Mike Pouncey (Miami). Both Pouncey and Gilbert allowed zero sacks.
Inactives:  Tackle Trent Brown did 
not play for San Francisco and tackle D.J. Humphries (Arizona), linebacker Jonathan 
Bostic (Chicago), linebacker Lerentee Mc-
Cray (Denver), receiver Frankie Hammond (Kansas City), defensive end Dominique Easley (New England) and safety Major 
Wright (Tampa Bay) were listed as inac-
tive.14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015
AP Photo
Washington Redskins running back Matt Jones (31) dives for extra yardage during 
the second half of the Redskins’ 24-10 win against the St. Louis Rams on Sunday. 
Alligator File Photo
Ryan Orr swings during Day 1 of the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 14 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
JC Deacon has a deep roster, 
and he’s not afraid to use it. 
As second-year head coach of 
the men’s golf team, Deacon runs 
a meritocracy. 
If you don’t play well in quali-
fying leading up to a tournament, 
don’t expect to start.  In that 
vein, UF will bring just two play-ers who competed in the Carpet Capital Collegiate, freshmen Sam Horsfield and Jorge Garcia, to this 
weekend’s Dick’s Sporting Goods 
Collegiate Challenge Cup. 
Florida will bring the five-man 
lineup of Horsfield, Ryan Orr, 
Garcia, Ryan Celano, and Gordon 
Neale to compete at the Golf Club of Tennessee in Kingston Springs, Tennessee, on Friday.  
Horsfield will be looking to 
ride the momentum from his im-pressive play at the Carpet Capi-tal Collegiate on the weekend of Sept. 11. The freshman tied for 
fourth, finishing at 1-under par in 
the first tournament of his college career. 
“I wasn’t surprised at all that 
he finished in the top five in his 
first event ever.” said Deacon. 
“He’s so poised. He’s so confi-
dent and calm. He doesn’t panic. 
He knows exactly what he’s do-
ing. ...He’s going to be a real on-course leader for us this year.”
Playing behind Horsfield will 
be junior Ryan Orr. 
Despite not making the start-
ing lineup for the season-opener, 
Orr remained focused, shooting 
14-under in three rounds of quali-
fying to earn a spot in Kingston Springs.
“I can’t imagine how he felt 
not being included in the first tournament,” Deacon said of Orr. 
“He didn’t complain one time, 
he didn’t sulk, and he said to me before we left, he said, ‘don’t worry about me coach I’m gon-
na get up and be alright.’ And, 
you know, it wasn’t only talk, he played unbelievable this last week.”
Jorge Garcia will be playing 
his second college tournament in the three slot this weekend. 
Despite finishing 12-over in his 
first competition, Garcia bounced 
back to shoot the Gators’ second 
best score in qualifying last week, solidifying his place in the start-ing lineup for Friday.
“Jorge has been struggling a little bit and is just trying to get his confidence back,” Deacon 
said.
“Coming home this week and 
earning his spot in qualifying, he 
didn’t depend on me to pick him, 
and that’s really, really impor-
tant to me and . . . that helps him build his confidence.”
Sophomore Ryan Celano and 
freshman Gordon Neale round 
out the starting lineup and will 
play the four and five slots. 
After a disappointing seventh 
place finish in the Fall season’s 
opening tournament, coach Dea-
con stressed the need to improve on putting. 
In an effort to get them out of 
their comfort zone, Deacon took 
his players to The Golden Ocala 
Golf and Equestrian Club, where the Gators practiced putting on unfamiliar greens. 
Although none of the starters 
have played at the Golf Club of Tennessee, Deacon is confident that the course will complement Florida’s play style.
“It (has) wider fairways and 
it’s longer and it fits right in with...the skill set that the guys on our team, that we’re taking, 
have,” Deacon said.
“Not to put any pressure on 
the guys, but I think it’s a course 
that matches up well with us and we should have a good chance to 
be very competitive.”UF counting on freshmen to lead 
GATORS IN THE NFL
Matt Jones scores two touchdowns; Jenkins leads Miami“He’s so poised. He’s so 
confident and calm. He doesn’t 
panic. He knows exactly what 
he’s doing. ... He’s going to be 
a real on-course leader for us 
this year.”
JC Deacon
UF men’s golf coachoffensive line stutters like it has 
throughout the season. But that’s where the good news ends. The 
Volunteers are ranked 12th in the 
14-team SEC in scoring defense (23.7 points/game), pass defense (236.7 yards/game) and total de-
fense (394.7 yards/game). 
They are also without star line-
backer Curt Maggitt, a fifth-year se-
nior who is out for the next month with a hip injury.
Special Teams:
If there’s one spot of consisten-
cy for the Volunteers, it’s the play of their special teams. 
Tennessee has made the return 
game an offensive play, pacing the SEC with 39.3 yards per kick-off return and ranking second in 
the conference with 19.9 yards per 
punt return. Punter Trevor Dan-iel is fourth in the country with a 47.6-yard punting average and has already pinned half of his 16 punts 
inside the 20-yard line.
Player to watch:  Running 
back Alvin Kamara.
While Hurd will receive the bulk 
of the carries on Saturday, Kamara 
has quickly made a name for him-
self this season. The sophomore 
tailback is averaging 7.5 yards per carry this season, the fourth-best average in the SEC and 13th-best in 
the country among running backs 
with at least 25 carries.
23rd in the nation.
He’s even drawn comparisons to an NFL 
Pro Bowler from his teammate and fellow wide receiver Ahmad Fulwood.
“I tell him all the time he reminds me of 
Antonio Brown,” Fulwood said. “He won’t jump out of the gym (and) blow by you with 
speed but the guy knows how to play foot-
ball. He’ll do things you’ve never seen be-fore. He’s a great player and will have a great career.”
Combine his work ethic on the practice 
field with his attention to detail and ability to fix his mistakes, and it’s no surprise that he’s quickly become one of McElwain’s favorites. Florida’s first-year coach sees the sky as the 
limit for Callaway.
“You can see his study. When you’re in 
practice, he doesn’t take a play off,” McEl-
wain observed. “He’s going to make a mis-
take here and there in practice but he wants 
to correct it. It’s important to him.” 
“And this team’s important to him. Yeah, 
I kinda like No. 81.”WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Antonio Callaway walks off the field during Florida's 31-24 win against East Carolina on Sept. 12 at Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium. 
AP Photo
T ennessee head coach Butch Jones yells to his players during warmups before the Volunteers' 55-10 win on Saturday. 
FOOTBALL,  from pg 13McElwain: 
Yeah, I kinda 
like No. 81NOTEBOOK,  from pg 13UF has won 10 in a row against UTWOMEN'S GOLF
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
With only seven holes left in 
the Mercedes-Benz Collegiate 
Championships, freshman Sam Wagner was on track to take first place in just the second tourna-
ment of her college golf career. 
But the freshman will have to 
wait a little longer for her first win, 
as she bogeyed four of those sev-en final holes and subsequently dropped to third place. 
Although Wagner may be 
frustrated with her finish at the Cherokee Golf Club in Knoxville, 
Tennessee, her 3-under final score 
marks an impressive improve-ment over her last outing at the Cougar Classic. 
“Last week I struggled a lot, I 
finished 35th — which is alright, but definitely not how I wanted to play,” Wagner said in a release. “This week was a lot better. I’ve 
just got to keep improving, and 
working on getting better every day.”
Head coach Emily Glaser 
praised Wagner for her ability to learn from mistakes, an important tool in any player’s golf bag. 
“The best players I’ve been 
around still make mistakes, but 
the difference is they are quick 
learners. I would put Sam in that category,” Glaser said in a release. 
As a whole, the No. 22 Gators 
placed fifth at 21-over par.UF will have to work on fin-
ishing strong. For four of the five players for Florida in the tourna-ment, their last round was their worst. 
“We struggled a bit today, and 
it wasn’t the way we wanted to 
finish,” Glaser said.
“You had to have a good game 
plan for this golf course, and stick 
to it no matter the circumstances. We didn’t do that very well, and 
it’s a lesson learned for our team.”
Kent State 
took first place, finishing at 5-under, fol-
lowed by No. 9 Tennessee (+4), Iowa 
State (+5), and Ohio State (+16). 
After both finished at 6-under, 
Kent State’s Taylor Kim defeated 
NC State’s India Clyburn in a play-
off to snag the individual win. 
But despite falling short on 
Tuesday, Glaser was pleased to see promise in her younger play-ers.
“It says a lot about our team 
that we have a sophomore and freshman in contention in the first 
two events of the season,” Glaser 
said. 
“I’m really excited about this 
team, and our potential. With a commitment to getting better ev-ery day, we will accomplish great things.”Freshman finishes 3rd 
in Tennessee tourney
Wagner
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015
