INSIDE
Throughout his career, Will Grier has only cared about one thing: winning.  
ONLINE
For updates on Saturday’s game between Florida and T ennessee, stay 
tuned to alligator.org/sports
UNSELFISHday, said not once has he ever heard Will men-
tion that he’s competing with Harris.
“He’s never talked to me about Will versus 
Treon,” his father said. “All he’s ever talked to me about is Will versus Will.”
      
Now, three games into the season, it truly is 
Will versus Will.
With Harris suspended for Saturday’s game 
against the Volunteers, the redshirt freshman has nothing to stand in his way but himself.
But for him, that isn’t much of a change.“I try my best to make sure these guys know 
that I’m trying to be perfect,” Will said at media 
day.
He does so daily, competing with no one oth-
er than a ﬂ  awless version of himself.
“Cam, let’s be perfect today,” offensive line-
man Cam Dillard recalls Will saying at the be-
ginning of each practice. “Let’s get good snaps, everybody run their routes perfectly, everybody block perfect and we can do good things.”
That’s how Will leads. He doesn’t like to say 
something if he can do it instead.
It’s what his father calls a “servant-leader,” 
someone who will get in the trenches with his troops to ﬁ  nd a way to win.
“It’s something that you live day in and day 
out,” Will said. “Leadership’s sort of a lifestyle. You lead by example every day in who you are.”
Just like Will carrying the ball again and 
again against Kentucky, ﬁ  ghting for extra yards 
while being banged up progressively more from 
each hit he took en route to a 14-9 victory.
“You got the guy who’s leading the offense 
selling out, ﬁ  ghting off tackles, getting hit and you could tell he was hurting,” tight end Jake McGee said that night after the game. “It’s some-thing that gives you that extra motivation to keep going and do as much as you can to keep him from getting hit more.”
Much has been made about what type of 
quarterback ﬁ  ts new head coach Jim McElwain’s system. A large portion of people agree that the 
former coordinator who coached Greg McElroy 
and A.J. McCarron at Alabama prefers a taller, pocket-passer. And with that, they believe Will is the right ﬁ  t given his skill set.
But McElwain insists the only characteristic 
he needs in a quarterback is “being a winner.”If that’s the case, maybe Will is the perfect ﬁ  t 
for McElwain.
Through his entire life, being a winner is all 
Will has ever known. And within the conﬁ  nes of the game, it’s all that matters to him.By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
On Aug. 5, Will Grier walked into the Touch-
down Terrace portion of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadi-um carrying extra weight.
It was the team’s ofﬁ  cial media day, and 
reporters from across the state had gathered 
around the table with Will’s paper nameplate 
sitting on top of it to ask him an assortment of questions before the start of the season.
After a slightly heavier version of the redshirt 
freshman strolled in and sat down, someone in-quired about his weight gain.
“After I hurt my back I dropped down to 
about 200, 205,” Will said. “Stayed around there for a while, then I was able to get up to 215. So 
about 15 pounds since I hurt my back.”
Maybe he gained it by eating more during 
the summer. Maybe the new strength and con-
ditioning staff’s offseason program had paid off.
Or maybe, he was burdened with the weight 
of the questions to follow.
What has the quarterback competition been 
like?
Are you ready to win the starting job?
Does this offense ﬁ  t you best?
Compared to answering those questions, 
facing a Southeastern Conference defense was easy.
For a humble 20-year-old from Davidson, 
North Carolina, discussing his chances of beat-
ing Treon Harris, a friend and teammate, for the 
starting position was one of the last things he wanted to do. 
Will doesn’t even like to give rah-rah speech-
es on the ﬁ  eld or in the locker room. Boasting about himself certainly isn’t part of his M.O.
To make matters more uncomfortable, Harris 
was sitting right next to him, well within ear-shot, answering the same questions.
So, the redshirt freshman gave a seemingly 
generic answer. 
“My main focus is just doing anything I can 
to help this team win,” he said.
In his case, though, he meant every word.He grew up with that mentality.He came to Florida with that mentality.And as he prepares to face Tennessee on Sat-
urday with the chance to seize the starting quar-
terback position for good, he has continued to 
use that mentality to stay humble, block out the noise and focus on what he can control — doing whatever he can to help his team win.
      
Will grew up playing ball — any kind of ball. Football, basketball, baseball, even some 
soccer. You name it, he played it.
And he dominated.“He would dunk any which way on anybody 
(in basketball),” his father, Chad Grier, said. “Baseball, in his junior year he led the whole area … in home runs. They put those BBCOR bats in there the next year and he led the whole 
area in batting average.”
Being the star of the show was never part of 
his motivation, though.
“A lot of kids score or hit a home run and 
jump up and down or pump their ﬁ  st,” his father 
said. “I never saw (Will) do it. He would just sprint back to go play the next play or get down the court to play defense. He was just focused.”
Will wasn’t worried about his own acco-
lades, either.
As a 5-year-old playing soccer, he had com-
plete athletic superiority in his games, emerging from the scrum of tiny, uncoordinated legs with the ball and scoring at will.
At one point, one of his coaches told Will he 
was hogging the ball and that he should let some of the kids score once in awhile. 
So, for the rest of the game, he did the same 
thing as before, stealing the ball from the mas-sive pile up and running down toward the goal. But when he got there, he would stop, wait for one of his teammates to catch up, pass him the ball and let him score.
Then, while the celebration ensued, he 
would immediately sprint back to midﬁ  eld to be ready for the next play.
“He has that quality about him,” his father 
said. “Unselﬁ  sh.”
But for all his success in other sports, nothing 
came close to football.
Even as a little kid, Will was always around 
the sport. During the summer, he would tag along at football camps that his father — a 
former quarterback at East Carolina — would 
coach at to watch the older high schoolers play, many of whom were college prospects. 
One year, when Will was 10 or 11, one of the 
high school players asked him if he wanted to take a rep at quarterback. Without blinking, Will got in the huddle, called a play, got up under center and threw a strike to his receiver.
“Everyone kinda went crazy,” his father said. 
“I thought, ‘Man, that’s nuts.’”
By the time Will was in high school, amazing 
moments had become the norm.
In his career at Davidson Day, Will threw 
for 14,565 yards — second only to former Gator Chris Leak in North Carolina history — and a state-record 195 touchdown passes.
In one game alone during his junior sea-son, he threw for a national-record 837 yards — breaking Leak’s state record of 585 yards by more than 250 — along with 10 touchdowns.
He could have had even more performances 
like that at Davidson Day, but the team was nor-mally up by so much at halftime that Will rarely played in second halves.
But it didn’t bother Will. The only stat that 
mattered was the number in the wins column.
“He never one time asked me, ‘Hey, how 
many yards did I get? What are my stats?’” his father said, who also happened to be his coach at Davidson Day. “He just never cared. All he cared about was winning.”
      
Will had an abundance of options when it 
came time to decide where to go for college.
SEC schools like Arkansas, Auburn, and Ten-
nessee all came calling, along with local pro-grams like North Carolina and Wake Forest.
But after a trip to Florida and getting to know 
former coach Will Muschamp and former of-fensive coordinator Brent Pease, Will felt like Gainesville was the right ﬁ  t, despite the negative recruiting strategies other schools employed.
With the stigma of Muschamp’s conserva-
tive offensive approach hovering over the pro-gram, other coaches attempted to tell Will that he wouldn’t get the opportunity to throw under 
Muschamp. Instead, he would be left to simply 
hand the ball off and let the defense win games.
But that didn’t dissuade Will.“I don’t care if I throw it every play of the 
game or hand it off every play of the game,” he would respond when he was presented with that argument. “I just wanna win. Muschamp said he could win championships with me, and I believe it.”
Will and his family were thrown for a loop, 
though, when Florida also signed Harris, a highly touted prospect in the same class out of Booker T. Washington.
“We were a little surprised, frankly, when 
they signed Treon,” Will’s father said, explain-ing it’s unusual to have to compete with some-one who comes in at the same time as you.
“But (Will and Treon) can’t control that.”
So, although not the ideal situation, Will 
chose not to worry about it. From his ﬁ  rst day on 
campus, his year spent on the bench redshirting 
all the way through the beginning of this year, 
the only say he’s had in the matter is what he could do to better himself and the team.
“That’s out of my control,” Will said about 
the quarterback situation during the middle of Fall camp. “That’s not my decision. … What-ever is decided and however they want to do it, we’re going to continue to do the best we can to make this team better.”
His father, who talks with Will almost every KICK OFF
Editor Graham Hall   Photos for Cover Illustration Emily Cochrane
Alligator, Friday, September 25, 2015
FLORIDA offense vs. TENNESSEE defense FLORIDA defense vs. TENNESSEE offense
Coleman ThomasCJoshua DobbsQBJalen HurdRB
Quincy 
WilsonCB
Vernon
Hargreaves IIICB
Jonathan
BullardDE
Joey 
IvieDT
Antonio
MorrisonMIKE
Jarrad
DavisWILL
Bryan 
Cox Jr.RUSH
Marcus
MayeS
Keanu 
NealSDylan
WiesmanRGBrett
KendrickRTEthan
WolfTE
Jashon
RobertsonLGKyler 
KerbysonLTMarquez
NorthWR
Cam DillardC
 Will GrierQB
Kevin T aylorRBDavid
SharpeLT Trip
ThurmanLG
Antionio
CallawayWR
Antonio
RilesRG
Mason
HalterRT
Jake
McGeeTEAhmad
FulwoodWR
Brandon 
PowellWRWill
JumperMIKE
Kendal
VickersNT
Derek
BarnettDEEmmanuel
MoseleyCB
Cameron
SuttonCBJalen
Reeves-MaybinWILL
Chris
WeatherdSAMT odd
Kelly Jr.S
Brian
RandolphS
Corey
VereenDEJosh
MaloneWR
Jauan 
JenningsWR
Caleb
BrantleyDT
Brian 
PooleCBOwen
WilliamsDTOUTINJURY
REPORT
LB Alex Anzalone (Shoulder)
DOUBTFUL
LB Jeremi Powell (Leg)
TE C’yontai Lewis (Hand)DB Kylan Johnson (Ankle)
PROBABLE
DL Alex McCalister (Shoulder)
OUT
INJURY
REPORT
LB Curt Maggitt (Hip)
PROBABLE
OL Jashon Robertson (Ankle)DB Max Arnold (Knee)SUSPENDED
QB Treon HarrisCB Jalen T abor
QUESTIONABLE
WR Alton “Pig” Howard (Ankle)
ABOVE:
UF quarterback Will Grier runs out of the tunnel at Commonwealth Stadium prior to Florida’s 14-9 win against Kentucky on Sept. 19.
LEFT:
Will Grier drops back to pass during Florida’s 14-9 win against Kentucky at Commonwealth Stadium in Lexington, Kentucky. 
Photos by Emily Cochrane / Alligator StaffA Winner’s Mentality
Grier focused on leading UFWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 24 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015
Florida volleyball set for SEC play
The Gators went undefeated in the conference 
last season, pg. 13
Researcher discusses marijuana
T eaches effects on youth development, pg. 3
IFAS celebrates its 100th birthday
Alumni reﬂ  ect on achievements, pg. 8Peace, love and Om
UF practices meditation, pg. 5
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
In 1968, Hilary Sessions had a 
baby.
It was a child she fought for after 
family urged her to have an abortion, 
a child whose handprint she took in 
plaster when Tiffany was just 4 years 
old.
In 1989, Hilary Sessions lost her 
baby.
On an evening walk, the UF stu-
dent disappeared, the plaster hand-print a tangible reminder of a body that was never found. 
Three years ago, Sessions drove 
from Tampa to Alachua County fo-rensics to deliver the handprint. From the plaster, they lifted a single ﬁ  ngerprint.
It was one more piece of evi-
dence for ﬁ  nding Tiffany and solv-ing her mystery, one of 27 cold cases that still linger in Alachua County. Last month, the Florida Sheriff’s Association formed a committee to give greater attention to cold cases throughout Florida, a committee that 
Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell 
helps lead.
“I know that my little girl will not 
be walking through the front door,” Sessions said. “But there’s still hope for me to be able to give her a fu-neral.”
      
On top of a shelf in Darnell’s of-
ﬁ  ce, there is a picture of two ﬁ  nger-prints.
The left print is clean, a stark 
impression made in a Alachua jail in 1977 after a burglary arrest. The right print is blotchy, a blurry im-print from cardboard in a Gainesville shed in 1995 after a sexual assault.Both ﬁ  ngerprints belong to John 
Alexander Scieszka, a man with striking blue eyes who often wore a bandana over the lower part of his face when he committed crime. 
After local authorities matched 
the description of the rapist to the burglar, they used the Federal Bu-reau of Investigation’s Combined DNA Index System — referred to as CODIS — to link Scieszka to about 
30 rapes between Gainesville and 
Georgia, Darnell said.
CODIS links DNA evidence and 
ﬁ  ngerprints from agencies across the country, and Scieszka’s case was the nation’s ﬁ  rst match between two states. The ﬁ  ngerprints on the shelf help preserve both memory and mo-tivation.
“It’s a reminder — constantly —
that most cases can be solved,” she 
said.
Darnell, a vice-chair on the Cold 
Case Advisory Committee, said the 
goal is to help large agencies that have too many cases and small agen-cies with too little resources.
“This is purposeful work, and it’s 
hard to remember that sometimes with all the negative feedback we 
that get,” she said.
Detectives from around the state 
will present cases during a com-
mittee meeting next month, where members will review evidence and make suggestions. 
Working in the present and plan-
ning for the future shouldn’t stop law enforcement from solving past 
cases, Darnell said.
“Loved ones and friends of some-
one who’s been murdered or re-
mains missing — they never forget, nor should we,” she said.  
Any combination of crimes, such 
as rape and homicide, Darnell said, could be connected to the same per-son across the country.
In Florida, the focus recently 
became cases involving sexual as-sault after Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi began pushing a bill two weeks ago that would fund Florida Department of Law Enforcement testing of possibly thousands of rape kits sitting on shelves around the state.
The Alachua Sheriff’s Depart-
ment started sending all rape kits to the Florida Department of Law En-forcement for testing in 2014, said ‘There’s still hope’
Cold cases resurface in sherif’s oice  
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
UF President Kent Fuchs delivered his ﬁ  rst 
Fall State of the University address Thursday.
As he stood at the front of the stage of the 
Reitz Union Auditorium, Fuchs spoke to ad-
ministrators and faculty about increasing di-versity on campus, growing UF’s research and scholarship funds and expanding UF’s reach 
across the globe.
“UF has incredible strength and momen-
tum,” he said.  
He highlighted UF’s accomplishments in 
the past year, including receiving a record about $707 million in research funding, com-
pleting construction on six major facilities and hiring new faculty under the preeminence ini-tiative, which recruits esteemed professors in their ﬁ  elds of study.
“I have indeed seen preeminence,” he said.Fuchs expressed concern over UF’s reach 
beyond Florida, citing that only 7 percent of undergraduates come from out of state and 1 percent of undergraduates are international students.He said his goal-setting task force will cre-
ate a report detailing its plans to make UF a top-tier university. The plan will be ﬁ  nalized in December.
UF Vice President and Chief Financial Ofﬁ  -
cer Mike McKee said Fuchs was as sincere and honest during his address as he is in private meetings.
“What I think the people saw there was 
genuine Kent Fuchs,” he said.  
Fuchs said UF has an opportunity to con-
tribute to society in greater ways and affect not just Florida’s future, but the entire world’s.
“I thank you for joining me in seizing that 
opportunity,” he said.Fuchs looks to increase diversity, researchEmily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Art Forgey, the spokesman for the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce, goes through a sample sexual-assault-
evidence kit in his ofﬁ  ce on Sept. 16. ACSO is looking to use DNA from rape kits and other cases to solve cold cases. “Twenty years from now, who knows what we’ll be able to do, ” he said.
SEE COLD CASE,  PAGE 4
KENT FUCHS
UF President“What I think the people saw there was 
genuine Kent Fuchs.”
Mike McKee
UF Vice President and CFOSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING
GatorNights
What happens at the Reitz stays 
at the Reitz during GatorNights: 
Casino Night tonight from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature ca-
sino games with prizes, an oxy-
gen bar and massage therapists. 
GatorNights will also be hosting the movie “Magic Mike XXL” at 8 
p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz 
Union Auditorium. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Gay Movie Night
“Tiger Orange” will be shown tonight at 7:30 p.m. at Pride 
Community Center, located at 
3131 NW 13th St. Gay Movie 
Night is a free service of the Pride 
Community Center. A $2 dona-tion is requested to help cover 
cost of snacks.
Friday Program at Krishna House
Come and attend this week’s 
Friday Program at Krishna 
House to learn about “Stress 
Management through Bhagavad-
Gita.” The program starts at 7 p.m. at Krishna House, 214 NW 14th St., with Mantra Meditation followed by Ice Breaker Session 
and Talk on the Topic. Dinner 
will be served at 8:15 p.m.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
afigueroa@alligator.org. Please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Keep submissions to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 24
HIGH  88° LOW  70°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Eva Sailly,  Makayla Thomas,    
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
SHE ANSWERED QUESTIONS 
FROM THE AUDIENCE.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Temple Grandin thinks in shapes. But she 
doesn’t like being put in a box.
As far as she’s concerned, autism led to 
the iPhone, and most of Silicon Valley can be 
found on the autism spectrum beside her.
On Thursday night at the Phillips Center 
for the Performing Arts, Grandin told a crowd of 1,185 people the story of her rise to promi-
nence as both a farm-animal specialist and an 
autism awareness activist.
“My own father wanted to put me in an 
institution,” the 68-year-old said of her diag-nosis.
Grandin spoke of the different ways in 
which people’s minds work and how she was upset with the current education system, which she said tends to label students.
She showed the crowd scanned images of 
her own brain and then hand-drawn designs of cattle corrals, which earned her widespread recognition in the livestock industry.UF occupational therapy graduate student 
Erika Unger said she found Grandin inspiring.
“Just because you may think differently, 
doesn’t mean you’re not gonna be able to ac-complish anything in your life,” the 23-year-old said.
Matt Hersom, an associate professor in the 
UF Department of Animal Sciences, ﬁ  rst heard of Grandin when he was an undergraduate at Iowa State University.
He said his 14-year-old son has Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy. Hersom said it is critical for students to be exposed to a wide range of role models, not just the standard ones.
“It’s important for all of our students to get 
exposure to different ideas and different phi-losophies,” he said.
By the end of the hourlong event, Gran-
din opened the ﬂ  oor to the audience, ﬁ  eld-
ing questions from parents and students. She 
signed copies of her books in the Phillips Cen-ter foyer afterward.
Stephanie Reisberg, 25, waited in line to 
get a signed copy of “The Way I See It.”
The pediatric occupational therapist said 
she works with children with autism.
“I’ve been looking forward to this for a 
long time,” she said.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
600 NW 5th Ave
Gainesville
FL 32601
(352) 
384-1008Fades and FrosAndrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff 
Farm-animal behaviorist and autism advocate T emple Grandin shares her insight on 
success at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Thursday. 
Autism advocate and farm-animal specialist speaks at UF 
CAMPUS
By Gabrielle Newman
Alligator Contributing Writer
A renowned researcher pre-
sented ﬁ  ndings on the effects of 
marijuana on youth development to the UF community Thursday night.
In honor of National Recov-
ery Month, prominent researcher Dr. Maureen Boyle presented to a crowd of 40 people various re-search ﬁ  ndings of marijuana used among young people via live stream video.
UF is one of several schools that live streamed Boyle from the National Institute on Drug Abuse. The livestream was part of the sec-
ond national Our Community, Our 
Health event put on by Health-Street, a community engagement program that bridges the gap be-tween health research and com-munity knowledge.
“What we’re doing with Our 
Community, Our Health is re-ally holding a series of meetings 
where we can explain directly to 
the community what people ﬁ  nd when they do research,”  Health-Street founding director Linda Cottler said. “And we want to do it according to the things that are important to them.”
Boyle focused on how mari-
juana use leads to detrimental side effects on a developing brain. Dai-ly use as an adolescent increases likelihood of substance abuse, sui-cide attempts and use of welfare, Boyle said. There will be a 10-year longitudinal study on adolescent 
individuals to answer questions 
their current data does not reveal.
The event included dramatic 
storytelling from UF’s Arts in Medicine program. The stories showed the different stages of drug addiction to engage the au-dience through theater, said Erick Edwing, HealthStreet’s commu-
nications coordinator specialist. 
After Boyle’s presentation, text messages and Twitter were used to facilitate discussion while Boyle answered the questions live.
Due to HealthStreet’s connec-
tion with the National Institute on 
Drug Abuse, Boyle shared her re-
search without any compensation, HealthStreet project coordinator Vicki Piazza said.
“I learned stuff I didn’t know, 
so it was a good way to keep up with the literature,” said Mirsada Serdarevic, a 24-year-old ﬁ  rst-year doctoral student in epidemiology. 
“It was very interactive, and they 
didn’t make it as technical so they, ya know, catered to the greater au-dience.”
Researcher discusses marijuana eﬀ  ects on youth development
“I learned stuf I didn’t know, 
so it was a good way to keep 
up with the literature.”
Mirsada Serdarevic
UF epidemiology 
doctoral student4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015
CAMPUS
By Jordan McPherson 
and Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writers
jmcpherson@alligator.org, 
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Former UF football player Thaddeus Bull-
ard will be sending a message to The Swamp 
via video during Florida’s home game against Tennessee on Saturday.
Bullard, also known as World Wrestling 
Entertainment wrestler Titus O’Neil, is asking Gator fans to log a combined 3,000 volunteer hours as part of UF’s For The Gator Good cam-paign.
“I feel like that’s not a whole lot to ask of a fan base and an alumni base as large as the University of Florida’s,” said Bullard, who col-laborated with UF to set up the announcement.
Bullard, who was a defensive lineman at 
UF from 1996 to 2000, said community service became a vital part of his life when he was a junior in high school, when scholarship offers and opportunities to advance his life started coming around.
“I started reaping the rewards of people 
who were investing in me when they had nothing to gain in return,” the 38-year-old said.
UF launched the Gator Good campaign in 
September 2014 with the goal of showing how UF students, faculty and alumni are impacting their community.The campaign’s website has 10 categories 
people can submit their stories to, including poverty and hunger, human rights and mental 
health, among others.
Warren Buck, the prin-
cipal of KIPP charter school in Jacksonville, posted to 
Gator Good about how he is working to get under-served middle-schoolers “Gator Ready.”
The UF alumnus said he 
uses social media platforms 
to inform others about KIPP and its goals for its students, he said.
“If you are ‘Gator Ready’ at our school, any school you want to go to will be open,” Buck said.
UF spokesman Steve Orlando said the Gator 
Good campaign has received noticeable trac-tion since launching last year.
But Orlando said Bullard’s proclamation 
adds an extra dimension to the commercials and billboards that have been promoting the campaign.
“It’s a call to action,” Orlando said.If the 3,000-hour goal is reached, Bullard 
said he would make a pledge of his own, one 
he said he does not want to reveal until the 
target is hit.
“That’s a-wait-and-see,” Bullard said, “but 
it’ll be something pretty special.”
Tennessee not the only volunteers, alumnus gives challenge
Art Forgey, the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokesman.
“We have zero backlog of them; 
however, it is a national problem,” he said.
Even if a victim doesn’t want to 
prosecute for rape, DNA could still link the crime to other offenses by 
the same person — including offend-
ers in cold cases.
Using the William’s Rule, a case-
law precedent established in the 1950’s, prosecutors could strengthen their case against an offender by 
presenting the evidence in a trial for 
separate crimes, Darnell said. 
“We may hold the DNA that 
solves several cases,” Forgey said.
      
There are more than 66,000 
pieces of evidence in the Sheriff’s evidence room, according to Glynda Saavedra, the supervisor of evidence at the Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
ﬁ  ce. All the way in the back — af-
ter walls of guns, baseball bats and desktop computers — is where Detective Kevin Allen draws from boxes marked with numbers and pictures for each victim.
“The likelihood of success is ex-
tremely slim, but you have to know we’re going to try,” he said.
Two years ago, he left 24 years 
with the police department in Fort Lauderdale for a fresh start with cold cases, hired speciﬁ  cally to resurrect new leads in cases that go cold after all witnesses and evidence collec-
tions are investigated.
The wall of his ofﬁ  ce lists the 
names of victims and suspects, and 
binders full of case notes as wide as his hands line the shelves. 
The ofﬁ  ce uses pictures to re-
member who they’re ﬁ  ghting for.
When the witnesses and report-
ers are gone, Allen and the victims’ 
families are sometimes all that re-
main.
“They’re always so grateful, and 
I say, ‘Are you kidding me?’” Allen said. “This is my privilege — I’m not the victim here.”
He calls Tiffany’s mom “sis” in 
daily email conversations, and she calls him “bro.”  
“When Kevin came on, it was 
like the door opened and the light shone in,” Sessions said.
Darnell refers to Allen as the cold 
case rock star.
“He is doing something every sin-
gle day to solve a case,” Darnell said.
Funding remains one of Allen’s 
biggest obstacles, despite the techno-
logical advances. 
A Solving Cold Cases with DNA 
Analysis grant awarded the Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce more than $151,000 in 2010, but that money has since run out and the ofﬁ  ce pays directly for pri-vate lab testing, Allen said.
He said processing a single 
piece of evidence usually costs at 
least $1,000, and each case aver-
ages $20,000 to investigate. With the FDLE backed up with cases, Allen said his cold cases, which date back anywhere between 1966 and 2007, don’t get top priority. 
But, with the DNA he already 
has, Allen is one step closer to solv-ing the cold cases he has.
      
Twenty-six years after her daugh-
ter’s disappearance, Sessions, now 70, hasn’t given up.
She said DNA was too expensive 
and time consuming at ﬁ  rst, but now 
a microscopic sample can be repli-
cated and studied.
“I had to wait for technology to 
get caught up to what we needed to do.”
In addition to the FDLE, other 
avenues provide services and hope, such as the National Missing and Unidentiﬁ  ed Persons System.
Parents submit their DNA into 
the system in hopes of matching with their loved ones’ remains, and 
it compares new and current sam-
ples every night, Sessions said.
“There are 34,000 (unidentiﬁ  ed 
remains), and one of those 34,000 may be my little girl,” she said.
Sessions said she will stay hope-
ful that new resources and organi-zations will lead to the close of her daughter’s case and many others’.
For now, she embraces her evo-
lution from a victim to a survivor, making speeches across the coun-try and pushing for laws that keep America’s children safer.
And without fail, Allen will say 
how his “sis” knows how to take lemons and make lemonade.
“And I say, ‘Kevin, that’s what 
life is all about,’” Sessions said.COLD CASE,  from pg1DNA could put cold cases to rest
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Boxes of evidence sit in an evidence room in the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce.
Bullard
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
819 W. University Ave
352-872-5655
PROFESSIONAL  
BODY  
MODIFICATIONS,
TATTOO,  &
PIERCING
SERVICES
 By Raina Barnett
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 60 people sat in a semi-
circle in silence.
On Thursday afternoon, UF 
Mindfulness hosted its ﬁ  rst UF 
“MedMob,” a mass meditation 
movement.
“The idea is a peaceful mind, a 
mindful mind,” said Monika Ardelt, 
UF sociology professor and one of the event’s volunteers. “It’s to take some time off from our busy, dis-tracted, overloaded life during the day and just be.”
As the event started, she stood 
outside and greeted people, wel-coming passersby into Library East.  
The goal of the event was for a 
group of students, faculty and com-munity members to start meditat-ing, sparking others’ interest, Ar-delt said.
Some sat cross-legged on yoga 
mats and towels. Others sat with 
their legs folded underneath them 
on pillows. Everyone closed their eyes and practiced breathing.
UF soil and water science mas-
ter’s student Toshi Mizuta said he 
attended the event to relax.  As an 
international student, he said he’s stressed adapting to American cul-ture. 
The meditation mob was an op-
portunity to take a break.
“Our adviser introduced us to 
the opportunity for the people to calm down themselves and relax,” the 25-year-old said.
Ardelt said the purpose of the 
event was to make people appreci-ate the present moment.
“The spirit of the MedMob is 
really that people come together,” she said, sort of like a ﬂ  ash mob. 
On Monday, the group will hold 
UF Mindfulness Day, starting at 8:20 a.m. Peace, love and Om
“The spirit of the MedMob 
is really that people come 
together.” 
Monika Ardelt
UF sociology professor
ABOVE:
Nancy Lasseter (left), a UF 
Health wellness educator, wel-comes meditators to MedMob on Thursday. People continued arriving throughout the hour. About 60 came all together.
LEFT:
Oliver Norden, an artist in resi-dence at the Zen Hostel, medi-tates in Smathers Library be-fore MedMob. He played the gong with multiple mallets for the last 15 minutes of the hour-long meditation session, ﬁ  lling the room with an ethereal ring-ing tone.
RIGHT:
Lauren Schinnow, an 18-year-old Santa Fe College engineer-ing freshman, meditates in Smathers Library before Med-Mob. “I think the energy level will be higher with so many people doing it together at the same time, ” said Schinnow, who also said she’d meditated before by herself. 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialColumn
IS: Terrorism in the Digital Era is cause for concern
The Islamic State group, or IS (ISIS) is a 
name that has seldom been far from news headlines over past two years. After estab-
lishing a religious caliphate in swathes of 
Syria and Iraq, the radical Islamist group 
has gained global attention for the violent rule it has imposed in these regions. While the Islamic 
State group’s physical control may be confined to 
the territories it has claimed, its sphere of influence extends far beyond. The Islamic State group has successfully used the Internet and social media to spread both fear and its ideals, making it a uniquely digital 
terrorist organization.
The Islamic State group has utilized the Internet to culti-
vate fear by releasing execution footage online. One example 
is the beheading of American journalist James Foley, during 
which he read the scripted message that his “real killer” was 
America. Another is the video of Jordanian pilot Muath al-Kassasbeh being burned to death while inside a cage.
Terrorist groups such as al-Qaida have been known to 
stage public executions, but the Islamic State group is the first 
to film these executions in an almost cinematic quality. With 
the use of clear sound and theatrical image resolution, Islamic State group members capture the agony of its victims in inti-mate, graphic detail. Unlike infiltrating a country’s borders to 
wage a full-blown attack, the Islamic State group’s methods 
of spreading terror to the rest of the world have been done re-motely through the use of digital technology and the Internet.
These methods are also in line with the group’s goals as 
an organization. Unlike al-Qaida, the Islamic State group is 
much more preoccupied with the establishment of a religious 
caliphate than it is with terrorizing the West. A terrorist attack on a foreign country requires time and resources the Islamic State group needs to devote to the control of its territories. In 
contrast, releasing videos online is a flexible, cost-effective 
method of disseminating fear worldwide.The Islamic State group also uses the Internet 
and social media to spread its ideology and gain recruits. With an advanced propaganda machine 
fueled by Facebook and Twitter, it has successful-
ly encouraged up to 4,000 Westerners to travel to Syria and Iraq to become new recruits, according to a report published by the Institute of Strategic 
Dialogue. 
Among these recruits were three teenage girls 
from London: Khadiza Sultana, Amira Abase and 
Shamima Begum. After engaging with Islamic 
State group recruiters via social media, the three girls boarded 
a flight to Istanbul and then crossed into Syria without their 
parents’ knowledge. This demonstrates not only the reach of ISIS’s online presence, but also its sophistication. ISIS was able to forge a personal relationship with these girls that was 
strong enough to convince them to abandon their homes and 
families to join its cause.
The Islamic State group has also been known to hijack 
trending Twitter hashtags to broaden the scope of its audi-ence. In August 2014, the hashtag #napaquake was intend-
ed to express sympathy for victims of northern California’s 
earthquakes. Islamic State group Twitter accounts added this hashtag to tweets featuring gruesome photos of dead soldiers accompanied with threats to the U.S. and President Obama.  
Similar tweets were created using hashtags related to the 
World Cup and incidents in Ferguson, Missouri.
Through violence and the espousal of ideals far removed 
from the peaceful values of Islam, the Islamic State group is undoubtedly a force to be reckoned with. The brutality and 
violence of its regime may be considered primitive, but its 
incredibly strategic use of the Internet and social media is nothing if not modern, and that should be cause enough for concern.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics senior. Her column 
appears on Fridays.Although no one currently on the Alligator staff was in col-
lege in 2011, we feel confident in assuming that at some point in the year, a joke was made at the expense of “Friday” by Rebecca Black to introduce that week’s edition of Darts & Lau-rels. Although we would not stoop to such comedic lows, that 
isn’t going to stop us from using this information as an incred-
ibly strained way to introduce this week’s edition of… 
Darts & Laurels
On Sept. 18, news broke that since 2009, German car man-
ufacturer Volkswagen has been installing software in many of its vehicles that manipulates a car’s pollution control. What this 
means is that a car’s pollution control function would only work 
when being tested to make sure it was meeting environmental standards; otherwise, the cars — which were “clean diesel” and supposed to be less harmful to the environment — have been 
spewing and polluting with the best of ‘em. In the immortal 
words of Jordan Peele, what will you think of next, Germany?
In just a few days, Volkswagen has managed to alienate its 
considerable consumer base, break several laws in several coun-tries and lose its CEO.  For so brazenly manipulating the system, 
Volkswagen gets a smoggy, climate change-inducing DART.
Martin Shkreli is the CEO who raised the price of life-saving 
drug Daraprim from an affordable $13.50 to an obscene $750 per 
pill. We don’t have to explain this one. DART.
Pope Francis — the most charming, humanist pope the mod-
ern world has ever seen or evil, liberal monster destroying the Catholic church from within? Whatever you think of him, there is no question his recent trip to the U.S. is a historic one, having been only the fourth pope to swing by the U.S.
While here, the pope discussed climate change, immigration 
reform and economic responsibility, irking many Republicans who otherwise use religion to champion their own selfish causes. Showing his bottomless reservoir of humility truly shows no signs 
of running dry, the pope rejected dining with Congress after his 
address Thursday to eat with the homeless of Washington D.C.
Despite our glowing admiration for the man, the pope, as we 
imagine he’d be the first to admit, isn’t perfect. His canoniza-tion of controversial missionary Junipero Serra is questionable 
to say the least. But for championing the downtrodden, directly 
confronting the largest existential crisis facing mankind today and being so damn affable, Pope Francis gets a zucchetto-clad Laurel.
After years of fictional characters singing odd iterations of the 
classic song “Happy Birthday To You,” creators can now use the song without fear of having to pay absurd royalties to Warner Music Group. On Tuesday, a federal judge in Los Angeles ruled that WMG’s claim to the rights is not valid. We award a birthday 
candle-adorned Laurel to the judge for putting an end to a long 
national nightmare for the pop culture obsessives who enjoy real-ism in their fiction.
Taco Bell has started serving booze at some of its locations, 
rechristening them as Taco Bell Cantinas. While we’d like to give Taco Bell a Dart for adding even more unhealthy options to a menu already riddled with them, we award the fast food giant a Laurel for giving us — its patient and adoring customers —
the opportunity to create all sorts amazing drunken memories at 
these Cantinas. BONG.
Finally, Jimmy Fallon reunited Kenan and Kel on a recreation 
of the “Good Burger” set. There are not enough Laurels in the 
world to give to everyone involved in making this impossible 
dream a reality — God bless us, every one.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Namwan
Leavell
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
I keep seeing posts or over-
hearing conversations where someone says, “I’m com-
pletely straight, but I ﬁ  nd 
girls so hot and I want to 
make out with them!” or, “I’m totally not gay, but I want to try 
giving a blowjob,” or “I swear 
I’m 100 percent homosexual, but man, do I want to have sex with someone of the opposite gender.”
The last one might be an exaggeration, 
but seriously everyone, what’s up with this school of thought?
I always laugh to myself when people 
chime in to the aforementioned inquiries 
to say the following: You’re either totally 
straight or totally gay.
So, because Wednesday was Bi Visibil-
ity Day, and because this week is Bisexual Awareness Week, let me remind you that 
there is another option.
To be more speciﬁ  c, there are endless 
options. The idea that sexuality has to be 
limited to just a heterosexual, homosexual 
or even bisexual classiﬁ  cation is ridicu-
lous. It’s OK if you feel like you don’t to-tally ﬁ  t in with one of those labels — why put a label on your sexuality anyway?
Sexuality is an individualistic thing, 
which is why I don’t run up to “totally straight” people, grab them by the shoul-ders and shake them while I say, “It’s OK to admit you may be bisexual!”
Neither I, nor anybody else, can force 
a label of sexuality upon anyone. But you should ask yourself: If I’m sexually attracted to both males and females, if I want to engage in sexual activities with 
both genders, why am I unwilling to call 
myself bisexual? Why do I insist so strong-ly that I’m totally straight?
It might be because bisexuality has 
such a stigma attached to it. Bisexual people are seen as indecisive and greedy because they aren’t picking just one side. They’re seen as more likely to cheat be-cause they’re attracted to more than one 
gender.
There’s a lot of stigma against bisex-
ual individuals in the LGBTQ+ commu-
nity as well and even among other people 
who identify as bisexual. Not everyone is 
equally attracted to ladies and gents, so those who are genuinely 50-50 might look down upon people who identify as 80-20.
Regardless of how much attraction you 
feel to each gender, your bisexuality is still just as valid.People often also assume bi-
sexuality is a phase, which is why some people who identify 
as gay or lesbian don’t want to 
date bisexual people, and why some assume once you settle down with someone, your sexu-
ality changes.
This concept seems strange 
to me. I’m bisexual, and when 
I started dating my boyfriend, I didn’t 
immediately think, “Well there you go, I 
guess I’m totally straight now! All my at-
traction to girls is gone.”
We seem to be ﬁ  xated on absolutes in 
terms of sexuality, which mirrors some 
other absolutes we believe in. Society ex-
pects you to know exactly what you want to major in, exactly what you want to do for a career, exactly who you’re attracted to and what you call your sexuality.
But we go against other absolutes 
all the time. How many times have you heard of people changing majors or friend groups?
We would never think of establishing 
absolutes for other aspects of life. For ex-ample, you’re not expected to drink only Coca-Cola or Sprite for the rest of your life 
— you can switch between the two. Why 
can’t we follow that in terms of sexual at-traction? Sexuality can be just as ﬂ  uid as our soft drinks — one night you want to drink Coke, and next week you’re in the 
mood for Sprite.
It’s OK if you don’t want to put a la-
bel on your sexuality, but you shouldn’t be afraid of referring to yourself as “bi-
sexual” if that is truly how you identify yourself. Sexuality is not binary. It’s not shameful to feel attraction to both men 
and women, just like it’s not shameful to 
like Coke and Sprite...and Dr. Pepper and Fanta. But hey, I don’t judge.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column appears on Fridays. There are no absolutes in sexuality Column
My favorite dumb hobby 
is taking pop culture way too seriously.
At first glance, it 
may seem like a use-
less thing to obsess over, but pop culture can actually tell you a lot about society in the time period that birthed it. The ways people make movies and TV shows, the ways we worship our rock stars and venerate our celebrities is like a pulse readout that also happens to be endlessly entertaining.
Judging by our current state, it seems 
like we might be headed to a bleak place if we aren’t careful. American popular cul-ture is increasingly un-self-aware, snobby and narcissistic without substance (as opposed to narcissistic with substance, which is beautiful and should be encour-aged). This increasingly vapid cultural landscape is one where 9/11 is blatantly 
exploited for Facebook likes and “irony” 
has practically become the watermark for high art. Movies are deliberately created to suit the dumbest possible audience, and everything we listen to is either a re-packaged classic from the last 50 years or was produced in a laboratory by the same handful of Swedish guys.  
Take Taylor Swift’s “1989” for ex-
ample, which heralded the return of the same unambitious, superficial culture that it took most of the ‘90s for us to es-cape from. It’s already here. Don’t be-lieve me? Watch an early episode of Sein-feld. George and Jerry don’t look out of place; rather, they look kind of hip. And it shows no signs of stopping: Last week, singer Ryan Adams covered “1989” in a 
sad, singer-songwriter fashion. It’s not 
very good.
Don’t get me wrong — so far, this 
new-‘80s thing we’ve got going on is cool. “1989” itself was good — oh God, so good — but it makes me worry about where we’re headed all the same. What chance do we stand if “like a pop album, but without any of the things that make 
pop fun or enjoyable” is a legitimate cul-
tural pursuit?
Luckily for us, there’s a glimmer of 
hope from one redeeming cultural figure, a voice crying from the Laurel Canyon.
It was two years ago that “Fear Fun” 
first appeared on my YouTube queue, sparking a long and cherished relation-ship with the music of the enigmatic, elu-
sive man known as Father John Misty.
Joshua Tillman was born into a strict 
evangelistic Christian family, from whom he escaped as a young man and 
fled west. He worked odd jobs and got by making music but wasn’t content with his life or his art — even when he landed 
with Fleet Foxes as the band’s 
on-tour drummer. He still wasn’t satisfied.
It was after that tour that Till-
man — sitting in a tree, naked and high off his ass on shrooms 
— heard his own voice for the first time. This creative vision birthed the persona of Father John Misty — propelled, I’m 
sure, by handfuls of extremely danger-
ous drugs and a nearly self-destructive drive to make art. He’s a cynical bastard, a smartass and genuine lunatic — often funny, sometimes self-indulgent, always insightful and wickedly handsome.
His first album detailed L.A., disil-
lusionment and dissatisfaction with his youth. His second, “I Love You, Honey-
bear,” is about him and his wife doing 
away with the Byronic tropes and instead showing a man terrified to death by him-self and the person he needs most.
His often-painful sincerity leaves him 
with a tendency to do away with any bullshit so unfortunate as to find itself in his path. FJM doesn’t limit this to his music either. The man’s Instagram feed is 
just an angry mockery of the kind of en-
titled navel-gazing Instagram has helped to blossom.
I believe if anyone can save us from 
another ‘80s, it’s him.
In response to the Ryan Adams “1989” 
cover, FJM released his own “reinterpre-tation of the classic Ryan Adams album ‘1989,’” which was the lyrics of Swift’s 
“Blank Space” shoehorned into the mel-
ody of “I’m Waiting For The Man,” a Velvet Underground song about going up-town to buy heroin. Misty later took the track down after posting a Facebook sta-tus about the band’s frontman Lou Reed appearing to him in a dream to scold him for summoning the dead.
The point: Father John Misty doesn’t 
just create music. He inserts himself into the unceasing dialogue that is popular culture, almost always calling bullshit on the whole thing and drawing attention to the parts of it that are gaudy and knee-deep in trash. He may not be the cultural icon we deserve, but he’s definitely the one we need.
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Fridays. The disposability of American pop 
culture and Father John Misty as an iconColumn
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.org
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org
“Regardless of how 
much attraction you 
feel to each gender, 
your bisexuality is 
still just as valid.”8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015
CAMPUS
By Briana Erickson
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Institute of Food and Agri-
cultural Sciences is celebrating its 
100th birthday this month.
As part of UF’s original status as 
a land-grant university, IFAS was 
started in 1915 to conduct agricul-
tural research that could be shared with neighboring farming commu-nities,   IFAS Dean and Director for Extension Nick Place said.  
Today, IFAS’s research benefits 
people in all 67 Florida counties, he said. Its goal is to find new ways to look at agriculture, food safety, nu-
trition, sustainable food production 
and other agriculture-related fields.
On Wednesday, UF History Ad-
visory Council chair Joe Kays recog-nized the program with a historical marker — a blue sign that labels an area as historically significant to campus.
It is IFAS’s 13th historical marker 
at UF. The sign is planted firmly in the ground at the Pugh Hall patio on Buckman Drive.
“Everything started in that part of 
campus,” Place said.
The marker is a testament to 
how crucial the IFAS program will continue to be for agriculture and conservation, said UF soil and water 
science first-year graduate student 
Drew Land.
“IFAS impacts people every day 
by providing people the most in-novative solutions to feeding the world,” the 20-year-old said.
As IFAS has grown, it has be-
come more inclusive, Place said. Within the past 100 years, it has ex-
panded to offer services to both rural 
and urban areas.UF alumna Aparna Gazula said 
she uses the skills she learned through IFAS every day.
She now works as an IFAS Ex-
tension Alachua County horticulture agent.
“The main goal is sharing with 
the clientele of the county the unique aspect of what we do — that’s get-ting the research information from the state into the county,” she said.
In 2014, Ga-
zula said about 24,000 people attended differ-
ent classes that the Alachua ex-tension office offered. About 113,000 people contacted the 
extension for help, ranging from drip-irrigation questions to pesticide trainings. The county offered more than 500 educational programs.
Bob Hochmuth, an IFAS regional 
specialized extension agent for Su-wannee Valley, said he has worked with the program for 28 years.
He said as new technology and 
new challenges arise, the research done at IFAS will help solve prob-lems and continue to move the in-dustry forward.
He said he likes to be able to 
watch the farmers he works with adopt new technologies first-hand.
“It’s fun to be a part of that suc-
cess,” Hochmuth said.
Kays said the program’s centen-
nial celebration marked its historic recognition.
“I think the neat thing is that 
(people) can learn a little bit about the university as they walk across campus,” Kays said.IFAS turns 100 and 
earns historic marker
IT COST $500,000.
Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
Real estate students are gaining 
a space where they can meet with 
mentors and have a place to study.
The newly renovated Kelley 
A. Bergstrom Center for Real Es-
tate Studies at Bryan Hall had its 
opening ceremony Thursday. The 2,100-square-foot renovation cost $500,000. The space now features several offices for staff and a confer-ence room where students can meet with mentors and real estate profes-sionals.
The project was supposed to be 
completed by June 29 but was de-layed, said Tim Becker, the center’s director. Two of the walls were load-bearing, which means they couldn’t be taken down immediately due to safety concerns. This is why the timeline had to be adjusted.Bryan Hall is one of the oldest 
buildings on campus, he said. The building is 101 years old, which made construction more difficult.  
Wayne Archer, the executive di-
rector of the center, said he was hap-py with the turnout for the opening.
“We have a really special spirit in 
the group,” he said.
He said the new conference room 
will be a great resource for students and mentors.
“It seems like a small thing, but 
it’s not,” he said. “It’s huge.”
Mahmoud Mihanyar, a real estate 
master’s student, said it was impor-tant for him to be at the ceremony.
“Our new center is fabulous,” the 
27-year-old said. “It’s a great place. 
It’s very modern.”Center for Real Estate 
Studies now renovated 
“Our new center is fabulous. 
It’s a great place. It’s very 
modern.”
Mahmoud Mihanyar
UF real estate master’s studentPlace
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
9-30-15-29-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!
Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    9-29-15-10-2
Historic Duck Pond: Vintage two-story 3bed/2bath available now. This clean, spa-cious home is beautifully restored! Walk to Downtown, Innovation Square, or UF. $1595/mo. Call/text Anita: 352-575-4395. email: 217@cozygator.com    10-1-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE MID DECEMBER!2BR/2BA at The Laurels Apt, $940/mo through July 2016, 1 mo free! Will pay $50 app fee! Full size W/D in unit. Call Yvonne @ 407-489-9323    9-25-15-5-3I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
Roommate-large beautiful T/HWanted-non smoker, clean, responsibleIncl-all utilities, cable pool, fitness10 min to Santa Fe- 15 to UF $550/moCall- 941-356-4841       10-5-15-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
NC MountainsNew Custom Built 2/2 cabin on 2+ acres w/mtn views only $154,900. Huge loft, stone fireplace, covered porch, large deck. 828-286-2981    9-25-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
GOATS - $125 - $250SHEEP - $200 - $300
Call Michael 352-316-2427     9-29-15-5-10
 Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified4 Roommates 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
MopedsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
A-1 DONATE YOUR CAR FOR BREAST 
CANCER!  Help United Breast Foundation education, prevention, & support programs.  FAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION -855-398-4992    9-25-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14
We are a local Christian Preschool hiring 
a young two/older three year old afternoon assistant. Must have experience working with children. 45 hour DCF training is not re-quired, but preferred. This is a PART TIME position, only 20 hours/week- you must be able to work Monday through Friday 1:30-5:30. Please reply by calling Angie or Brittani between 10:00am and 3:00pm at 352-373-5856   10-1-15-10-14
PETITION CIRCULATORS NEEDEDUp to $20-30 per hour or moreNo experience necessary Start today(386) 233-9939    10-8-15-14-14Park Place Car Wash now hiring finishers. Performance based pay $10-$15 hr. Must have drivers license and weekend availabil -
ity. Apply online or in person. parkplacecar -
wash.com or 7404 NW 4th Blvd   9-25-15-4-14
AllChem Industries is looking for an accounts payable / admin assistant. Three afternoons per week 1.30-5.30pm, one of the afternoons must be Friday. Up to six month position with potential to continue depending upon the needs of the business. Send your resume to rp0709@allchem.com.    9-29-15-5-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    9-25-1-14ATTN: Drivers- Great Miles + Top 1% PayFamily CompanyLoyalty Bonus! Quality EquipmentPet/Rider ProgramCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782 www.drive4melton.com    9-25-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    9-25-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    9-25-1-14Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
ACROSS
1 Better protected
6 “Poppycock!”
10 Badlands Natl.
Park site
14 Coarse
15 Suspicious of16 Pup follower?17 Up for grabs, in a
way
18 Lit. intro19 “Willard”
antagonists
20 The joke at the
audiologists’convention __
23 Solo, say24 Indian author
Santha Rama __
25 Century-starting
year
26 The joke at the
chemists’convention __
32 Not treat lightly
34 Normandy river35 “Defending Our
Nation. Securing
The Future” org.
36 __ swings
37 “POV” airer38 Extreme degrees39 “The Trumpet of
the Swan”
monogram
40 Boxed dozen
42 Vail topper44 The joke at the
firefighters’convention __
47 Part of a
friskiness
metaphor
48 Jersey’s chew
49 “The Simpsons”
leisure suit
wearer
52 The joke at the
cashiers’
convention __
56 Not even close
57 Lightest meson
58 Ex-TV host
Stewart
59 Kick back
60 Required bet
61 “R.U.R.” writer
Capek
62 Language that
gave us “bard”
63 Old Royale 8’s
64 Gambling aids:
Abbr.DOWN
1 Shining target
2 Journey frontman
Pineda
3 Mature
4 Henry James
biographer
5 Backtalk6 The Carpenters,
e.g.
7 Regarding
8 Mississippi
travelers
9 “Meet the
Fockers” co-star
10 Channel relative11 Word John
doesn’t want to
see?
12 They’re seen in
columns
13 Lapidary’s meas.21 Some flatbreads
22 Nero’s “Behold!”
27 Ref. shelf filler28 Singer Rihanna’s
first name
29 Where a love
story may bewritten
30 Workers’ rights
org.
31 Tweed
lampooner
32 Drake, maybe33 Start of a
dramatic
question
37 Like new snow38 End to peace?40 Evita’s man41 As expected42 Complacent43 Grizzly
Alaskans?
45 Walk wearing
Luvs
46 Dramatic units50 Principle51 Dividing range52 When one __
closes ...
53 Hardly blessed
events
54 Till opener55 Crack up56 NFL team with a
home fieldbleachers sectioncalled the DawgPound
By Amy Johnson©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/25/1509/25/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, September 25, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13 
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    9-25-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    9-25-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    
9-25-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  
Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    9-25-1-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    9-25-1-16
15 Services 15 Services 18 Personals
Headline
Story description Pg#
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online at www.alligator.org/sportsThe Florida soccer team, led by coach Becky Burleigh, will hit the road for a tough stretch of SEC games this weekend. Read the story on pg. 15. By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@brianlee_17
Zero and zero. Undefeated. A clean slate. 
The fifth-ranked UF volleyball team (8-
1) opens Southeastern Conference play at 
home tonight at 7 against the Ole Miss Reb-
els (14-1) with the mentality that they are beginning a brand new season. 
“We, at this point in time, feel that the 
goal is always looking at the entire year as three distinct seasons: the pre-conference, the SEC season and then the postseason,” head coach Mary Wise said. “We now go look at it as everyone is 0-0. Going to the 
SEC, that’s everyone’s record to date.” 
Undefeated in conference play last sea-
son, the Gators return five seniors, looking 
to fulfill the squad’s lofty expectations. 
They have taken their leadership roles in 
stride, a newfound responsibility appreci-ated by outside hitter Gabby Mallette.
“I definitely feel more pressure than I 
did as a freshman, but I would say it kind 
of comes naturally once you’re older and 
you have the younger players looking up to you,” Mallette said. 
“I love being the person that people look 
to when they need help and I love giving people that encouragement to keep going.” 
Florida’s combination of experience and 
young talent have given the team added depth this season. 
Against Florida State on Sunday, the 
Gators had four players record double-digit kills, putting that quality on full display. 
“For the past two years now we’ve had 
such good depth and just seeing how much people are evolving over that time frame is awesome," Mackenzie Dagostino said. "If we can have that many people in double digits, it makes it so much easier to get peo-
ple in that might not have an opportunity to 
play all the time."
The team will especially rely on its depth 
as it opens SEC play. Starting outside hitter 
Ziva Recek is away playing for the Slove-
nian national team as they compete in the European Championships. 
While operating short-handed, players 
have had to step up in situations where they 
previously haven’t had any experience. 
For example, sophomore setter Abby De-
tering served for sophomore middle blocker 
Rhamat Alhassan, then played the left back 
position against FSU, a spot where she was 
completely unfamiliar. 
“Sometimes you have to get out of your 
comfort zone when you’re asked to do some-thing that you’re not used to,” Wise said. 
“That shows such courage on the part of 
the team and is one of the reasons why we can continue to get better as our players ac-cept willingness to get out of their comfort zones for the good of the team.” 
One of the most intriguing matchups to-
day will take place at the net. Ole Miss touts one of the best front lines in the league, highlighted by sophomore middle blocker 
Taylor Alexander. 
She will be going up against Alhassan. 
“We have a big front line, I’m not too 
worried about one of their blockers when we 
have two or three of them," Dagostino said. 
"So I think we’re going to do great against them, and we’ve already played some pretty big players, so we kind of know what to do when we get into those situations.” 
At this point in the season, though, Wise 
isn’t only taking the final score into account. 
It’s about achieving consistent improve-
ment on a daily basis. 
“We are trying to be the best version of 
ourselves each time,” she said. 
“Now it’s a matter of playing teams that 
we are very familiar with, and there’s no secrets in league, and knowing we’ll get ev-eryone’s best shot.” FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
UF men's golf to compete in second fall tournament
The Florida men's golf team will compete this weekend at the DICK'S 
Sporting Goods Collegiate Challenge Cup in Kingston Springs, T ennessee. The tournament will be the team's first chance to compete in match play this season. We’re four weeks into the 2015 
college football season, and we here at the alligatorSports Brand Picks Column are an-ticipating Florida’s rivalry 
matchup with the Tennessee Volunteers. 
The Gators went into Lexington, Ken-
tucky, last week to face a Wildcats team that seemed poised for the upset. But Florida rode its defense to a 14-9 victory in UF’s Southeastern Conference opener. Florida was again undisciplined and its quarterback play was erratic under red-shirt freshman Will Grier, but the Gators 
found themselves in the win column for 
the third straight week. Now the unde-feated streak will be tested again against a Volunteers unit looking to snap UF’s 10-straight wins in the series. 
Debating Saturday’s Texas vs. Okla-
homa State game are alligatorSports as-sistant editor Luis Torres and alligatorS-ports staff writer Graham Hack. 
Oklahoma State (-3.5) will win 
because… Oh Texas, a program that 
can’t figure itself on and off the field at the moment. The athletic director — Steve Patterson — was forced out and Charlie Strong’s future is in the air, and 
he’s only in his second year at the helm. 
The Longhorns’ offense ranks 100th and redshirt freshman Jerrod Heard will face his toughest test yet as the Cowboys rank 26th in total defense and will bring the heat on the young quarterback. Expect Oklahoma State to win this game by two touchdowns easily covering the spread. 
— Luis Torres
Texas (+3.5) will win 
because... The Longhorns might be 
in a state of chaos right now, but that didn't stop them from giving Cal a run for its money last week in a 45-44 loss. They're also galvanized and will have 
a home crowd ready for its first big 
victory of the season on their side. As for Oklahoma State, the Pokes haven't faced a decent team yet this year. In their only road contest this season, they struggled to down Central Michigan. It's safe to say that environment won't compare to Austin on Saturday afternoon. 
— Graham Hack
Now on to the picks!PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 3:30 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: CBS
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15
VOLLEYBALL
Florida set for Southeastern Conference play
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF setter Mackenzie Dagostino sets the ball for middle blocker Simone Antwi 
during Florida's 3-1 win against Florida State on Sunday. We have a two-way tie for first this week, 
both sporting 15-8-1 records.
To start off is Gator Country’s Nick 
“Coach’s pet” de la Torre, who frequently sits 
in the front row of coach Jim McElwain’s press 
conference. Come on, Nick, you just look like a suck-up. It’s understandable if you’re trying to show McElwain what his hair color will look like in 20 years, but the guy could see that col-orless top from a mile away. 
Tied with Nick is the Orlando Sentinel’s 
Edgar “He was an attractive guy “ Thompson, 
who, while describing a ripped guy he saw at 
the gym, remarked how attractive the man was. He may have been attractive, Edgar, but there’s no way he compares with how attrac-tive Mark Long looks when he wears his typi-cal all-brown outfit. 
In third place with a 13-10-1 clip is alliga-
torSports editor Graham “One-Way” Hall, who 
nearly started driving the wrong way on a one-
way road in Lexington last weekend. It’s OK, Graham, the little girl who shouted “One way! One Way!” from her stroller had your back.
Tied with Hall for third place is the Palm 
Beach Post’s Anthony “Honey, they're bullying me” Chiang, who, after repeated attempts to set the record straight, still insists he is a Miami 
native. He even had his wife hop on Twitter 
to further propagate his bold-faced lie. This is becoming sad, Chiang.
Sitting in fifth place with a 12-11-1 record is 
Alligator managing/online editor Jordan “Sup, bro?” McPherson, who is apparently good bud-dies with linebacker Antonio Morrison. It was an awkward exchange to say the least, but that’s how most interactions with Jordan go. 
In sixth place with a paltry 8-15-1 record is 
alligatorSports assistant editor Luis “self-defe-cating” Torres, who while trying to say “self-deprecating,” said self-defecating. Hey Luis, we all know you can’t speak, but can you be a little more courteous of other people and not crap all over yourself?
Tied with Luis for sixth is 247sports.com’s 
Thomas “hashtag injury report” Goldkamp, who has built a reputation with Jim McElwain as being the “injury guy” because he's always asking McElwain who’s injured. Hey Thomas, he’s not a doctor. How is he supposed to know the difference between a low foot and a high foot? 
And STILL in dead-ass last with a piss-poor 
record of 7-16-1 is Graham “how do I put this in park?” Hack, who while driving to Kentucky and driving the other Graham’s Prius couldn’t figure out how to park the damn car. We know you’re used to driving a John Deere tractor that runs on diesel, but get with the technology. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
PICKS,  from pg14
  HALL  LT  HACK  JM
UF (-1.5) vs T enn  UF  UF  UF  UF
UCF vs SCar (-15)  SCAR  SCAR  SCAR  UCFTAMU (-7.5) vs Ark  TAMU  TAMU  TAMU  TAMUMiss State vs AU (-2)  AU  AU  MISS  AU
Mizzou vs UK (-2.5)  MIZ  UK  MIZ  UKMiss (-24.5) vs Vandy  MISS  MISS  MISS  MISSUCLA (-3.5) vs Arizona  UCLA  UCLA  UCLA  UCLAUtah vs Oregon  ORE  ORE  ORE  ORE
  ET  AC  ND  TG
UF (-1.5) vs T enn  UF  TENN  UF  UF
UCF vs SCar (-15)  SCAR  UCF  SCAR  SCARTAMU (-7.5) vs Ark  TAMU  ARK  TAMU                   TAMU
Miss State vs AU (-2)  AU  AU  AU  MISS
Mizzou vs UK (-2.5)  UK  UK  MIZ  UKMiss (-24.5) vs Vandy  MISS  VAN  MISS  VANUCLA (-3.5) vs Arizona  ARIZ  UCLA  UCLA  ARIZUtah vs Oregon  ORE  ORE  UTAH  ORESOCCER
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
 
The Southeastern Conference 
grind begins on the road this 
weekend for the No. 9 Florida 
soccer team.
After playing seven of their 
first nine games against non-
conference opponents, the Gators 
will play the rest of the season against SEC opponents.
Coach Becky Burleigh's team 
has little room for error having al-
ready dropped a conference game 
this season, losing to rival Texas A&M 2-1 on Sept. 10.
The weekend’s first game 
comes against Vanderbilt (5-4-1, 1-1 SEC), led by first-year coach Darren Ambrose, tonight at 8 in Nashville, Tennessee.
On Oct. 30 of last season, the 
Gators dominated Vandy 6-1 at home.
Florida is coming into this 
game with the mentality that last 
year’s result is a thing of the past, 
and that labeling the Commo-dores will only hurt the team.
“If we do, we end up losing to 
ourselves,” senior defender Chris-
ten Westphal said of creating as-
sumptions about Vandy.
“We have to take each game 
the same.”
Despite Florida’s dominance in the last matchup, the Commo-
dores — picked to finished 13th 
in the SEC in preseason voting — have looked like a much better team as of late than the preseason 
poll indicates.
In its most recent conference 
game, Vanderbilt played a hotly 
contested road match against a TAMU team that gave the Gators 
a lot of trouble on both sides of 
the field.
Despite a 1-0 loss, Vandy was 
able to outshoot the defending 
conference champions 12-9, while 
the Aggies outshot the Gators 11-7 in their match in Gainesville.
“(Ambrose has) got them feel-
ing good about themselves,” Bur-
leigh said. 
“I think they are a pretty confi-
dent bunch.”
Following Friday’s contest in 
Nashville, Tennessee, Florida will 
head to Auburn, Alabama, to play the Tigers on Sunday at 2 p.m. 
No. 13 Auburn (8-1, 1-1 SEC) 
is coming off a 3-1 win over Ten-
nessee, and has recorded just one 
loss all season — a 2-1 defeat at Missouri.
The Tigers will serve as a chal-
lenge for Savannah Jordan and the Gators' offense.
Auburn has recorded six shut-
outs over nine games this season, and lets up less than half-a-goal 
per game, on average.Jordan will get some much 
needed help from fellow junior 
Brooke Sharp, who has scored six goals in her last five games.
“Defenses have to worry about 
both of us now,” Jordan said.
“It gives more of a threat for 
our team going forward.”
The two road games com-
mence an all-SEC schedule for UF 
the rest of the regular season, a 
span stretching nine games.
This isn’t the first time this 
season that the Gators have been 
tested on the road twice in one 
weekend.
The first two games of the sea-
son, against UCF and Ohio State, respectively, were played on Aug. 
21 and Aug. 23. 
Florida took the first game 2-0, 
while dropping the second game 
1-0 in overtime.
This time, however, the Gators 
will play both matchups against conference foes.  
For Burleigh, getting through 
this weekend requires a certain 
type of preparation from her 
team.
“It’s just getting ourselves 
mentally and physically ready,” 
Burleigh said.
“(It’s) being ready for each 
game one at a time, and then 
physically taking care of our bod-ies before and in between the 
games.”UF faces tough SEC weekend slate
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Christen Westphal dribbles the ball during UF's 2-1 loss against 
T exas A&M on Sept. 10 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Now in downtown 
Gainesville INSIDE the 
Sun Center
101 SE 2nd place
352 - 215 - 1363
Open for Dinner after 
the game!
AIR JORDAN
This probably isn’t the start 
Jim McElwain envisioned.
Despite a couple scares, 
the Gators remain undefeated through three games, most 
recently a sloppy and inconsistent 14-9 road win against Kentucky.
Yet with the season heading into 
its fourth week, McElwain is still struggling to have some of his play-ers embrace the “team-ﬁ  rst” mental-ity he has stressed since taking over the Florida football program.
Saturday will be more of the 
same.
When Florida (3-0, 1-0 South-
eastern Conference) faces Tennessee (2-1) at 3:30 p.m., it will be without quarterback Treon Harris and cor-nerback Jalen Tabor due to suspen-sion, the third time in four games where UF has players suspended.
“That’s just the way 
it is,” McElwain said. “A lot of things hap-
pen to you as you go, 
it doesn’t matter what organization you’re in, you hit some bumps.”
But McElwain 
doesn’t want to go through these bumps.
A perfectionist, he has his pro-
gram is under a microscope.
The simplest misstep — being 
late to a meeting, missing a team dinner, not having your ankles taped before practice — and you’ll experi-ence his wrath.
His coaching style is the best it 
could be, making sure his players are mature and responsible off the ﬁ  eld before the step foot on it.
But still, despite this 
approach, and trying to 
get through to his team, 
McElwain still has play-ers who could be on the quick path to success but have risked throw-ing it all away.
Harris was slated to 
have opportunities to play against Tennessee following Will Grier’s 
lackluster performance against Ken-
tucky.
Instead, he’ll just watch the ac-
tion for the second week in a row, giving Grier a free pass to secure the starting job for the rest of the season if he excels against the Volunteers.Tabor, a freshman All-American 
last year and arguably Florida’s top cover cornerback not named Ver-non Hargreaves III next season, now casts an even larger cloud of doubt 
around himself to go along with two 
other off-the-ﬁ  eld issues since arriv-ing in Gainesville.
Now, the group of Quincy Wil-
son, Duke Dawson Brian Poole and Marcell Harris will see extended playing time because one of their top protection corners decided some un-disclosed action was more important 
than his potential football career.
“They chose not to play in this 
ballgame,” McElwain said.
Now, McElwain is moving on 
without them this week.
He has bigger priorities to worry 
about. 
Florida must adjust, adapt and survive despite suspensions to key players
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126Suspensions by 
game this season
 New Mexico State 
DL Alex McCalister, WR Latroy Pittman, S Marcus Maye, CB Quincy Wilson (1st half)
 East CarolinaWR Latroy Pittman
 KentuckyNone, but RB Kelvin Taylor demoted to third-string following throat-slashing gesture against East Carolina
 TennesseeQB Treon Harris, CB Jalen Tabor