We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 36 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015
Despite win, Gators volleyball 
seeks to ﬁ  x serving struggles
Florida had 14 service errors against Auburn on 
Sunday, pg. 13
Sheriﬀ   deputies arrest man for crack in butt
The ofﬁ  cer handcuffed him and reportedly felt something near his 
groin, pg. 3
UF students discuss domestic violence 
Speciﬁ  cally within the Latina community, pg. 5Football press conference video
For a video from the Florida football press 
conference on Monday about Will Grier's suspension, go to alligator.org.
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Florida starting quarterback Will Grier has 
been suspended from the football team for 12 
months following a violation of the NCAA’s substance-abuse policy on performance-en-hancing drugs.
Both Grier and UF coach Jim McElwain 
said Monday that the failed drug test resulted from Grier taking an over-the-counter supple-ment that wasn’t shown to or approved by Florida’s medical staff.
McElwain said UF plans to begin its ap-
peal process on the length of the suspension today.
“It’s something that he feels horrible 
about,” McElwain said. “It’s an honest mis-take and yet can be prevented by just check-ing with our medical staff. Want everybody to understand that this is a mistake we’ll learn from.”
UF did not disclose the supplement Grier used but refuted earlier reports that it was Li-gandrol, a selective androgen receptor modu-lator (SARM) and an alternative to anabolic 
steroids.
“Obviously there’s a 
leak in this system, and I’m 
OK with that,” McElwain 
said, “but leak the right 
things.”
Grier, a redshirt fresh-
man, is ofﬁ  cially listed at 6-foot-2 and 201 pounds, which is 18 pounds more 
than when he ﬁ  rst came to campus in Spring 2014.
Until the appeal is resolved, Grier will re-main ineligible to compete and is not allowed to travel with the team. However, he is al-lowed to participate in team practices.
If the appeal is denied, he will be eligible 
to compete until Oct. 12, 2016, resulting in Grier missing the remainder of this season 
plus the ﬁ  rst six games of the 2016 season, 
a slate that includes Massachusetts, North Texas and Florida’s ﬁ  rst four Southeastern Conference games.
An emotional Grier, ﬁ  ghting back tears at 
the lectern with his head coach by his side, stood in front of about 30 media members, ﬁ  ve television cameras and athletics director Jeremy Foley as his words were captured on 
Grier suspended for performance-enhancing drugs
A PLAQUE WILL ALSO 
BE ADDED.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
A battle over the separation of 
church and a state university has 
ﬁ  nally been settled.
UF is adding a plaque and three 
new quotes to Heavener Hall after the inscription of a biblical quote caused controversy in April, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote 
in an email. The school will start 
inscribing the extra quotes this week.
The plaque and secular quotes 
will be placed in the double arch-
way of Heavener in addition to 
the existing quote. The plaque will provide an explanation for those quotes, Sikes said. The 
three quotes being added are not 
religious, while the existing one is from the Bible.
The quote, from Micah 6:8, reads, “He has shown you, O 
mortal, what is good. And what 
does the LORD require of you? To act justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with your God.”
The quote was provided by the 
building’s donor and namesake James W. Heavener, Sikes said.
“The school has no interest in 
advancing or burdening religion; 
its only interest is educational 
and relates to the quotes’ core universal ethical principles,” she Heavener Hall gets three new quotes
He 's ineligible for 12 months
Grier
SEE GRIER,  PAGE 14
CAMPUS
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
UF wants to know if black stu-
dents feel comfortable on campus.
UF’s Division of Student Af-
fairs sent out a survey that will run 
through Oct. 31 asking black stu-
dents about their campus experi-
ences. In May, Gen. Dave Kratzer, vice president for Student Affairs, created a task force to identify the needs of black students on campus.
The survey asks students 
whether they agree or disagree with statements such as if they’ve been the only black student in a 
class, whether they feel included at 
UF and if they’ve ever experienced discrimination. When taking the survey, students can anonymously specify the race with which they identify, their gender and year in school.
Veleashia Smith, director of 
UF’s Institute of Black Culture, said 
UF would also get student opinions 
through focus groups and town-hall meetings during the next two weeks. She said this will help her identify what UF is and isn’t doing well.
“We wanted to get a feel for 
what exactly is the campus cli-mate,” she said.
The task force is using the Fall semester to collect data and will make recommendations in the Spring on how to improve campus for black students, she said.
“Whatever it looks like, what-
ever we’re hearing, we’d like to address as many concerns as pos-
sible,” she said.
The survey was done, in part, to 
address concerns that UF students 
could face discrimination, she said. Discrimination on campus is a gen-eral concern for universities.
Even one student facing dis-
crimination is a concern for the university, she said.
“If you have an instance that 
happens to you, that tends to change your lens,” she said. “You can’t protect all of your students.”
She said the deans of the col-
leges have been reaching out to the task force, asking how they can 
help black students. UF President 
Kent Fuchs has also been support-ive of the task force.UF conducts survey 
about black student experience and needs
SEE SURVEY,  PAGE 4 SEE HEAVENER,  PAGE 4
CAMPUS COMES OUT 
Natalie Heller, a 20-year-old UF ﬁ  nance junior, 
writes her name on the door at National Coming Out Day on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday to support coming out. Heller said writing her name on the door meant not being afraid. “If someone were to walk by and see my name, I wouldn’t care, ” Heller said. “The same time last year, I would not be willing to. ” Read the story on page 9.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
“If you have an instance that 
happens to you, that tends to 
change your lens. You can’t 
protect all of your students.”
Veleashia Smith
director of UF’s Institute of 
Black CultureSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
TOWHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘First Colony: Our Spanish 
Origins’ Exhibit Celebration
“First Colony: Our Spanish Origins” comes to the Florida Museum of Natural History! 
This bilingual and interactive 
exhibit reveals the story of how Spaniards, free and enslaved Africans and Native Americans crafted America’s original “melt-ing pot” in St. Augustine in 1565, long before Jamestown. Join the museum on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. as we welcome 
the exhibit with a free celebra-
tion including hands-on activi-ties and displays. For more infor-mation, call 352-846-2000.
Celebrate National Arts and 
Humanities Month at Pop-Up Culture  Did you know that October is 
National Arts and Humanities 
Month? To celebrate, UF is host-ing Pop-Up Culture on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Join UF for an array of activities that will celebrate the arts and humanities at UF. From musical performanc-es to live debates, from dancing 
to opportunities to paint, there’s 
something for everyone. There will also be live screen printing of Pop-Up Culture T-shirts (lim-ited availability). To learn more, visit arts.ufl.edu/ahmonth.
Drive a tractor at the fall festival
The UF Agronomy and Soils Club 
presents the annual Fall Festival 
on Nov. 4 from 2 to 5 p.m. at the Agronomy Teaching Farm locat-ed at 2024 IFAS Research Drive. Activities include free food, games, harvesting crops, driv-ing a tractor and more. Support the field and fork pantry with a non-perishable donation as ad-
mission.
GatorNights
GatorNights will have a 
“Welcome to New York” themed event on Friday from 8 p.m. un-til 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature Joe’s Spray Can Artist, live music from DJ 
Olympus and the Pride Student 
Union Drag Ball. GatorNights will also be hosting two show-ings of the movie “Trainwreck” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free pizza and Broadway karaoke during Midnight Munchies. This event 
is free for UF students with their 
Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
UF School of Theatre + Dance 
Presents ‘The Drowsy 
Chaperone’
Directed by Tony Mata with mu-sical direction by Tony Offerle, this Tony Award-winning mu-sical pays homage to musical comedies of America’s Jazz Age. Music, laughs and surprises abound when a musical theatre addict puts the needle down on 
his favorite vinyl cast record-
ing of the fictitious 1928 musi-cal, “The Drowsy Chaperone.” The Drowsy Chaperone, on stage in UF’s Constans Theatre, beginning Friday until Oct. 25, will make you fall in love with the theatre all over again. Performance times are 7:30 p.m. 
Friday and Saturday and Oct. 20 
to 24, and at 2 p.m. Sunday and October 25. Tickets are $13 for UF students, $15 for UF faculty/staff and senior citizens, and $18 
for the general public. More in-
formation is available at arts.ufl.edu/calendar. Tickets are avail-able through the University Box Office, by calling 352-392-1653 or at ticketmaster.com. Join the conversation online using #DrowsyChaperoneUF.
Toastmasters meets today
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets today at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, Room 1031, 970 Natural Area Drive, on UF campus, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art. Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. 
For details about Talking Gators, 
go to talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 36
HIGH  84° LOW  64°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Kristine  
  Janata, Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, Michael  
  Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Emma Green / Alligator
ZOMBIES! RUN!
David Ayers, a 22-year-old UF mechanical engineering senior, chases Maddox Corcoran, a 19-year-
old UF economics sophomore, on Turlington Plaza on Monday. Gators Humans vs. Zombies mem-bers played a mini-game to promote the organization.
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Alachua County Sheriff’s deputies 
arrested a Lake Butler man Sunday 
night after he reportedly tried to hide cocaine in his butt during a search.
At about 9:50 p.m., Michael 
James, 41, rode his bicycle through the 7000 block of SW Archer Rd. without lights, according to a police report.
An ofﬁ  cer reportedly stopped 
James for the lights and gave him a warning. The ofﬁ  cer noticed James acting nervously and asked to search him.
He agreed, but James reached for 
his groin several times during the search and told the ofﬁ  cer about a pipe in his belt, according to the re-port.
The ofﬁ  cer handcuffed James and 
reportedly felt something near his groin, but James still tried to hide the object.
He managed to move the object 
backward, almost between his butt cheeks, until the ofﬁ  cer pushed James’ hands up his back, according 
to the report.  
The ofﬁ  cer 
eventually found the object — a 
pill bottle report-edly holding four pieces of crack cocaine weigh-ing a total of .8 grams.  
James was found guilty on two 
counts of larceny in April and one count of larceny in 2011, according to Alachua County court records.
Police charged James with co-
caine possession and took him to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $30,000 bond. Sheriﬀ   deputies arrest 
man for crack in butt
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Most weekends, Ismael Iribar stands near 
Midtown and waits for scooters.
He stands on the sidewalk, holding his Can-
on 70V and waits to take a picture.
The photography is for his Facebook page, 
Gainesville Scooters, where the 28-year-old up-
loads photographs of locals riding their scoot-ers. Since its creation Sept. 9, Iribar has taken at least 800 pictures and uploaded about 150 of them.
Iribar said he started taking pictures of 
people on scooters because he thought it was an interesting setting in which to photograph people.
“People on the scooters are in their own 
bubble,” he said. “They’re riding down the streets and forget they’re in a public space.”
The UF alumnus, who graduated with a 
master’s degree in information systems and operations management in 2012, said he sees the scooter photography as a hobby alongside his job as an information technology consul-tant.
“I have to say my favorite picture is the 
only one that is in full color because this guy is decked out in head to toe in only orange and blue,” Iribar said.However, Iribar said he has yet to make a 
proﬁ  t from the scooter photography. The cam-
era cost him about $1,000, 
and the other equipment he 
uses cost about $500. But the self-taught photographer 
said he enjoys photograph-ing the scooters in addition to Gainesville landscapes.
“I’ve noticed people get 
a kick out of seeing them-selves in an unusual set-
ting,” he said. “You’d never get to see yourself riding through Midtown.”
Preeti Kumari, a UF management and in-formation systems master’s student said she wouldn’t have a problem if Iribar took a pic-ture of her on her scooter.
“When I ride the scooter, I like the air on 
my face,” the 26-year-old said. “When you ride in a car, you don’t get that feeling.”
Chase Mallory, a UF health science sopho-
more, said he thought Iribar had taken a pic-ture of him on his scooter once.
“I mean at ﬁ  rst it’s a little freaky, but after 
you realize what he’s doing, it turns out to be cool,” the 19-year-old said. “There is obviously 
a large and diverse population of both scooters 
and people, which makes the pictures interest-ing.”
UF alumnus photographs Gainesville scooter ridersJames
Iribar
said.
The addition will cost about 
$20,000, Sikes said. This will be 
paid for by remaining building 
construction funds.
The addition of the three 
quotes comes from about six 
months of compromise between 
UF and the Freedom From Reli-gion Foundation, said Andrew Seidel, an FFRF staff attorney.
Seidel had written a letter to 
UF President Kent Fuchs in April protesting the religious quote.
He said the foundation is hap-
py to have the quote, “My coun-
try is the world, and my religion 
is to do good,” from Thomas Paine on the plaque, as there are few monuments to him.
The other two quotes be-
ing added are:  “To restrain our selfish(ness), and to indulge our benevolent affections, consti-tutes the perfection of human nature,” by Adam Smith; and “Wealth is evidently not the 
good we are seeking; for it is merely useful and for the sake of 
something else,” by Aristotle.
While Seidel said this wasn’t 
the ideal solution, he was happy 
with the outcome.“All the parties are satisfied, 
but nobody’s satisfied 100 per-
cent,” he said. “One of the goals of college is to expand students’ 
horizons.”
Felicia Metellus, the president 
of UF Campus Alive, a Christian 
group, said she thinks the addi-
tion of the plaque was a good 
idea.
The 24-year-old said she 
supports all of the quotes. The plaque will increase student in-
terest in the quotes, she said.
“It’s always good to have a 
reference,” the UF pharmacy 
doctoral student said. “People 
can still look at the quotes and 
have their own interpretation.”
 UF currently has no formal 
policy for approving quotes on buildings, Sikes said. UF is cur-
rently developing a process for 
approving building inscriptions, design of monuments and art in public places.4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015
INTERNATIONAL
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
After UF finance senior Stacey 
Taft went on the Taglit-Birthright Israel trip in May 2014, she said 
she wished the Israeli soldiers 
accompanying her group didn't have to leave halfway through.
This winter, Jewish students 
will be able to stay with the sol-diers for the whole 10-day Birth-right Israel trip, thanks to the Birthright Israel Collaborative Enhancement Project, or BICEP, 
said UF Hillel’s director of Israel 
engagement Gia Campana.
UF Hillel is one of 22 Hillels in 
the country chosen to be a BICEP 
campus, Campana said. BICEP 
allows students on the Birthright Israel trip — a free 10-day trip to Israel for Jewish people aged 18-26 — to immerse themselves in 
Israeli culture even further.Taft, 21, said she thinks hav-
ing the soldiers stay the full time, 
rather than five days, will help 
immerse students in Israeli cul-
ture.  
The program also provides 
students with 
opportunities to meet with Israeli officials and take trips to places such 
as the Israel 
Defense Forces base, Campana 
said.
Out of approximately 500 Hil-
lels worldwide, UF’s took the most students on the trip last year — about 160 total, Campana said. This growth and commit-
ment to the trip is why UF Hillel 
was chosen to be a BICEP cam-pus.
“We value what Birthright is 
and what it does for people, and we want to utilize Birthright as part of our mission,” she said.
CEO of UF Hillel Rabbi Adam 
Grossman said he hopes the BICEP program will help stu-dents make connections after they return from the trip. BICEP 
also funds after-Birthright trips 
around the U.S.
“It enhances an individual’s 
connection to their own identity 
and allows them to utilize that 
to enhance their career opportu-nities and connect more deeply with the social purpose,” he said.
Campana said there isn’t a 
guarantee the program will con-tinue in the future, so students should apply for the trip now. There is no set deadline to apply 
for the trip, but Campana said it 
will likely be the end of October.  
Taft said she hopes students 
going on the trips feel a greater connection to her favorite coun-
try.
“We learn about it and we 
hear about it," she said, "but to 
experience it firsthand is a whole 
different thing."UF Hillel enhances Birthright trip
THERE WILL BE EVENTS 
THROUGHOUT THE WEEK.
By Chelsea Stromfeld
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and 
queer students will celebrate their history 
and progress this week.
UF LGBT Affairs and the Pride Student 
Union are honoring Pride History Week and hoping to educate students on the communi-ty’s history and help LGBTQ+ students feel accepted, said Carolyna Guillen, 20, internal vice president of PSU.
“It is about us standing together as a 
queer community and saying, ‘This is who we are, and this is what we stand for,’” the UF microbiology and cell science junior said.
Tonight at the Institute of Hispanic-Lati-
no Cultures (La Casita), PSU will show the 
film “The Way He Looks,” which follows 
the life of a blind and gay teenager. Guillen said people don’t often see someone with disabilities in the queer community.
Jim Obergefell, lead plaintiff in the mar-riage-equality Supreme Court case, will speak Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the University Auditorium, she said.
PSU will host its annual Drag Ball on 
Friday, where students will sing, dance and 
show off how vibrant they are, Guillen said.“This is a time for people to come into 
their own skin and further solidify who they 
are,” Guillen said. “As long as we stay si-
lent, nothing will get done.”
UF Spanish and advertising senior Rachel 
Eisen, a programming director for UF Pride 
Awareness Month, said the week encour-ages students to be comfortable with who 
they are.
“This week is great because, whatever 
you’re trying to figure out, whether it’s your 
sexual identity or your gender identity, it’s 
all awesome,” the 21-year-old said.UF celebrates queer history, progress and acceptance
In the first day of the survey, 
more than 120 students responded, 
she said.
Student Government is also ad-
vertising the survey.
Joselin Padron-Rasines, the UF 
Student Body president, is a member of the task force. She said she felt the survey was important to advertise.
“I wanted to make sure students 
see it,” she said.
Padron-Rasines said she values 
diversity on campus. The task force is looking to increase the number of 
black students staying at UF after 
their first year.
UF needs to improve how com-
fortable black students are on cam-pus, she said.
“I think this is step one,” she said.SURVEY,  from pg1120 students 
responded 
the first dayHEAVENER,  from pg1It took six months of compromise and almost $20,000
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
From left: Custom Quality Scaffold builders Bryson Swails, Dan Yunk 
and Chuck Griffith work on Heavener Hall's double archway  Monday. It's a free 10-day trip
Grossman
“It is about us standing together as a 
queer community and saying, ‘This is 
who we are, and this is what we stand 
for.’”
Carolyna Guillen
UF microbiology and cell science juniorOfficial: US dentist not 
wanted for killing lion
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
HARARE, Zimbabwe (AP) — 
Zimbabwe is no longer pressing 
for the extradition of James Walter Palmer, an American dentist who killed a well-known lion called Ce-
cil, a Cabinet minister said Monday.
Palmer can now safely return to 
Zimbabwe as a "tourist" because 
he had not broken the southern African country's hunting laws, Environment, Water and Climate Minister Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri told reporters in Harare on Mon-day. Zimbabwe's police and the 
National Prosecuting Authority had 
cleared Palmer of wrongdoing, she said.
Through an adviser, Palmer de-
clined comment.
Palmer was identified as the 
man who killed Cecil in a bow hunt. Cecil, a resident of Hwange National park in western Zimba-
bwe, was well-known to tourists and researchers for his distinctive 
black mane.
Muchinguri-Kashiri had said in 
July that Zimbabwean police and prosecutors would work to get Palmer returned to Zimbabwe to face poaching charges.
On Monday, she told reporters 
in Harare that Palmer can now safe-
ly return to Zimbabwe as a "tour-
ist" because he had not broken this wildlife-rich southern African coun-try's hunting laws.
"He is free to come, not for 
hunting, but as a tourist," Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri told reporters. "It turned out that Palmer came to Zimbabwe because all the papers 
were in order."
Cat expert Alan Rabinowitz, 
chief executive of the New York-
based cat conservation organiza-tion Panthera, said in response that "the bar must be raised" for any legal hunting of wild cats because wild lion populations are declining in most parts of Africa.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
SWINGING AWAY
Philippe Holas (left), 21, and Molly Behan, 20, dance together in the Reitz Union Breezeway on Mon-
day. The two UF civil engineering students participated in advanced swing lessons with the Florida Swing Dancing Club.
CAMPUS
By Esther Khoudari
Alligator Contributing Writer
Paintings will adorn trees throughout the 
Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday.
The paintings will be one of the UF Col-
lege of the Arts student showcases for Pop-Up 
Culture, an event celebrating National Art and 
Humanities Month. From 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., students will display their artistic abilities, 
showing off interactive artwork and perform-ing for a live audience. The event grew from 
about 14 student groups last year to about 30 
groups participating this week, said Leah Spell-man, the public relations and marketing man-ager for the college.
The college regularly hosts concerts and 
gallery shows, and this event served as a way to show what students are continually doing, said Lucinda Lavelli, dean of the college.  
“What we wanted to do was put a spotlight 
on what we were already doing,” Lavelli said.
Students who see most of the artwork and 
performances can receive a screen-printed T-shirt that’s made in front of attendees, Spell-man said.
UF public relations sophomore Daniel Ho-
pin will play the saxophone with his band, The Solar Ellipsis.“We’re expecting to play music, have some 
new people hear us and have a good time,” the 19-year-old said.
Lavelli said this is the only time in the year 
the arts and humanities come together.
“This day is like looking at a prism,” she 
said. “You adjust it like this, and you see all the beautiful colors and here you see all the different facets.”UF students celebrate National Arts and Humanities month
IT’S PART OF 
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE 
AWARENESS MONTH.
By Jennifer Jenkins
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students are speaking 
out against domestic violence 
Wednesday. 
As part of Domestic Violence 
Awareness Month, the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures is hosting “Breaking the Silence” 
to educate students about do-
mestic violence in the Latina community and encourage them to work to end it. 
The event, which will be 
held from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. in La Casita, will feature UF Well-ness Center psychologist Carlos Hernandez.
One-third of Latinas are af-
fected by domestic violence in the U.S., said Institute of His-panic-Latino Cultures Ambassa-dor Jessica Valdes.
The 20-year-old UF politi-
cal science sophomore said she thinks UF students who aren’t from a Hispanic-Latino back-
ground may not know how 
prevalent domestic violence is in the Latina community.
Hernandez will speak at the event about the psychology of 
domestic violence victims who 
fear asking for help, Valdes said.
The event will open a discus-
sion about domestic violence, making it easier for victims to come forward, said Sarai Cha-varria, the treasurer for the 
Coalition of 
Hispanics In-
tegrating Span-ish Speakers through Advo-
cacy and Ser-vice. 
CHISPAS is 
co-sponsoring 
the discussion.
“If people are not willing to 
talk about it, it creates an atmo-sphere for it to continue,” the 25-year-old said.
Chavarria said she thinks 
a “macho” attitude, where the man sees himself as superior, may contribute to domestic vio-lence in the Latina community.
“I would like people who 
come to this meeting to leave feeling empowered,” she said.  “I would like every woman to 
feel that their voice matters and 
for more women to support oth-er women.”UF students discuss 
domestic violence in Latina community 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ROSEBURG, Ore. — Hundreds 
of people lined the road leading 
to the Oregon community college where a gunman killed nine peo-ple, holding signs reading “UCC 
Strong” as students returned 
Monday to the scene of the dead-liest shooting in state history.
The Umpqua Community Col-lege campus in the small town of Roseburg reopened last week, but students are heading back to class for the first time since the Oct. 1 shooting, which also wounded nine people.
Oregon Gov. Kate Brown 
joined interim college President Rita Cavin and Student Body 
President Tony Terra in welcom-
ing students who returned for morning classes.“There was a lot of hugs and 
a lot of tears,” the governor told reporters. “We are here to help students rebuild their lives.”
The gunman, Christopher 
Harper-Mercer, 26, shot his vic-tims in a classroom in Snyder Hall before exchanging fire with police and then killing himself.    
The campus was closed to the 
media for much of the day.  Students return after campus shootingHernandez
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Gun laws, restroom 
rhetoric and the 
cowardice of 
anonymity
On the door of the middle stall in the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor men’s re-
stroom at Weimer Hall, there hangs a piece of paper. Normally we wouldn’t pay much attention to bathroom scripture, for, after all, it’s usually only good for poop jokes and hastily scrawled phone numbers that promise a “good 
time.” Bathroom grafﬁ  ti and musings are eminently disposable, an artistic outlet for those who couldn’t cut it tagging overpasses on I-95. But sometimes you see something so — if you will — shitty, so awful, you can’t help but be compelled to write about it in your college newspaper.
“Dear Fellow Students,” the letter begins on a polite, innocuous 
note. “(On Oct. 1) our fellow Americans in Oregon suffered terrible tragedy.” Why, yes they did our grammatically challenged anony-mous friend — what do you have to say about it?
“What was undeniably a terrible tragedy for the family and 
friends should be reminder to all of us: the world is a sometimes ugly place… I would implore you to not be so easy to listen to people who tell you that such ugliness is easily avoidable,” the note continued.
Hmm, OK. Before we offer our strongly worded retort, here is 
the point our dear author was building to:
“Terrible, evil events have been present throughout the world, 
regardless of the availability or presence of guns… I am a proud 
gun owner. I’m a nice guy. I follow the rules… Wouldn’t you rath-
er feel a little safer knowing that a fellow student sitting in your class had a gun, only to use during the most unimaginable and horriﬁ  c of events?”
WHOA! Slow down there John Wayne, you’re getting a little 
too excitable for our liking. We believe we speak for many Gators when we say, no, we most certainly would NOT feel safer having guns in our classrooms, regardless of the intended purpose. Our li-braries, lecture halls and residence halls are not goddamn saloons; 
they’re places of learning and enrichment, not of violence.
Following the Umpqua Community College shooting, we re-
frained from speaking on the matter. Many of our columnists did 
an excellent job of offering their perspectives last week, and we said much of what we needed to with regards to American gun violence following the Aug. 26 slaying of Alison Parker and Adam Ward. But it astounds — nay, is somewhat heartbreaking — to know a fellow Gator would use a tragedy as an opportunity to anonymously advocate for INCREASING the circulation of guns.
We’ve heard it all before: “Guns don’t kill people, people do!” 
“When Barack Hussein Obummer comes knocking on my door, I want to make sure that I can protect my family from his ﬁ  lthy communist paws!”
We get it, guys. We know you cling to your fetishized metallic 
phalluses in a manner akin to a groupie at a Trey Songz show; we’ve learned the hard way there’s no changing that. But we po-litely ask that you wear your ignorance and anger on your sleeve, not relegate it to online CNN comments and toilet texts. Let us 
know who you are, so we can frustratingly rattle off talking points 
like Australia’s gun laws before getting exasperated and going to talk to someone else. Let us know who you are, so when that mythic day comes and gun laws in this country actually change, we can be there to help you reintegrate into the world.
As much as we loathe and detest the rhetoric of this man’s letter 
— because, yes, it was assuredly written by a white male — we’re glad we found it in the bathroom, because that’s where it belongs.Not all college friendships will last, and that’s OK
Two years ago, in my ﬁ  rst college psy-chology course, I learned about Dun-bar’s number.
Robin Dunbar, a British anthropolo-
gist, proposed back in the ‘90s that the 
average human is able to maintain about 150 stable social relationships. Based on the cor-relation between primate brain size, social group size and other scientiﬁ  c things I have no desire to delve into, this number has been widely accepted by the academic community, but not by yours truly.
Personally, 150 seems a bit steep considering the 
way I go about making friends or “stable social rela-
tionships.” Since the beginning of high school, I would 
venture to say I’ve made about 30 friends, and even that might be an overestimate.
OK, so I’m at 20 percent of my true potential. But 
even in that group of 30 I’d guess, at most, eight will maintain that friendship status ﬁ  ve years from now.
This musing is prompted by a number of things, in-
cluding my best friend receiving her ﬁ  rst acceptance to law school, recently catching up with two high school 
friends who will undoubtedly be a part of that elite 
eight, and coming to terms with my rapidly approach-ing demise (um, I mean graduation).
We’re living in an environment where practically ev-
eryone you meet is your “friend” — in the social-media sense of the word — and we’re constantly trying to por-tray some sort of intriguing self-image for people we don’t even really care about. 
A recent Alligator editorial posed the question of 
how and when to remove those bygone friendships via Facebook — a topic that’s extremely relevant consid-ering how inundated with meaningless social relation-ships we are. 
So, I suppose the real question at the center of all 
this rambling is whether networking for the sake of net-working is really worth it.
I know people on both sides of this spectrum, with the ﬁ  rst being the UF celebrity type: they have connections to anyone I meet, a social media following and a true social-butterﬂ  y disposi-tion. The second takes the secular hermit ap-proach, which mainly consists of not indulg-
ing in any transitory friendships due to the 
likelihood they won’t last post-undergrad.
Now, I don’t think either of these are the 
most ideal approaches, as is usually the case with any extremist position. Turn friendships into tools to win a popularity contest and you lose any true connection to them. Avoid mak-
ing any new friends and, well, I imagine life gets pretty lonely.
In time, it becomes vividly apparent which friends are 
in it for the long haul. I had exactly three best friends in high school and added another three to that total in the last two years of college. Six is a manageable number. These friends have seen me at my worst, weirdest and most obnoxious, yet they somehow haven’t grown sick of me. Weeks can pass without word from them, but as soon as we reconnect it’s as if no time has passed.
If they call past my strict 9:30 p.m. bedtime, I’ll an-
swer. It’s the accumulation of these insigniﬁ  cant indi-cators that clue you into who should be prioritized in your life.
With that said, there’s no reason to cut those distant 
friends out altogether. Just because you know he or she may not be kicking it with you in the nursing home doesn’t mean you can’t have fun with him or her in the meantime. Having someone to chat with during classes, meetings and parties makes life a little less mundane. 
And, who knows? Maybe they’ll turn out to be best 
friend No. 7. 
So here’s to great friends and mediocre friends alike 
— thanks for making me who I am today and not hating me when I take three days to reply to your texts.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgWhen I came 
to UF two years ago, I had no plans of 
continuing with art because my parents made it seem like it was something that should be left behind in my childhood years. 
During my time in college, 
I have been floored to see art embraced in innumerable ways, from art in the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art and University Gallery as well as in engineer-ing, sciences, health or law to the incredible work produced by my friends in the UF College of the Arts who spend their waking hours in the studio. 
Slowly but surely I have found 
my way back to art because my professors and the really impres-sive students I have been lucky to meet have renewed my deter-mination to incorporate it into my education based on how they lead their own lives through nec-essary creative bursts.
National Arts and Humanities 
Month takes place every year in 
October, and I am thrilled to at-
tend the Pop-Up Culture event Wednesday on the Plaza of the Americas. 
What I am envisioning is an 
art takeover of the Plaza of the Americas that is in-tune with the national theme of #ShowY-ourArt. 
Public displays of art inspire 
civic pride, uniting us in our ap-preciation of what we have col-lectively produced. 
As hardworking students 
in and outside of the arts join together with faculty and pro-fessionals to showcase around 33 art-making and art-learning 
activities as well as dance and 
musical performances, I believe our campus is really going to be amazed at the depth, breadth and multi-tude of creative talents 
coming together from 
across so many disci-plines on campus. 
These are students 
and community mem-bers who you know in your everyday life. 
This is also an op-
portunity for you to exhibit 
yourself and push the people 
you know to challenge creative limits in such a public space.
For me, art will always ex-
ist between the person and the piece, while dynamically chang-ing with every new interaction and interpretation. 
We are exhibiting that very 
idea Wednesday in the 6-by-8-foot wooden canvas our team built with grant money awarded by the Bob Graham Center for 
Public Service. 
We have drilled into the can-
vas more than 2,000 color-coor-
dinated screws. 
As people walk past it on 
their way to class or the library, I hope they take a couple mo-ments to stretch a few of the more than 10,000 rubber bands 
across the screws so we are able 
to collectively recreate the Mona Lisa. 
In order to work the art piece 
and our community to its great-
est potential, we all have to con-
tribute a small piece. The arts and humanities are essential in our experiences at UF because 
they help us bridge disparate 
disciplines in order to graduate as more adaptable and multi-faceted individuals. I hope you join us in celebrating National 
Arts and Humanities Month on 
Wednesday!
Kindest,
Ms. Van TruongTUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 
Last Wednesday marked the 
14th anniversary of the U.S. war in Afghanistan. While 
officially as old as this 
year’s high school fresh-
man class, the conflict seems to only be getting worse.
On Oct. 3, a U.S. airstrike lev-
eled a Doctors Without Borders (Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF)) hospital in Kunduz, Afghanistan. The air raid, which “continued 
in a ‘sustained’ manner for 30 
more minutes,” killed at least 20 people — doctors, patients and children included — and severely 
wounded 37 staff and civilians.
Adding insult to injury, over 
the past week, U.S. officials have 
done a complete 180-degree spin in their responses. 
In the immediate hours after 
the bombing, senior U.S. mili-tary officials stated the airstrikes “may have resulted in collateral 
damage to a nearby medical fa-
cility.” 
General John Campbell, com-
mander of U.S. forces in Af-ghanistan, stated, “An airstrike 
was then called to eliminate the 
Taliban threat, and several inno-cent civilians were accidentally struck.”
Then, officials told The New 
York Times the Taliban con-tinually fired at Afghan national forces and U.S. soldiers from the hospital, using it as a base. 
This narrative developed into 
a full-on justification of the air-strike in response to the Taliban using MSF staff and patients as 
“human shields.”
In the immediate aftermath of 
the bombing, MSF International 
tweeted, “To be clear; not a sin-gle member of our staff reported 
any fighting inside #Kunduz hos-
pital compound prior to US air-strikes Saturday morning.” 
In response, MSF declared 
the justification of the airstrike as, “admission of a war crime (which) utterly contradicts the 
initial attempts of the US govern-
ment to minimize the attack as ‘collateral damage.’”
This air raid is, unfortunate-
ly, not the first tragedy we have 
heard out of Kunduz recently. 
Three months ago, Afghan gov-ernment forces raided the exact same MSF-run Kunduz hospital 
under the pretense that MSF staff 
treated an al-Qaeda member. 
Under international law, MSF, 
as an independent organization, has no stake in the war and can 
operate on injured individuals 
from all sides of the conflict.
Moreover, since April, the Tal-
iban have made developments in the province of Kunduz, slowly surrounding the city, and nearly 
a week before the hospital bomb-
ing, the Taliban launched a full-scale takeover in Kunduz. 
As of Oct. 1, Afghan govern-
ment forces reclaimed the city, with extensive aid from U.S.-led airstrikes.
This begs the question: If the 
U.S. air force performed success-
ful air raids (no reported civilian 
casualties) against the Taliban in Kunduz, why was a civilian, MSF-run medical location target-ed just days later?Although we lack empiri-
cal evidence regarding the exact motivation behind this specific 
airstrike, it has all the familiar 
symptoms of U.S. counter-terror-ism operations, which often pay no regard to civilian life. Jeremy 
Scahill, a top investigative jour-
nalist revealed in his documen-tary “Dirty Wars” the full extent of U.S. night raids in Afghan villages, which, in the pursuit 
of counter-terrorism initiatives, 
have resulted in thousands of ci-vilian deaths since 2011.  
Furthermore, in 2009, U.S. 
forces raided an Afghan char-ity hospital southwest of Kabul in search of Taliban insurgents. During the raid, U.S. soldiers abused hospital staff and disrupt-
ed patients, actions a Swedish 
investigative committee deemed as a “violation of humanitarian principles… (and) went against 
an agreement between NATO 
forces and charities working in the area.”
All this is to say: We have a 
depressing human-rights record 
in the Middle East regarding ci-
vilian casualties. Eventually, we are going to have to face the consequences of our actions, or 
“mistakes.”
The first step is to simply hon-
or the request of MSF: permit an 
investigation by an independent organization. 
It would be only appropriate 
to extend compensation to the devastated families, which U.S. officials have agreed to permit 
(albeit slowly) and to sustain the 
revitalization of the hospital.
In the words of Dr. Liu: “To-
day, we say, ‘Enough.’”
David Hoffman is a UF history 
and physics sophomore. His col-umn appears on Tuesdays.A US air raid, a leveled Afghan 
hospital and no clear answers in sightColumn
David 
Hoffman
opinions@alligator.orgPop-up culture enthrallingGuest column
Van Truong
Speaking Out
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local man 
early Sunday morning after he reportedly 
threw his beer bottle at a car and caused 
$700 in damages Saturday night.
At about 11:35 p.m. Saturday, Julius L. 
Rumph, 31, stood in the 200 block of SW sixth Ave. drinking a Budweiser beer less 
than a half-mile from the county’s Criminal Justice Center, according to a police report.
Rumph reportedly saw his ex-girlfriend 
turn right at a nearby intersection, and he proceeded to throw his glass bottle at her windshield.
The bottle cracked her windshield and 
then rolled over the car, creating a dent in 
the roof and deep gash in the roof’s paint, according to the report. The bottle then 
broke into shards of brown glass across the road.
Rumph and the woman reportedly sepa-
rated about three months ago, and he was mad about not being allowed to see their three-week-old daughter, according to the report.
Since 2003, Rumph has been found 
guilty on nine charges of selling or possess-ing cocaine, along with three charges for resisting an ofﬁ  cer and one for domestic battery, according to Alachua County court records.
Police arrested Rumph on charges of 
ﬁ  ring a missile into a vehicle and crimi-nal mischief and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released Monday morning on a $12,500 bond.Police arrest man for throwing bottle, causing $700 in damages
Gainesville 
Throwbacks
Oct. 16, 2011
The 18-person grand jury for the Danny Rolling 
murder trial was selected about three weeks before 
the beginning of the trial. Rolling was the prime sus-
pect for the killing of ﬁ  ve college students — four from UF and one from Santa Fe Community College — in August 1990. State Attorney Len Register said 
he and Assistant State Attorney Jim Nilon planned 
to present evidence to the jury in a trial that was expected to last at least one week. Included among the evidence was thousands of individual ﬁ  les, most of which were directed toward Rolling with a fraction 
of the information being presented against 20-year-
old former UF student Edward Humphrey, who was also a suspect. Register said the cases against both Rolling and Humphrey would mostly rely on genetic 
evidence; semen found at all three crime scenes con-
nected Rolling to the murders, while hair samples from at least two of the sights tied Humphrey to the killings.
Oct. 15, 2001One year after returning to campus following a 
suspension, UF’s Chi Phi Fraternity was placed on social probation until Oct. 31. The Greek Judicial Committee held the fraternity responsible for provid-
ing false information during a July hearing that ab-
solved Chi Phi of charges for sponsoring an open al-cohol “Get Wet” party in July. Chi Phi was also held responsible for allowing a non-UF student to live at 
the chapter’s house.
Oct. 16, 1975
The containers of milk and orange juice found in 
vending machines around campus no longer were coming directly from UF’s Institute of Food and Ag-ricultural Sciences after the dairy processing plant 
on campus stopped producing and packaging dairy 
products. “The original purpose of having our own processing equipment was to teach students tak-ing the dairy management course,” said Harold Van 
Horn, chairman of the Dairy Science Department. 
“Unfortunately, most of our equipment is outdated by now, and dairy management students would have 
to learn the processing methods of the company they 
work for,” he said. Private dairy company T.G. Lee is now supplying the dairy and orange juice products.
-Ariana Figueroa 
and Jordan McPherson
Mariana Riquezes / Alligator
STRIVE BRIGHT
STRIVE members Kelly Sel-
wyn, 26, Sarah Boeshart, 25, and Kelsey Roman, 20, pass out buttons and contraceptives to pedestrians on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday. The three UF students were there to pro-mote their organization’s goal of preventing interpersonal vio-lence on campus.
BREAST CANCER AWARENESS WEEK
Gamma Eta Sorority member Diana Rodriguez talks to Victoria Verdeja, a 21-year-old UF journalism ju-nior, about the organization’s planned events for Breast Cancer Awareness Week. They have four events planned, including a beneﬁ  t kickball tourna-ment on Oct. 25.
Mariana Riquezes / AlligatorTUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
By Danielle Veenstra
Alligator Staff Writer
dveenstra@alligator.org
“What is wrong with you and your sis-
ter?” Carolyna Guillen’s father asked after 
he found out both his daughters identiﬁ  ed 
as a lesbians.
But then her father said he would love 
her no matter what. He kept his word, 
Guillen said. Now she is UF Pride Student 
Union’s internal vice president.
“He’s like the light of my world,” said 
the 20-year-old UF microbiology and cell 
science junior. “It hit me hard when he said that.”
Guillen was one of about 20 students 
to celebrate coming-out stories during the 27th anniversary of National Coming Out Day on the Plaza of the Americas on 
Monday. The UF Ofﬁ  ce of LGBT Affairs 
and Pride Student Union collaborated to host a gallery of inﬂ  uential people in the LGBTQ+community and a timeline show-ing the progress of LGBTQ+ rights.
Guillen, who helped organize the event, 
said the day was about realizing the indi-vidual power each student has to help LG-BTQ+ people feel accepted.
UF’s campus has not always been in-
viting to the LGBTQ+ community, said Chuck Woods, former UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences faculty member.
Woods said he was pulled from his stu-
dent dorm by a University Police investiga-tor in 1959.
“We have information that you are a ho-
mosexual,” Woods recalls the investigator 
saying, leading Woods to an interrogation 
room at the police station.
He was shown a letter from J. Wayne 
Reitz stating the university wanted to help Woods with his “problem.”
“Had I admitted anything, I would have 
been kicked out,” he said.
The investigation was part of the Florida 
Legislative Investigation Committee that 
searched to expel homosexual students 
and faculty in Florida universities. Known as the Johns Committee, UF was the ﬁ  rst university to be searched in 1958.
Although UF’s past was dark, Woods 
said, it has made progress: It founded the Gay and Lesbian Student Union in 1991, which later became Pride Student Union in 2000.
In 2004, UF’s LGBT Affairs was estab-
lished, providing support to LGBTQ+ stu-dents.
But being “out” is still difﬁ  cult for some 
students on campus. UF journalism senior 
Bradley Norman said PSU’s public ap-
proach to coming out left a sour taste in his mouth.
“I think PSU and UF have done a lot 
with people that can be out and proud,” the 22-year-old said. “But sometimes it’s like people who aren’t out get left out.”
Guillen said PSU strives to create a non-
judgmental community for students strug-
gling to come out, providing a safe place 
for discussion.
“You don’t have to be out to your fam-
ily,” Guillen said. “If you just want to be 
out to us and your friends, that’s ﬁ  ne be-
cause you are still welcome… Anything that happens in Pride doesn’t leave Pride.”Say it loud, say it proud
Buttons wait to be picked up 
by visitors on the information table at the National Coming Out Day event on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday. LB Hannahs (not pictured), social justice initiatives coordinator and director of LGBT Affairs, said pronouns can put a gender on someone that they haven’t chosen. “They are very small words, ” Hannahs said, “but they have a lot of meaning to them. ”
Veronica Cinibulk, a 19-year-old UF psychology senior, reads about inﬂ  uential people in the LGBTQ+ community during the Pride Student Union and the UF Ofﬁ  ce of LGBT Affairs’ event celebrating National Coming Out Day on Monday. Cinibulk said she understood why there was conﬂ  ict over LGBTQ+ is-sues with the lack of education at that time. “We still have a long way to go, ” she said.
Pride Student Union ambassadors discuss the history of LGBTQ+ rights and the resources offered for LGBTQ+ students at UF at the National Coming Out Day celebration on Monday. Maggie Creegan (right), a 23-year-old LGBT Affairs gradu-ate assistant, said the timeline teaches people about LGBTQ+ individuals who have been a big part of history. Students may not have learned about them any other way, she said.
Photos by Danielle Veenstra
 Alligator StaffTUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
1 bed available in 2/1 w/ mature female stu-dent. $425.00 monthly including utilities and high-speed internet. 2 miles from UF. (352) 631-0737    10-16-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    10-13-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
WANTED: Serious student for peace & 
quiet. Private 1BR, unfurnished, garage apt in town, NW Gainesville. $325/mo. Call 376-6294    10-19-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
CONDO FOR SALE:Meadowbrook Golf Course Upstairs Corner Unit, 2/2, 1273 Sq Ft. MLS # 367033 $124,900. Call Mary Jo Brick 352-219-0430 San Felasco Real Estate Services, Inc for an appt.    10-14-15-5-5
Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLCReal Estate Services“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-16-15-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished5 Real Estate 2For Rent
unfurnished7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-1398 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
CITT Web Services captioning has an 
OPS part-time position for typist to assist with transcribing video recorded lectures. Knowledge of ADA standards a plus.  Must be an excellent listener and able to type 40 correct words per minute. 15-20 hours/week  8.05/hr . Send resume to Kim Standifer standik@ufl.edu   10-13-15-10-14
Collins Reinforcing is now hiring Rodbusters rebar ironworkers experienced and non ex-perienced for work at the Gainsville Standard Call 828 442 9798 or 828 659 2867    10-27-14-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance, music
and much more in an
after school program at various schools.
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed.
12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office
@ 955-7766
10-16-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
21 Entertainment 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services
Headline
Story description Pg#
Paul Spangler and the Florida 
cross country team is focused on improving by implementing an intense practice schdule. Read the story on pg. 16 By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
Mary Wise watched her player’s 
serves fly out of bounds and into 
the net left and right on Sunday.
Fourteen times the Gators 
couldn’t drop their serves in bounds on the opponent’s side of the court during their sweep of 
Auburn, tied for third most this 
season.
Fourteen service errors are 
enough to make the fans at the O’Connell Center agitated, let 
alone Wise, who sat on the edge of 
her seat along the sideline clacking her heels against the wooden floor.
Sophomore outside hitter Carli 
Snyder sailed a serve long on the first play, which can be pivotal in dictating early momentum.
Early in the second set, Sny-
der couldn’t find the court and 
committed her third service error. 
Wise, visibly irritated, didn’t let Snyder serve again after that.
Per usual, Wise subbed in 
sophomore setter Abby Detering for Rhamat Alhassan to serve in the third set. 
When Detering floated her 
serve past the service line to give 
Auburn an 11-6 advantage, Wise 
immediately hung her head.
After the game, Wise had one 
word to describe how frustrated 
she was: “very.”
But Wise said there was good 
reason for so many service errors.
“If teams aren’t passing as well 
you don’t have to put as tough a serve in play,” Wise said. “But Au-
burn was passing so well, we were trying to create pressure. You’re 
gonna miss some, we just prefer not so many.”
Despite being ranked next to 
last in the Southeastern Conference with 2.48 service errors per set this season, Florida did see bright spots 
in the serving department.
One of them: Lindsey Rogers.
The redshirt freshman entered the first set in service relief for 
Snyder and led the Gators to six straight points, taking a 20-16 lead 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
So long, Head Ball Coach 
Former Florida coach Steve Spurrier retired as coach of South Carolina on 
Monday. Spurrier won one national title, six Southeastern Conference titles and lost just five home games in 12 years as the Gators coach. Spurrier also won the Heisman Trophy in 1966 as the quarterback for Florida. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF coach Mary Wise calls out instructions during Florida's 3-0 win against Auburn on Sunday at the O'Connell Center. The Gators had 14 
service errors in their win against the Tigers on Sunday. 
Despite win, Gators volleyball seeks to fix serving struggles
JOHN EGBUNU SAT OUT 
LAST SEASON DUE TO NCAA 
TRANSFER RULES.
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
About two weeks ago, after he was fin-
ished fielding questions from a throng of 
reporters at Florida’s Media Day, John Eg-bunu headed towards the exit with a layer of sweat coating his face.
“Why are you so sweaty?” one of his 
teammates asked as Egbunu walked out of the media room.
“I was scared, man,” Egbunu replied 
jokingly.In his first media appearance, UF’s 
6-foot-11 center from Bauchi, Nigeria, was 
soft spoken and reserved. In his first full 
week of practice, Egbunu 
was anything but.
“His decibel level,” 
coach Mike White said of 
the USF transfer, ”you’ll hear it in the O’Dome.”
White has made a 
concentrated effort to in-
crease communication in 
practice. During informal 
summer practices, scrimmages were often too quiet.
“It was kind of dead, no one talked,” 
forward Justin Leon said. “Compared to now, it’s a lot more vocal.”Center finding voice on court
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15
Egbunu
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
Florida's midfielders have improved 
drastically since the beginning of the sea-
son.  
The No. 12 Gators (10-3-1, 4-2-1 South-
eastern Conference) are coming off of a two-win weekend and coach Becky Bur-leigh said that some of the success can be 
attributed to the chemistry that is building 
between the central players.
“Like anything, the more you play with 
people, the more chemistry develops,” Burleigh said. “I think you’re starting to see more and 
more chemistry develop, particularly be-tween the central players on our team like 
when Meggie, Liz and Lu (Lauren Smith) 
play together. 
"They really read each other well and 
it’s becoming a much better situation than 
what we had earlier in the year.”
Midfielders Meggie Dougherty How-
ard and Liz Slattery were part of multiple 
scoring chances for the Gators over the weekend. The team defeated Tennessee 
2-1 on Friday and LSU 2-1 on Sunday.
Slattery found the back of the net for 
the game-winning goal against Tennes-UF midfield key for success
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15SOCCER14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015
Notables on the 2015-16 
NCAA Banned Drugs List
Stimulants
Notables include Amphetamine (Adderall); caffeine (guarana); cocaine; methylphenidate (Ritalin); “bath salts” (mephedrone)
Exceptions: Phenylephrine 
and pseudoephedrine are not banned
Anabolic Agents
Testosterone; SARMs; Methasterone
Alcohol and Beta Blockers  
Alcohol; atenolol
Diuretics (water pills) and other masking agents
Bumetanide; chlorothaizide
Street Drugs
Heroin, marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) synthetic cannabinoids (e.g. spice)
Peptide Hormones 
and Analogues  
Growth hormone (hGH); 
human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG)
Anti-Estrogens
Anastrozole; tamoxifen
Beta-2 Agonists
Bambuterol; formoterol; salbutamol
Note: According to the NCAA, there is no complete list of banned sub-stances. For the list provided by the NCAA, go to www.ncaa.org/2015-
16-ncaa-banned-drugsan Internet live stream.
“I really hope that people can learn from 
this, learn from my mistake,” Grier said, his 
voice breaking. “Really sorry to everyone. Just really sorry.”
McElwain hugged Grier after the quarter-
back’s minute-long speech, a message given less than a half hour after his teammates heard about the news.
“Look guys, obviously this is hard,” McEl-
wain said. “I don’t want anybody in here and anybody to forget we’re in this for these young men. We feel for him. We feel his pain.”
McElwain, who said he learned the results 
of the test on Sunday, said the team embraced 
Grier with open arms, respecting his honesty 
and willingness to accept the mistake he made.
“When you have an opportunity to sit down 
and visit with him and see the remorse and the sorrow, that’s hard,” McElwain said. “That’s really hard. As a coach, but more so as a hu-man, to see someone go through that. It’s not easy. But he knows we’re here for him.”
Through six games — including ﬁ  ve straight 
starts — Grier has thrown for 1,204 yards with a Southeastern Conference-leading 65.8-percent completion percentage to help the Gators start the season 6-0 — 4-0 in conference play — and rise from unranked to No. 8 in the country.
He has thrown 10 touchdown passes against 
just three interceptions while also rushing for 116 yards and a pair of touchdowns.
Grier has excelled in SEC play, averaging 
221.8 yards per game and throwing six touch-downs to just two interceptions.
He threw four ﬁ  rst-half touchdowns in Flor-
ida’s 38-10 upset victory over then-No. 3 Ole Miss, the ﬁ  rst UF quarterback to do so since Chris Leak in 2005.
With Grier benched for the foreseeable 
future, sophomore Treon Harris will be the Gators’ starting quarterback against No. 6 LSU (5-0, 3-0 SEC) on Saturday, with Vanderbilt transfer Josh Grady serving as the backup sig-nal caller.
Harris started the season opener for the 
Gators this year and has played in four total games, going 19-of-27 for 269 yards and two touchdown passes.
Last season, Harris’ freshman year, he start-
ed the ﬁ  nal six games of the season, going 55-
of-111 for 1019 yards, with nine touchdowns 
and four interceptions and was named to the SEC All-Freshman team.
“He’s been practicing all the same stuff and 
obviously he has a different skill set,” McEl-wain said. “He can do some things with his feet that are different and he’s done a good job of extending when he’s in there.”GRIER,  from pg1Grier: 'I really hope that people can learn from this'
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Will Grier runs onto the ﬁ  eld prior to Florida's 14-9 win against Ken-
tucky on Sept. 19 at Commonwealth Stadium in Lexington, Kentucky. 
Billy Horschel
@BillyHo_Golf
GatorNation supports @willgrier_! Now we need to get behind @t5_harris and give him the same support we gave Will! #InAllKindsOfWeather
4:01 p.m. /uni2219 12 Oct 2015
        Nash Grier
@Nashgrier 
Props to Will for manning up to his mistakes, learn from it & come back stronger. Everyone can’t wait to see you on the ﬁ  eld again brother
4:50 p.m. /uni2219 12 Oct 2015
         Chad Grier
@ChadGrier_ 
Thank you for the great support of Will and our Family! Honest mistake but a mistake nonetheless. Proud of him for owning it. Jeremiah 29:11
6:18 p.m. /uni2219 12 Oct 2015
        Mason Halter
@MasonisOHIO
Nothing but respect and love for @willgrier_. Dude made an honest mistake and is sincerely sorry for it, he will come back stronger!
48m /uni2219 12 Oct 2015 
         Darious Cummings
@5BearCummings5
Praying for you Willy G!
2:42 p.m. /uni2219 12 Oct 2015 see on Friday, and the combination play of 
Dougherty Howard and other players was evident Sunday when the Gators amassed 
21 shots against LSU.
This season, the midfielders have been 
a solid source of offense for the Gators, 
despite having the highest scoring forward 
tandem in the SEC in Brooke Sharp and Sa-
vannah Jordan.
This season, the midfielders have scored  
14 of the Gators' 37 goals this season while recording 13 assists.
Slattery has found herself in the right 
place at the right time on set pieces and found the back of the net three times for the Gators.
Dougherty Howard has played in every 
game for the Gators and scored once while tallying three assists.
Smith has filled in at central defensive 
midfielder and played along side center 
backs Claire Falknor and Christen West-
phal on her way to two assists this season.
The depth has added to the production 
from the starting midfielders, allowing 
younger players to make an impact in the 
middle of the field.
Freshman Sarah Troccoli, who has four 
goals and two assists on the year, and Mayra Pelayo, who has scored a goal and 
assisted on three scoring plays this season, 
are two players that have added to the team’s chemistry in the midfield.  
“When you add in some of the younger 
players getting involved in that mix too, I think it just continues to help us,” Burleigh said.
Despite the passing rhythm the Gators seemed to have found over the weekend, 
Burleigh said they still needs to improve.
“We need to continue to work on de-
veloping chemistry between players and passing our way into situations when the defense is really packed in there,” Burleigh 
said.
“We need to make sure that we don’t just kind of launch balls into the box and 
hope for the best we’re really trying to play 
our way in.”TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
before committing a service error of her own.
The run was just what UF needed to find its 
rhythm for the match.
“It was great,” Snyder said. “It wasn’t great that 
I was missing my serve but it was awesome. ... She goes in and put maybe five great balls in the court.”
Though Rogers served the rest of the game for Sny-
der, Wise said Snyder was the most encouraging of 
the Tallahassee native.  
“What I loved was how supportive Carli was of 
Sam (Dubiel) and Lindsey and understood that we are 
only as good as our collective unit,” Wise said.
What made Rogers’ serving run even more impres-
sive is that she had to do it cold, Wise said.
“It’s not like coming off the bench in basketball 
where you have that chance at running down the court,” she said. “It’s not easy to come in and serve 
off the bench.”
With 1.23 service aces per set, Florida ranks in the 
middle of the pack in the conference.
The Gators will look to continue their two-game 
win streak on the road against Tennessee Wednesday 
at 6 p.m. on ESPNU.
The Volunteers are fresh off an upset win over 
then-No. 22 Arkansas Sunday.
Wise said the win for UT was huge for them.
"We have a chance to play a team that is real high 
right now," she said. "I know that one of their key 
players is now healthy and they were without her for 
some time. We're obviously getting Tennessee play-ing their best volleyball of the year."VOLLEY,  from pg13UF averages 1.23 service aces per set
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF defensive specialist Lindsey Rogers serves 
during Florida's 3-0 win against Auburn on Sunday.
And no one is louder than Eg-
bunu.
Florida’s big man has im-
pressed coaches with his defen-
sive instincts — covering pick 
and rolls and contesting every 
shot at the rim — as well as his offensive awareness, particularly in setting effective screens.
Egbunu has the potential to 
provide a paint presence that the Gators have sorely missed ever since the departure of center Pat-ric Young in 2014.
“He’s an amazing defensive 
force,” redshirt junior DeVon Walker said.
So much so that Egbunu 
earned a nickname through the first two days of full practices.
“Johnny Clinic,” White said. 
“Through our defensive drills, he’s really put on a clinic. ... He 
was phenomenal.”
For UF to have success, he 
may need to be. White said that 
a large amount of UF’s offense, particularly three-point shooting, will depend on how the Gators play in the paint. 
If UF can draw the defense’s attention inside, more chances will be created for shooters.
“It’s definitely an emphasis,” 
White said of three-point shoot-ing. “A lot of the threes we take will depend upon how well we score in the interior, how often we can get to the foul line, how often we convert from the foul 
line. The guys that shoot it con-
sistently in workouts and prac-tices, if they have open looks, I want them to be aggressive.”
The theme of Florida’s first 
week of practice, ignited by Eg-bunu last Monday and Tuesday, has been one of aggressive inten-sity. 
Scrimmages have been fast 
and physical, much like the ones that former coach Billy Donovan ran in the past.
“I would say that he’s sus-
taining the culture that Coach D left,” Walker said of White. “But he’s also putting his own stamp on it as well.”
And at the center has been 
Egbunu, who may be quiet off the court, but the essence of en-ergetic on it.
“Luckily,” Leon said, “I don’t 
have to guard him.”HOOPS,  from pg13Gators' offense 
depending on Egbunu
Florida's midfield has scored 14 of the team's 37 goals this year
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF midfielder Liz Slattery takes a shot during Florida's 2-1 win over LSU on Sunday at James G. Pressly Stadium. Slattery is 
a part of a midfield unit that has accounted for 13 assists this season.SOCCER,  from pg1316   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2015
CROSS COUNTRY
Alejandro Lopez
Alligator Writer
@ajlb95
As lonesome of an activity as running may 
be, competitive cross country is anything but 
that.
And following dual 12th place finishes at 
the Joe Piane Notre Dame Invitational 10 days 
ago, the top five athletes on Florida’s men’s 
and women’s cross country teams learned that lesson the hard way.
Individual efforts can only carry a team 
so far. In order to be successful, consistency must permeate the roster, regardless of A- or -B-team standing.
Coach Paul Spangler touched on the sub-
ject on Monday, calling attention to strong individual showings that didn’t translate to overall team success.
Rattling off names, Spangler commended 
his runners for their efforts in a tough meet, but concluded that although “(we) had a lot of great individual performances, a lot of per-sonal bests, obviously we’ve got to do better 
than 12th place on the men’s and women’s 
side.”
Coming into the stretch run of the season, the Gators are still looking for at-large points, which are invaluable to the squad’s national 
championship aspirations.
If the team wishes to progress and shave 
valuable seconds off of their splits, an effec-
tive practice plan is crucial.
Following the Mountain Dew Invitational 
on Sept. 19, Spangler’s runners have in-creased the intensity during training sessions. Splitting his conditioning program into two phases, Spangler installed a high-octane prac-
tice schedule, one that his athletes stuck with 
throughout the Joe Piane Invitational.
“After the home meet we transition to phase two of our training, which is higher in-tensity workouts, shorter recovery,” Spangler 
said. “I thought certainly the men did a sig-
nificantly better job at Notre Dame than they did at home.”
With Pre-Nationals and the Southeastern 
Conference Championship both looming on the horizon, it’s this all-out mentality that could help the Gators take that next step.
However, it all needs to come together on 
the terrain.
“The work’s been done,” Spangler said.“Now it’s just a matter of resting them and 
sharpening them to run fast on race day.” UF focused on improving with intense practice schedule