We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 47 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015
Abby Wambach ends career 
as most imporant US soccer player
Read sports editor Graham Hall’s column, 
pg. 13
Student speaks out in Senate
She asked Senate to support stadium dance practice, pg. 3
Doughnuts, pumpkins and smiles
Dunkin’ Donuts donated doughnuts and pumpkins to children in UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital, pg. 8An event to bookmark
Check out photos of the Friends of the Library book sale, pg. 9
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Otto, 29, breaks through his collared shirt to the “Chariots of Fire” theme song, which played during his audition piece for the 
Breakaway Burlesque troupe on Tuesday at Market Street Pub & Cabaret. Otto came unprepared because his wife and a founder of the troupe, Florence Rosé, told him the night before he would be auditioning.
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
Florence Rosé is a belly dancer.
Angela Knox is a singer and puppeteer.Labyrhina Dragon is a contact juggler.But together, the three performers — who 
all go by their stage names — have come to-
gether to form Breakaway Burlesque, Gaines-
ville’s newest burlesque troupe.
The troupe held auditions Tuesday night 
at Market Street Pub & Cabaret — where the troupe plans to host most of its shows — for new members.
Rosé, Knox and Dragon started the troupe 
because there wasn’t enough space for bur-lesque in Gainesville. The only other troupe, Mischievous Madams, is at capacity with eight members and has been the primary troupe in Gainesville for almost two years.
Rosé, 22, said the burlesque scene in Florida 
tends to be classical, with gowns and boas tra-
ditional New Orleans. She said the Gainesville 
scene is special because it offers an alternative.
“We’re big geeks; we’re into ‘nerdlesque,’” 
she said. “One of our goals of this group was to have a mixed genre approach, where we could break away from having speciﬁ  c labels and not GNV’s new burlesque troupe shakes things up
By T aylor Park
Alligator Contributing Writer
  To get into Saturday’s game-
day spirit, UF public relations 
sophomore Robyn Wilbar wrote 
“Go Gators” in blue on a minia-
ture pumpkin Tuesday.
As rain drizzled on the Plaza 
of the Americas, the Freshman 
Leadership Council corralled 
about 500 Gators under the Library West breezeway. For the first time, students painted words that described their per-
sonality — or in Wilbar’s case, 
school spirit — on 200 pump-kins, creating a “personality patch,” said Rebecca Shalloway, a 20-year-old UF graphic design junior and FLC vice chair of 
communications.
Keiran Sheridan, FLC director 
of freshman relations and a UF 
public relations sophomore, said 
she liked the personality patch 
because she wanted to give the event a sentimental twist.
“It’s really encouraging to see 
that the rain didn’t discourage 
anyone from coming out,” the 
20-year-old said.
Freshmen sipped apple cider 
while FLC members danced to 
techno music, inviting students 
to stray from their studies for a moment.
Pumpkins and 65 boxes of 
Domino’s pizza were handed out to students for free, Sheri-dan said. The event cost about 
$700.
“If Pumpkins at the Plaza can 
spark one new friendship or can 
show one individual, especially a member of UF ‘19, that they 
are a valued member of the UF 
Student Body, then I believe that we put on a very successful event,” she said. 
Wilbar, 19, said she was 
working on her American his-tory work in Library West and decided to join the event.
“I like that they had it rain or 
shine,” she said.  Personality pumpkins on PlazaCAMPUS
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Paige Fry didn’t vote in the Fall 
Student Government elections.
It wasn’t because she didn’t want 
to, but because she had no way to, 
the UF journalism freshman said. 
The 18-year-old PaCE student lives in 
Sanford, Florida, and would have to drive about two hours north to vote. As a PaCE student, she’ll take her ﬁ  rst two years of courses online.
Global Vote, a nonpartisan stu-
dent organization, is trying to put an amendment on the Spring 2016 SG ballot to allow off-campus online 
voting, said Caroline Nickerson, the 
group’s media strategist. She said schools such as University of South Florida, Florida State University and University of Central Florida have online voting, which is why she and a group of friends created the orga-nization.
“I think that online voting is the 
present — it’s not the future,” the 21-year-old said.
The UF East Asian Languages and 
Literatures and history junior said UF’s voting system is already online, UF group petitions 
for SG online voting
SEE VOTE,  PAGE 4SEE BURLESQUE,  PAGE 4“One of our goals of this group was to 
have a mixed genre approach where we 
could break away from having speciic 
labels and not have to follow the norms 
of Florida burlesque.”
Florence Rosé
belly dancer
500 Gators came to patchSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Haunting of La Casita
HLA is bringing back a special 
and so-spooky tradition, the haunted house, and everyone is invited. “The Haunting of 
La Casita” will be taking place 
Friday from 8 p.m. to midnight at La Casita. Come by, HLA dares you to.
Tango Class
Join the UF Argentine Tango Club for free tango classes at all levels. Classes will take place 
today in the common room at 
Corry Village. The beginner lesson will begin at 8 p.m. fol-lowed by an intermediate/ad-vanced lesson at 9 p.m. Be sure to dress comfortably. No special shoes are necessary. Jazz, bal-let and salsa shoes, or even just a pair of thick socks, will work 
just fine. If you have any ques-
tions, please visit us at www.facebook.com/groups/uftango/.
Group Fitness Instructor 
Training Course AuditionDo you enjoy taking group fit-ness classes through RecSports? Have you always wanted to be 
the one teaching the class? You 
now have a chance to audi-tion to take the Group Fitness Instructor Training Course. Auditions will take place Nov. 12. Be sure to register on RSconnect.recsports.ufl.edu to save your spot in the audition. 
Archives, Archaeology and 
Architecture: UF scholars discuss their work in old St. Augustine Kathleen Deagan, Herschel Shepard and Susan Parker will discuss their research in St. Augustine in a panel discussion today from 6 to 7:30 p.m. in the 
Pugh Hall Ocora. It’s sponsored 
by the George A. Smathers Libraries and the Bob Graham Center for Public Service. The event is free and open to the public.
Startup Student Theater 
Organization
Let your voice be heard. The 
Center for Arts in Medicine, the Dean of Students and Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education seek culturally di-verse students interested in so-cial justice. We are creating a student organization that uses the power of theatre and the 
arts to address current social is-
sues including intimate-partner violence and consent. Become part of the movement to change the stigma surrounding this topic, build awareness and edu-cate your peers. We provide the theater training and the oppor-
tunities; you provide your pas-
sion, talent, energy and drive. No prior theater experience is required to join. For more infor-mation, contact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu. This club meets on campus Tuesdays starting Nov. 17 from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. to rehearse and play. 
More exciting trainings and se-
lect performances are scheduled for Spring 2016.
RecSports Thriller Night
Get your freaky dance moves on at Southwest Recreation Center. Participants will be taught the dance routine from 
Michael Jackson’s music video, 
“Thriller.” Learn the moves to this classic video and other dances on Thursday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. This event is free to all current UF students. Make sure to register at RSConnect.recsports.ufl.edu Costumes are encouraged.
Ghouls, Goblins and Greeks
Junior Panhellenic at UF is in-credibly excited to invite you to this year’s “Ghouls, Goblins, and Greeks” event. Held on Sorority Row, Gainesville chil-dren can experience a fun, safe and free halloween kick-
off event. Put on your favorite 
costume and join in a night of games, activities and trick-or-treating. The event will be held from 5 to 8 p.m. The first 350 kids will receive free T-shirts. Food will be pro-vided but limited to first come, first serve. If you have any 
questions please message us at 
https://www.facebook.com/UFJuniorPanhellenic. 
GatorNights: Haunted Horror 
ReitzGatorNights will host the third annual Haunted Horror Reitz on Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at 
the Reitz Union. The event will 
feature a haunted house, a team pumpkin-carving contest and Nightmare on Beat Street fea-turing Hip Hop Collective. The event will also feature showings of the movie “The Conjuring” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium and a 
special showing of “The Rocky 
Horror Picture Show” at 10 p.m. in the Reitz Union breezeway. The night will end with free na-chos during Midnight Munchies. Guests are encouraged to wear costumes, but please no masks per university policy. This event is free for UF students with their 
Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to partici-
pate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest 
to the event.
University Gallery
“Class of (circa) ’65,” on view 
in the University Gallery at UF through Dec. 4, is the final ex-hibition celebrating the gallery’s 50th anniversary. The exhibi-tion showcases two esteemed 
UF-art alumni, Robert Fichter 
and Mernet Larsen, with paint-ings and photographs, including some from the early ‘60s taken by Jerry Uelsmann. A public re-ception will be held on Nov. 6 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. To learn more about the artists and the exhibition visit www.arts.ufl.
edu/calendar.
Fall BFA Dance Showcase
The UF School of Theatre and 
Dance is pleased to present its Fall Bachelor of Fine Arts Dance Showcase, “It happened in College.” The Fall BFA Dance Showcase features seven senior 
thesis research projects as well 
as various other pieces from the Mod UF dance ensemble and guest artist and Brazilian cho-reographer Fernando Ferraz. The Fall showcase discovers its roots through dance film, Afro-Brazilian dancing and con-temporary thought-provoking 
movement. 
The showcase is presented in two programs from today through Sunday in G-6 Studio, located in the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion on campus. Tickets are $9 and available through the University Box Office by calling 
352-392-1653 or at ticketmaster.
com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 47
HIGH  84° LOW  63°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
STUDENT BILLS AND 
RESOLUTIONS WERE ALSO 
PASSED UNANIMOUSL Y.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Jessie Wang expressed her frustration to UF 
Student Senators after being barred from danc-
ing outside Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Mon-day night.
The UF Asian American Student Union 
member spoke about student groups not being allowed to meet or dance at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium anymore at Tuesday night’s Student Senate meeting.
The University Athletic Association put 
signs outside the stadium reading, “For your safety, unauthorized group dancing/meeting activities in this area are not permitted because of vehicular trafﬁ  c.” The 20-year-old asked 
for  the Senate to support organizations, like 
AASU, that practice there.
“Students have gathered, danced and just 
been at the stadium for years and years,” Wang said.
University Police removed all groups prac-
ticing outside the stadium around 8 p.m. Mon-day, the psychology junior said. Dancers were not given an explanation or contact informa-tion.
They were forced to move to parking ga-
rages, where they had no access to water and no cover from rain or wind, she said.
The sign cites trafﬁ  c, but Wang said when vehicles have come through, dancers have been respectful and moved.
UF’s Indian Students Association and Sabor 
Latino Dance Team were also removed, she said.
“How are students supposed to feel safe and respected if they don’t even have space?” she said.
Sen. Anthony Black (Access, District D) 
said he was a member of UF’s Filipino Student Association’s dance team and urged senators to support the organizations.
“We need to give them the support they 
need,” he said.
Five student bills were also passed 
unanimously during Senate.
 $1,400 for Arab Students’ Association
 $2,463.50 for Signing Gators
 $657.50 for Bangladeshi Students’ As-sociation
 $750 for Pakistani Students’ Associa-tion
 $1,304 for CaribSA
Three resolutions were also passed 
unanimously during Senate.
 Resolution Urging Instructors at the University of Florida to Include U Mat-ter, We Care Information in All Course Syllabi
 Resolution to Authorize Student Gov-
ernment Spring 2016 Election Dates
 Resolution to Recognize the Continued 
Efforts by the University of Florida in Supporting Low-Income Students   Student urges Senate to support stadium dance practice 
John Hursh / Alligator Staff  
Jessie Wang, a 20-year-old UF psychology junior, speaks at a Student Senate meeting 
on Tuesday about the University Athletic Association banning students from dancing or meeting outside Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. She asked senators to support the Asian Ameri-can Student Union for its right to practice at the stadium.
LOCAL
By Oriana Bravo
Alligator Contributing Writer
In May 2014, the Alachua County 
Girl Scout Troop 733 received thank 
you letters from teenage girls in Ke-nya. 
The Kenyan girls were grateful for 
the kits of reusable pads and liners the troop previously sent.
“I sat there with a box of tissues 
and read all of them in a row,” said Radha Selvester, the leader of Troop 733. “It was really emotional.”
The troop is continuing its work 
on Saturday as members host a train-ing session at the Grace United Meth-odist Church for women interested in becoming Ambassadors of Women’s Health. The training will serve as a fundraiser for a trip on Dec. 17, when 11 women, including troop members, will visit Kenya to bring menstrual kits, teach the girls how to sew and assemble their own kits, and bring the tools needed to start a health-and-sewing enterprise.  
The training costs $45 to attend 
and will be hosted by Celeste Mer-gens, CEO of Days for Girls Interna-tional, a nonproﬁ  t organization dedi-cated to getting feminine products to girls all over the world with the goal of having more girls stay in school.
In many countries in Africa, girls 
try to “treat” their menstruation us-ing cardboard, mattress stufﬁ  ng or leaves, Selvester said. A lot of this involves missing school for weeks on 
end to avoid being shamed or seen.
“They stay in bed all day or they 
just don’t go to school all week,” 
said Sadie Anderson, the 16-year-old troop president. “They’re embar-rassed or ashamed of it because it’s just not talked about.”
A typical kit assembled by the 
troop includes two panties, eight lin-ers, safety pins, a bar of soap, a let-ter from a troop member, a photo of the troop, writing utensils, an extra 
plastic bag and a drawstring bag. The 
tools needed to set up the sewing en-terprise in Kenya will cost between $3,000 and $5,000, not including ﬂ  ight costs. They plan to bring about 200 kits with them.
“Girl Scout cookies sell them-
selves, but it’s deﬁ  nitely harder to get donations for this,” Anderson said. 
 Alachua County Girl Scout Troop raises money for Kenya triphave to follow the norms of Florida 
burlesque.”
Sally Dash, one of Rosé’s men-
tors and a member of Mischievous Madams, said she was excited to 
have the new troupe in town.
“The more people that are in-
volved, the more people that will 
come and see it, and the more ideas you’ll have in the shows,” she said.
Breakaway Burlesque will have 
a mix of genders and identities, Knox said.
“We’ve had interest from men, 
which is great because so many burlesque groups have been gen-der-divided,” she said. “We really want a mix.”
Vyxsin Drake was one of three 
people who auditioned Tuesday night. She danced to “Suit and Tie” by Justin Timberlake and Jay Z, and she wore a black dress and 
pearl bowtie.
Drake started pursuing bur-
lesque about a month ago. Her 
stage persona helps her deal with her anxiety, she said.
“When I was in high school, 
Vyxsin was my online identity for writing and chat groups, and it always stuck with me because it 
represents the part of me that is 
calm and confident and sexy and fun,” she said. “When I started burlesque, I needed a name that represented that.”
The troupe is also accepting 
video auditions and will arrange more auditions for interested indi-viduals who message Breakaway 
Burlesque on Facebook.
The troupe’s debut show is Jan. 
15 at Market Street Pub & Cabaret. 
but not for off-campus students. With online 
voting, SG could still keep on-campus locations.
To get the amendment on the ballot, the 
group is hoping to collect 2,500 signatures, said Austin Young, a co-founder of Global Vote. The petition got 350 signatures on Monday, the first day collecting them.
Off-campus online voting will allow PaCE, Innovation Academy, online students and stu-dents studying abroad the opportunity to vote, Young, 19, said. He thought students would be more receptive to a non-SG-affiliated group.
“We believe it should really be a nonparti-
san issue,” the UF political science sophomore 
said.
Oliver Telusma, an IA political science soph-
omore, wrote in an email that IA students have 
to be enrolled in a minimum of six credits and be in Gainesville to vote. He said while the need to be on campus is an issue, the credit require-ment is also a barrier.
“I was able to vote not only because I lived 
in Gainesville during this past election cycle but was enrolled in a minimum of six credit hours,” the 19-year-old said.
PaCE students’ inability to vote online is a 
lack of representation for them, Fry said.
“There’s a bias in the system,” she said. 
“We shouldn’t have to live in Gainesville to have a vote.”
PaCE students should also be made aware 
of SG elections and party platforms, she said. Living in Sanford, she received little informa-tion about elections.
The amendment would make availability of 
online voting up to the Student Body, Nicker-son said.
“I think students should make the choice,” 
she said.
She said UF needs to catch up to other uni-
versities that have off-campus online voting.
“FSU has it and we don’t, which I think is 
depressing,” she said. “Our biggest rival has online voting. We need to catch up.”4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Founders of Breakaway Burlesque (from left) Angela Knox, 29, 
Labyrhina Dragon, 24, and Florence Rosé, 22, express interest in Vyxsin Drake’s performance during the troupe’s auditions on Tues-day at Market Street Pub & Cabaret. Drake, 24, tossed her gloves on the floor after whipping them off during her sultry dance. 
VOTE,  from pg1The group has 350 signatures and is hoping to collect 2,500BURLESQUE,  from pg1Auditions being held for 
the mixed-gender troupeCAMPUS
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
Museumgoers will travel thou-
sands of years into the past tonight  
with locally brewed beers in hand.
Drink with the Extinct!, a fund-
raiser that combines beer with his-
tory, will be held at 7 p.m. at the 
Florida Museum of Natural History. Participants must be at least 21 years old to attend, Kara Schwartz, the event’s organizer, wrote in an email.
The proceeds will go toward 
funding butterfly gardens at local schools, she said.
More than $6,000 has been raised 
through ticket sales and sponsor-ships. All 150 tickets cost $25 for museum members and $30 for non-
members, which sold out Oct. 21.
Swamp Head Brewery, First Mag-
nitude Brewing Company and Al-
ligator Brewing will give free beer samples to attendees.
According to UF regulations, the 
sale of alcohol is limited to certain buildings, which includes the mu-seum. Drinking games are not al-
lowed. today’s fundraiser is not a UF 
student event, Schwartz said.
“As local businesses, they are in-
vested in their community and mak-ing a positive impact,” she said.
Laura Predny, a close friend of 
Schwartz and a museum patron, said she remembered when Schwartz was brainstorming the idea for the fundraiser months ago.  
“She was just kinda throwing the 
ideas out there,” Predny said.
She said she is most excited about 
exploring the First Colony exhibit.
“I’m a huge fan of the Natural 
History Museum,” she said. 
UF nursing senior Valentina Lang 
said she wanted to go to the event because she loves beer.
The 21-year-old saw the name of 
the fundraiser online and clicked she was going. If it weren’t for a birthday dinner on the same night, she said she would attend.
“I wouldn’t miss an opportunity 
to drink beer under a mammoth for just anything,” she said.Museum invites locals to drink beer
THE SPEAKER WILL SHARE 
NONPROFIT EXPERIENCE.
By Oriana Bravo
Alligator Contributing Writer
    When Celeste Mergens went on a Christian mission 
trip to a Kenyan orphanage in 2008, she found many of the young girls didn’t know what menstruation was.
Mergens, founder and CEO of international nonprofit 
organization Days for Girls International, will speak at the Bob Graham Center for Public Service at 6 p.m. Thursday.  She will talk about her experience at the or-phanage and how she turned her passion for helping women into positive change.
Days for Girls creates workshops and care packages 
of sustainable feminine-hygiene products, which in-clude pads and panty liners.  The organization sends the packages to girls in countries where feminine hygiene is stigmatized, said Shelby Taylor, digital communications director for the Bob Graham Center.  The organization’s mission is to give every woman in the world easy access 
to sustainable feminine-hygiene products by 2020.
“It’s important for young people, if they see an issue 
and know it’s not right, to take action and do something 
about it,” Taylor said. “That’s what (Mergens) did, and she’s made a world of difference for many girls.”
UF family, youth and community sciences junior 
Ginnie Lin recently did a class project about sustainable feminine hygiene.  
 “When I saw that Celeste Mergens was coming, and 
I had just researched Days for Girls, I got so excited,” the 21-year-old said. “This is such a cool talk for everyone to know about.”
The talk is free and open to the public.Speaker: Menstruation in Kenya  
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Matheson Museum Board of Di-
rectors voted 9-2 Tuesday evening against accepting a controversial confederate statue as a museum ex-hibit.
“We had a somewhat spirited dis-
cussion about accepting the statue and ultimately the decision was to refuse the statue,” said Bob Acker-man, a member of the board.
Ackerman said the members dis-
cussed the benefits and drawbacks of the museum accepting the statue but decided against it.
“We had a fairly unattractive 
draft agreement that was sent over by the county,” he said. He added the museum was worried about hav-
ing to raise the funds to move the 
statue and “that the museum would probably be obligated to contextual-ize the statue… (by) adding some more statues or exhibits or some-thing that would broaden the histori-cal perspective.”
In September, the County Com-
mission voted 3-2 to relocate the 
statue, which is currently in down-
town Gainesville, to the museum us-ing public funds. The museum never agreed to accept the statue.
Jesse Arost, a 29-year-old UF 
alumnus who helped push the move-ment to relocate the statue, said he was surprised by the decision.
“Oh my,” he said when informed of the board’s decision. “I guess all I can say is it’s frustrating.”
Alachua County Commissioner 
Chair Charles Chestnut laughed when he heard the decision. 
“If they don’t want to accept it, 
I guess the commission will have to bring it back up and deal with it at a later date,” Chestnut added.
In the meantime, the statue will 
remain where it currently stands. 
Steven Ingram, the public affairs 
officer for the Florida League of the South, has previously criticized the commission’s decision to relocate the statue.
“It’s obvious that they not only 
want to replace us as a species and distinct people, but our history as well,” Ingram said.
Matheson declines hosting statueA UF professor discovered pos-
sible treatments for a nut addic-
tion.
Roger Papke, a UF College of 
Medicine researcher and profes-
sor, said the betel nuts are danger-
ous and can cause oral cancer. He found that people who regularly chew them become addicted to them.
“This is an insidious and en-
demic problem affecting more peo-ple than a tsunami,” Papke said. 
Natives of India, parts of Chi-
na and Southeast Asia have been chewing betel nuts for thousands of years and suffer from damaged immune systems, according to Papke’s journal in the Public Li-brary of Science.
He said the question people 
should be asking about the nut addiction isn’t what it is, but why 
people are addicted to it.
Papke and his research team 
discovered betel nuts affect the same nicotine receptors in peo-
ple’s brains as cocaine and ciga-rettes, and they hijack the natural rewards system. It controls the release of the dopamine chemical, 
which makes people happy.
Medicines, like the nicotine-
replacement drug Chantix, are 
already being developed for betel nut-addiction treatment. These drugs fill in the gap nicotine leaves in the brain and helps the with-drawals.
“For the first time ever, this 
suggests an approach for treating betel nut addiction,” Papke said.
Papke said he wants to edu-
cate people about the possibility of treating the addiction in the same way tobacco addictions are treat-ed.
“We need to get our thoughts 
out of the clouds,” Papke said. “Just 
because it’s a third-world problem 
doesn’t mean we shouldn’t react.” 
- Kendaline WattWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
UF researchers examine bats all 
year, not just around Halloween.
Holly Ober, a UF wildlife ecol-
ogy and conservation associate 
professor, found the rarest bat species, the Florida Bonneted, in South Florida. 
This Fall, she’s analyzing 
where they live.
Ober said she has always been 
interested in the Florida bonneted bat, but there wasn’t any money 
to do research until the bat was 
listed as an endangered species in 2013.
The bat lives only in South 
Florida. Ober said she and the other UF researchers are using technology to listen to the noise the bats make to track down their exact locations.
“Finding out where they live is 
important for conservation,” Ober said. “Bats are very important in controlling insects, and without them, we would have a very dif-
ferent world with so many more 
buys flying around.”
Robert McCleery, a UF wildlife 
ecology and conservation associ-
ate professor, works with Ober.  
He said his research entails trying to understand the bonneted bat’s distribution throughout South Florida.
McCleery said there is concern 
for these bats because there aren’t any natural roosts for them to hang on at night. Recently, they 
were found living under roofs and 
palm trees.
“They are a Florida endemic 
and part of Florida’s natural heri-tage,” he said. “And there is very 
little known about this bat.”
- Sara PerlmanUF professor discovers treatment plan for nut UF professor researches South Florida’s rare batThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Gender-neutral pronouns and evolving language
CNN recently published an opinion piece 
by Columbia University linguist John Mc-Whorter entitled “Goodbye to ‘he’ and ‘she’ and hello to ‘ze’?” which dealt with the state of gender-neutral pronouns in 
the English language.
Admittedly, the title was a prime example of 
click-bait, as his piece simply described processes of language change. McWhorter also considered the possibility of the inadvertent introduction of a gender-neutral third singular pronoun, like “ze” or even the semantic broadening of “they.”
The title of the piece provoked quite a ﬁ  restorm, and all 
of the top comments on CNN’s Facebook post of the column 
were vehemently opposed to, and even affronted by, this no-
tion. Two comments stood out: “I don’t think we need to erase pronouns just because a few transgenders are confused about their identity,” and “Why don’t we just ban the use of language altogether. Then we can all grunt our way to politi-cal correctness.”
Now, before one gets too outraged, it is crucial to high-
light that McWhorter did not argue in favor of the imple-mentation of a gender-neutral pronoun, and I write further, 
with great certainty, any descriptive linguist worth his/her/
zir/hus/their salt would never do such a thing.
McWhorter’s premise in his column is simply that as lan-
guage changes over time, it is feasible to assert that new, nonbinary conceptions of gender could eventually be reﬂ  ect-ed by modiﬁ  ed pronoun systems as the “bland opposition between ‘he’ and ‘she’ seems increasingly antique, and even insulting, to many,” in his words.
The reaction to the column evidences a lack of awareness 
as to what linguistics is and what the motivations of linguists are. In a broad conceptualization, linguistics focuses on the link between sound and meaning, which is to say how ar-bitrary combinations of arbitrary sets of sounds can convey meaning. A fundamental distinction in linguistics is between descriptive and prescriptive approaches. Linguistics opposes the notion that any variety of language is inherently “better” than another and as such would never prescribe a course of linguistic behavior. With all due respect to our respective English teachers, their notions of gram-matical correctness were mainly prescriptive and did not reﬂ  ect language as it is used in the real world. Rather than fall into the trap of linguistic 
tyranny, linguists are committed to observing and 
identifying what is possible and manifested in the languages of the world as well as how these pat-terns can be applied in real-world contexts.
With reference to the subject at hand, it has 
been widely observed that many speakers struggle to ﬁ  nd the right, or even adequate, pronoun to 
describe individuals who do not embody the traditional bi-nary concept of gender or people who are in the process of 
transitioning. This reﬂ  ects the basic notion of agreement: If 
the features of “he” (masculine, singular, third person) just don’t align with a subject we are referencing in speech who might traditionally be called “he,” then the disconnect gives pause and forces us to search for another word.
Within English, interestingly, all pronouns are gender-
neutral except for those of the third-person singular: he, his, him, she, her and hers. Within colloquial English, there is a well-documented tendency to employ the third plural “they” 
and “their” as a third singular, as in the sentence “Where is 
the guest? They are outside.” We understand the “they” of the sentence is one person, but we cringe at the sound of “they is outside.”
At this point, one might expect some instructional manual 
to inform the reader what the most expedient and politically correct choice is. Unfortunately, for the next many years, lin-guists will be observing speech communities in the U.S. to see what word, if any, emerges to ﬁ  ll this void.
After all, the process of using language to describe and 
engage with the world and other people is an intrinsic part of our humanity, and to interfere with this process is crass and crude. So sit back and enjoy the ride, since the English you are speaking today won’t exist tomorrow.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics master’s 
student. His column appears on Wednesdays.As far as ethics 
and morals go, we 
need to reﬂ  ect 
Following national outcry, the FBI and the Department of Justice announced Tuesday that they have opened up an investigation into the violent arrest of a black high-school student by a white sheriff’s deputy in Columbia, South Carolina. Ofﬁ  cer Ben Fields arrested the student after force-
fully yanking her out of her desk by wrapping his arm around her neck. Having ﬂ  ipped the student and her desk, Fields then dragged her to the front of the classroom. This came after she refused to leave her seat and had already ignored requests from her teacher and other school administrators to do so. A second student, Niya Kenny, 18, was arrested soon after for taping the encounter. Her arrest was justiﬁ  ed under the premise that she was “disturbing school.”
This announcement represents a remarkably quick turn-
around for an incident that occurred only one day before. How-ever, given the strong evidence against the offending ofﬁ  cer in the form of several videos taken during the arrest, one would be hard pressed to deny any wrongdoing occurred.
Initially, we believed Fields’ brutality was solely another in-
stance of K-12 students being needlessly criminalized. As we’ve discussed previously within this very space, American students as young as 6 have to worry about being arrested lest they “pass gas” or throw a temper tantrum. Given our country’s proud his-
tory, in both our schools and our homes, of intimidating young 
men and women with force, it doesn’t seem unreasonable to conclude that Ofﬁ  cer Fields felt dehumanization was the most appropriate response to nonviolent obstinacy. On these “merits” alone, the scenario is nauseating.
But then something interesting happened: more details about 
Ofﬁ  cer Fields emerged. As reported by the “New York Daily News,” Fields assaulted Army veteran Carlos Martin nearly 10 years ago following a noise complaint. Martin said Fields 
slammed him onto the pavement and proceeded to pepper-spray 
him after addressing the ofﬁ  cer as “dude.”
After Fields told his partner to “get her black ass,” with ‘her’ 
referring to Martin’s then-wife, Tashiana Rogers, Martin threat-ened Fields with a lawsuit. Fields responded with the following: “I’m glad Johnny Cochran is dead.”
So, not only does Fields ﬁ  nd brutalizing young women ac-
ceptable, but he’s a racist to boot. Even though our country has been ideologically torn on the subject of racially motivated police 
brutality, we can all agree, at the least, this kind of behavior has 
no place in our schools… right?
Wrong. Some have come to the defense of Fields’ actions 
Monday, with many referring to the student he arrested with ad-jectives like “unruly.” These same individuals seem to think the student in question had it coming. There has even been praise of Fields’ so-called remarkable restraint in NOT drawing his gun or Taser.
If it were considered prestigious or respectable to write para-
graphs consisting of nothing but four-letter words and exhausted invocations of religious ﬁ  gures, this would probably be the edito-rial to do it in. 
It is NOT OK to direct violence at someone — a high-school 
student, no less! — who poses no threat to your physical being. It is NOT acceptable to lessen and dehumanize people because they have a different skin color. It’s 2015! Man walked on the moon nearly 50 years ago, we’ve been able to treat HIV and AIDS with affordable medicine and we can watch porn on devices we keep 
in our pockets. America, get your shit together.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
It’s been awhile since any of us have 
walked down a kindergarten hallway. Yet, across the country and the span of time, and as long as coloring and ﬁ  nger painting have been staples in 
the golden years of our lives, so has ﬁ  n-ishing the daunting sentence, “When I grow up, I want to be…”
Back then, the common answers were 
president, astronaut, cowboy or maybe even a cowboy astronaut. The bottom line is almost all of us had high aspirations — we set the bar high for our future selves. Yet somewhere down the line the end of that sentence has changed, some-
times to less ambitious goals. Along with learning 
to read and tying our own shoes, we are also taught that being the next president of the U.S. or a doctor who will cure a disease is out of our reach.
One of the most famous TED Talks of all time, 
“Do Schools Kill Creativity?” by Sir Ken Robinson, has the overall argument that we are “educated out of creativity.” More than that, it may not be educa-tion pushing us to ﬁ  t one mold of what an educated 
person is. There is such a thing as “wrong” math, 
and it is feasibly impossible to teach every student to develop ideas the same way no matter how hard a teacher or professor tries. Our overall lack of imagi-nation is not affected by the way we are taught as we grow up, but what we are told about our perfor-mance in learning. Education isn’t killing our cre-ativity: It is the tests we take that kill our aspirations.
The difference between kindergarteners and any-
one older is no one tells 6-year-olds they are ﬂ  at-out wrong. But by junior high school, we have tests and exams to let us know how much we don’t actually know. The bad test grades come ﬂ  uttering in earlier for some, but the biggest wake-up call for many of us comes when we enter college. Everyone wants to be a doctor until the exam scores for a chemistry exam get released. There are many Hemingways and Rowlings among us until they receive feedback on 
their writing.
I am a freshman, so I can only speak personally of one round of midterms and half a se-
mester of exams. However, this isn’t a backlash for my struggles in my exams; I haven’t been doing half bad. I’m writ-ing this because I thought the nonsense 
studying was going to end once I gradu-
ated high school. With grades heavily fortiﬁ  ed on exams as the “be-all and end-all” of my college existence, I ﬁ  nd myself studying for points and not concepts. I couldn’t care less about whether I know 
what I’m doing.What matters most is if I’m bubbling in the correct educated guess. Worst of all, I had to cut down on activities I can actually gain something 
from, such as reading classics and working on Roset-
ta Stone to learn Spanish, so I can memorize gradient vectors in order to not fail my classes.
The good thing is many industries now look else-
where when it comes to their top concerns when hir-ing potential employees. According to an article pub-lished by The Atlantic in August 2014, The Chronicle of Higher Education conducted a survey with em-ployees asking them to complete a 100-point system 
questioning what they looked at most when hiring 
college graduates.  Overall, GPA averaged only 8 points while internships and employment during col-lege averaged 23 and 21 points, respectively.
So, the mentalities of industries have changed 
while those of colleges have not. Students are forced to spend immense amounts of time stressing and preparing for exams that businesses relatively don’t care much about. Colleges need to catch up with 
today’s times when exam scores shouldn’t be what 
lead students to a successful path, because exams can point us in the wrong direction. Instead of cram-ming hours upon hours for stress-inducing exams, we could be using that time doing something else, like actually learning something that pushes us to become better than we are today. Perhaps we might come closer to reaching those dreams we’ve had since kindergarten.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF engineering freshman. 
His column appears on Wednesdays.
Colleges don’t kill dreams — midterm scores doColumn
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org The country is currently in the middle of pri-mary season, when mem-
bers of the nation’s two major parties are ﬁ  ghting to determine who will be running in the 2016 general election.
Primaries are ar-
ranged in such a way that politi-cians on both sides try to appeal 
to their party’s base. For the 
Democrats, this means environ-mentalists, labor unions and mi-norities. 
The Republicans, however, 
are tasked with winning over the elite business class and evangelical Christians.
This process gets candidates 
a place on the ticket but forces them into positions that alienate them from undecided voters. 
It’s the people in the middle 
who will decide who comes out on top in the general election. As a result, voters should focus on choosing good general elec-tion candidates over good pri-
mary candidates.
Republicans: Rubio/Kasich
Sen. Marco Rubio is the best 
choice for a presidential nomi-nee the Republican Party has.
Most importantly, he is a sit-
ting senator from Florida, a vi-tal state due to its electoral-vote value. 
The state has 29 electoral 
votes and is a battleground state due to the population blend of voters in the north, who identify closer to Republican values, and voters in the south, who lean more toward the left. A Republi-can win in Florida in the general election would make winning 
the presidency very difﬁ  cult for 
the Democrats.
Republicans need to expand 
their voter base to more than just white conservatives. They need to achieve this by aggres-sively going after the Latino vote. 
A Latino Decisions poll from 
2014 shows immigration is by far the most important issue to Latino Americans.
Rubio has a better chance of 
winning the Latino vote than any other Republican in the race. Immigration has always been closely associated with this son of Cuban immigrants.
Immigration is a major issue 
for the GOP, and Rubio is its best bet.
For a vice presidential can-
didate, the Republicans need to go with somebody who can bring the party back toward the middle once the presidential nominee has been decided. That 
person needs to be Ohio Gov. 
John Kasich.
Kasich took an open-minded 
stance in regard to marriage equality, he expanded Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act and his political career is very appealing to people who remain undecid-ed going into the 2016 election. Kasich is also very popular in his 
state of Ohio. The gov-
ernor has a 62-percent approval rate, accord-ing to an October 2015 Quinnipiac University poll. This cannot be ignored, considering 
Ohio currently possesses 18 cru-cial electoral votes.
If Rubio can carry Florida 
and Kasich wins Ohio, victory would be almost certain for the Republican Party.
Democrats: Clinton/WebbThe only two legitimate can-
didates still standing on the left are Sen. Bernie Sanders and former-Secretary of State Hillary 
Clinton. Clinton is clearly the 
candidate the Democrats need to go with, primarily due to how unelectable Sanders is.
The Vermont senator is a 
self-described democratic social-ist. But Americans don’t elect socialists. The word itself brings up thoughts of communism and 
the former Soviet Union.
A 2015 Gallup poll surveying 
the types of candidates Ameri-
cans would vote for showed they would be least likely to vote for a socialist.
If the Democrats were to 
nominate Sanders, he would lose. Not only would he lose, but 
the Democrats would look ex-
tremely foolish in even thinking that he would stand a chance.
Clinton can raise the funds 
needed to become president in today’s America, and she has name recognition. She is the only choice the Democrats have to win, and it’s time they 
stopped ﬁ  ghting it.
Like the Republicans, the 
vice presidential pick is where 
the Democratic Party should try to pick up moderates. 
The best choice to get mod-
erate voters to go blue on the ballot next November is former-Virginia Sen. Jim Webb.
Webb is a Vietnam War vet-
eran who has been part of the Washington political system. He ended his bid for the Democratic nomination saying, “I fully ac-cept that my views on many is-sues are not compatible with the power structure and base of the Democratic Party.”
This would bring another di-
mension to Clinton’s presiden-tial bid. Webb will be able to sell himself as the person who will reach across the aisle and won’t blindly follow whatever the party tells him.
Both parties have an op-
portunity to control the White 
House next year. The question 
is, will primary voters be smart enough to ﬁ  gure it out? 
A version of this column by 
Brent Kennedy originally ran in the Kansas State Collegian.Ticket options for 
presidential successUWire
Brent 
Kennedy
UWire
8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
Instead of sleeping in his hospital 
bed, 9-year-old Aahren Fraser was 
decorating plastic pumpkins with his mom Tuesday morning.
He stuck stickers, smeared glue 
and carefully placed a fake finger on top of the pumpkin as he and other children at UF Health Shands Chil-dren’s Hospital attended the Pump-kins for Munchkins party sponsored by Dunkin’ Donuts.
Dunkin’ Donuts donated six doz-
en doughnuts, 250 munchkin dough-nut holes, coffee, hot chocolate and 
plastic pumpkins for children and 
their parents to enjoy and decorate, said Billy Southworth, the general manager for the Dunkin’ Donuts on Northwest 13th Street.
Fraser said he was happy to have something to do besides being an-noyed by doctors.
“They touch my IV and they 
wake me up,” he said while putting glitter glue on his pumpkin.
This is the second year Dunkin’ 
Donuts hosted the event, which also happens at children’s hospitals in Jacksonville, Tampa and Orlando, said Ricki Black, a coordinator of special events for Dunkin’ Donuts.
“It’s all about the family and 
community,” she said. “We were so happy we were asked back.”
She said they donated about 30 
plastic pumpkins and delivered ex-tras to children who could not make it out of their hospital beds. This year, there were twice as many vol-unteers.
“We don’t mind taking the time 
out of our schedules to come here,” Southworth said.
Kids came in and out of the event as they were able to, said Julie Dan-iel, an employee with the Child Life department at Shands. The pump-
kins were brought to the children 
who couldn’t leave their rooms.
“We try to get as many in here as 
we can,” Daniel said.
She said the Child Life depart-
ment hosts daily events for the kids during holiday seasons to keep them entertained and distracted.
Julian Estadella rolled his IV into 
the room to decorate a pumpkin for his favorite holiday.
“I was bored,” said the 10-year-
old, who was transferred to Shands from Ocala on Monday night. He decorated his pumpkin with pirate stickers.  
Southworth said it was nice to be 
able to give back locally. “It’s just 
good for the community, and it’s 
good to give back,” he said.Doughnuts, pumpkins and smiles
BELOW:
Nehimiah Savage, 2, eats a frosted doughnut after decorating a 
pumpkin during Dunkin’ Donuts’ Pumpkins for Munchkins event at UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital on Tuesday. Nehimiah’s mother, Lakisha Savage, said they had fun at the event.
ABOVE:
Children and parents gather around an arts-and-crafts table to decorate pumpkins with Sprinkles, the Dunkin’ Donuts mascot, on Tuesday. Dunkin’ Donuts donated about 30 pumpkins for kids to participate in a no-carve pumpkin activity.
RIGHT:
Aahren George, 9, decorates his pumpkin at Dunkin’ Donuts’ Pumpkins for Munchkins event. “I decorated my pumpkin with a bunch of fingers, bunch of eyes and a mustache, ” Aahren said. “I’m going to name my pumpkin Skull Head!”
Photos by Andrea Cornejo/ Alligator Staff WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
LEFT:
Part-time psychology teacher Suzanne Schultz organizes books during the Friends of 
the Library book sale, located on North Main Street, on Tuesday. All proceeds from the event will go toward community literacy programs and the Alachua County Li-brary District. “Hats are my thing, ” the second-year volunteer said. “I try to wear a different hat every day I’m here. ”
BELOW:
Book dealer Rick Nostrand and Neita Nostrand, who is retired, fill their shopping cart with books from different genres on Tuesday. Rick has attended the Friends of the Library book sale twice a year for six years. The sale started with more than 500,000 books, and on Tuesday, all the books were half price.
An event to bookmarkCRIME
By Daniela Bulla
Alligator Contributing Writer
Shana Call often receives calls 
from her old neighbors about her 
husband’s new card game.
With cards revolving around 
neighbors who play loud music 
or leave their trash out for weeks, 
they’re concerned they were the inspiration, Call said.
“We just answer, ‘No com-
ment,’” Call said, laughing.
Cul-De-Sac Conquest is the 
card game in question, and Call’s husband, Chuck, a 46-year-old 
UF business administration se-
nior, is one of the game’s design-ers working to fund it. 
The developers started a Kick-
starter to fund the creation of the 
game, and it surpassed the initial 
goal of $10,000 in three days af-ter its Oct. 15 launch. They said they now hope to raise an addi-
tional $10,000 by Nov. 14.
Andrew Birkett, a UF market-
ing junior, is the Cul-De-Sac Con-
quest creator and CEO of Atheris Games, a card-game company he 
started in his first year of college.
The purpose of the card game is to annoy the other players in 
the most creative way, said Barry Congressi, the chief technology 
officer at Atheris Games and one 
of the game’s designers. 
Each player chooses a neigh-
bor with a rage meter and then 
deals cards — playing loud mu-
sic, having a loud dog —  to make their opponents’ meters fill up and “annoy” them out of the neighborhood.
“My favorite card (in the 
game) is the one where someone builds a squirrel playground in their front yard,” Congressi said.
He said this card is based on a 
true story.
The idea for the game came 
after Birkett, Cul-De-Sac Con-quest creator, participated in the 
“What’s Your Big Idea?” competi-
tion hosted by the UF Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation and the College of Business.
He asked his old roommate, 
Congressi, and his friend Chuck Call to help him create a game for the competition.
The team worked on a differ-
ent game during the competition and left with additional knowl-edge of the gaming industry and feedback from high-level judges 
and entrepreneurs. This led to 
the creation of Cul-De-Sac, said Nola Miyasaki, the executive di-rector for outreach and incuba-tion at the entrepreneurship and 
innovation center.
“I think they’ve hit all their 
milestones so far, and they will 
be very successful,” Miyasaki 
said.
People can pre-order the 
games through Kickstarter for ex-
clusive package expansions, such as the Not Safe For Work cards.
“One of our biggest challenges 
was going up to people we never met before and asking them to try our game,” Chuck Call said. “It 
seems kind of silly (now) that we 
were so nervous at first.”UF students and GNV locals stack up
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a 
local man Monday evening after police said he approached two 
people with a pair of knives.
At about 6:35 p.m. Monday, 
Otha Brown Jr., 54, stepped out-
side his house, located in the 
3500th block of SW 29th Terrace, 
and rubbed two large knives to-gether. He said he would “slice and dice,” which caused two peo-ple to run inside and lock their 
door, according to a police report.
Earlier that day, police filed a 
sworn complaint on Brown for 
exposing sexual organs. 
The people told officers they 
thought he grabbed the knives after hearing them talk about the complaint, according to the re-port.
When police arrived and told 
Brown to put his hands on his head, he instead curled his arm into his stomach, according to the report.
Officers then forced Brown 
into handcuffs and talked with 
the people, one of whom said, 
“I’m very terrified of him,” ac-cording to the report.
Brown told police the knives 
were for a 
chicken he 
planned to 
cook.
Since 2008, 
Brown has been found guilty on four charges of bat-
tery and three charges of resisting 
an officer, according to Alachua 
County court records.
Police arrested Brown on two 
charges for aggravated battery 
with a deadly weapon without 
intent to kill and one charge for resisting an officer without vio-lence.
Authorities took Brown to the 
Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $205,000 bond.Man arrested for 
aggrevated battery
“One of our biggest 
challenges was going up to 
people we never met before 
and asking them to try 
our game. It seems kind of 
silly (now) that we were so 
nervous at first.”
Chuck Call
game designerBrown
Card game to raise funds
Photos by Andrea Cornejo / Alligator StaffWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Unfurnished room with private bathroom in 4/4 at Gainesville Place Apartments.Close to UF with bus every 20 minutes$454 mo.Free router and modem. 727-203-1261   11-3-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLCReal Estate Services“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-30-15-15-5
Herring Realty3BR/1.5BA HOUSE on 1 ACRE. Located be-tween Trenton & Belle. Must see to appreci -
ate. $79,900. Call Lois Litchfield at 352-354-5341    11-2-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified9 Bicycles 1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       10-30-15-10-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
is now hiring cooks, pizza makers, servers, 
and delivery drivers. Apply in person at 5 SE 
2nd Ave.    11-6-15-12-14
Hiring Insurance Licensed Sales Producer
Active 4-40 or 2-20 License RequiredEmail Resume to JudyLocascio@Allstate.com     10-30-15-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Gainesville Modern
Seeks developer for new website.
Prefer flat fee for initial rollout. Submit pro-
posal w/ references to mike@mhastings.com.    
11-2-15-5-14
The MIND Study is looking for men and 
women ages 20-30 and 60+. We will com-pare both age groups regarding brain func-tion and how it may contribute to our physi-cal strength, energy and well being. Only 3 visits to our clinic. Compensation provided. Free Parking. Call 352-273-5919    11-10-15-10-14
ACROSS
1 Political
statistician Silver
5 Sell for
9 Learn
13 Lacking company15 “__ way!”16 Indian
mausoleum city
17 Dodge Chargers,
e.g.
19 Doesn’t keep20 Rescue squad pro21 Gerald of Tara22 Vision-related23 Take __ the waist25 Hyundai’s home27 House of Henry
VIII
29 Camera named
for a Greek
goddess
30 One of the
Canaries: Abbr.
31 Cyber Monday
events
33 Previously
34 Backs (out)35 Warm underwear38 Edges41 Notre Dame’s
Parseghian
42 Had a bug45 Dashboard
Confessionalrock genre
46 Painter’s deg.
47 Root beer brand
49 Easter season
feast
54 1492 caravel55 “Peace out,
Pablo!”
56 Like ham in some
omelets
58 Little one
59 Future flower60 Shindig by the
shore, and a hint
to the starts of17-, 25-, 35- and49-Across
62 Run out of steam
63 Smallest of the
litter
64 Derisive look65 Rose support66 Rich rocks67 Root beer brand
DOWN
1 “Whatever you
want”2 Fund-raising
target
3 Food truck order
4 Wedding RSVP
card, e.g.
5 Chocoholic’s
favorite tree?
6 Hokkaido seaport
7 Battlefield board
game
8 Prof’s aides9 Marx playing with
strings
10 Narcissistic
indulgence
11 Most pretentious
12 Imps
14 Gp. with the
album “SecretMessages”
18 Uncertain
responses
22 Signs off on24 Trucker’s expense26 To-do28 Stutz
contemporary
32 Huge mess33 1977 Steely Dan
album
34 Country singer
K.T.
36 Awesome quality,
as of mountains37 Bethesda-based
medical researchorg.
38 Lunches and
brunches
39 Cry of success40 “Tartuffe”
playwright
43 Horn of Africa
nation
44 Signified46 Submissions to
eds.48 Nymph chasers50 Data transmitter51 “Cheers”
waitress
52 Savings and
checking: Abbr.
53 Slangy
affirmative
57 Around-the-horn
MLB plays
60 Good bud61 “Wait, there’s
more”
By Al Hollmer and C.C. Burnikel©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/28/1510/28/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, October 28, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. MOVIES: What kind of fish is 
Dory in “Finding Nemo”?
2. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which U.S. 
president served the shortest term?
3. HISTORY: What is the earliest 
written system of laws known to us?
4. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: What 
20th-century comedian once said, 
“Politics is the art of looking for trou-ble, finding it everywhere, diagnosing it incorrectly and applying the wrong 
remedies”?
5. GEOGRAPHY: What is the larg-
est country in South America?
6. LANGUAGE: What does it mean 
when someone “bloviates”? 
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: How 
long is the Tour de France bicycle 
race?
8. FIRSTS: Who was the first woman 
appointed to the U.S. Supreme Court?
9. U.S. STATES: Which state is 
known as “The Pine Tree” state?
10. TELEVISION: Which Muppet 
character lives in a garbage can on “Sesame Street”?
Answers
1. Blue tang2. William Henry Harrison served 
only one month in office.
3. The Code of Hammurabi (Babylo-
nian) was inscribed around 1750 B.C.
4. Groucho Marx 5. Brazil
6. Speaks pompously at length
7. 23 days covering about 2,200 
miles
8. Sandra Day O’Connor9. Maine10. Oscar the Grouch
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 26, 2015 King Features Weekly Service14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab and follow the directions.    11-13-15-12-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-73-15Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-
time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing 
available. Barn Family Program to mitigate 
board and rent. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   
10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
22 Tickets
FOR SALE
4 Seats for FL vs. GA,
Jax football game. Sec. 122, Row A. 
Price: $440 for all. Call 352-494-4882    10-
30-15-3-22
Need 7 UF/UGA Tix - Together
Text 904-201-9665
Two Rows Together Acceptable
As Long As All 7 Are Together    10-29-
15-2-22
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? 
Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip ar-rangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found sec-tion. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
20 Event Notices 24 Pets 15 Services 14 Help Wanted 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida's swimming and diving 
teams, led by coach Gregg Troy, are looking forward to avenging last season's loss to Georgia this weekend. Read the story on pg. 14. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Porter no longer on UF's roster
Cornerback and special teams specialist Deiondre Porter is no longer listed 
on Florida's ofﬁ  cial roster. Porter was arrested on Oct. 14 for reportedly shooting a gun in the direction of his girlfriend. That same day coach Jim McElwain announced that Porter was suspended indeﬁ  nitely. By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
For anyone associated with ei-
ther Florida or Georgia, the rivalry 
between the two schools means a 
lot.
But for the players who grew 
up in Jacksonville, it’s more than 
that. 
It’s part of their identity.“Florida-Georgia is what ev-
erybody in Jacksonville looks for-ward to,” said Florida safety Nick Washington, who grew up in the 
city and played high school foot-
ball at Trinity Christian Academy. 
“That’s the biggest thing in 
Jacksonville.”
Wide receiver Ahmad Fulwood 
grew up within sight of EverBank Field, attending Bishop Kenny High School, just south of the sta-dium across the St. Johns River.
Each day when he would cross 
the Hart Bridge going north, he looked on towards the city’s coli-seum in awe. 
Even today, the same feeling 
rushes over him when he thinks of the game's gravity. 
“I literally get chills every time,” Fulwood said.
During Florida-Georgia week, 
the entire town would shut down in preparation for all the chaos that was about to ensue over the 
weekend. Nothing was unaffected — not 
even Fulwood’s football games at Bishop Kenny.“Even in high school you have 
to play your games on Thursdays because the cops need to be at 
the stadium on Friday,” Fulwood said. 
“It’s just crazy. It’s madness.”
Luckily for the junior, he 
doesn’t have to worry about 
scheduling issues anymore — the city revolves around his game now.
What he does have to worry 
about, though, is keeping his emo-tions in check while taking part in the game he’s always longed to be 
in.
Looking at the stadium is one 
thing. 
But just the thought of play-
ing inside it still gets the receiver worked up, even going into the 
matchup a third time.
“The actual chance to actually 
play inside the stadium that I’ve 
dreamed about playing (in) for a 
long time still gives me chills to this day.”
For offensive lineman David 
Sharpe’s family, the game was 
always one of the biggest days of 
the year while he was growing up.
“When I was in high school we UF-UGA carries special meaning for Jacksonville natives
Alligator File Photo
Florida wide receiver Ahmad Fulwood (left) and defensive back Jalen T abor (right) celebrate with fans 
following UF's 38-20 win against Georgia on Nov. 1 at EverBank Field in Jacksonville. 
SOCCER
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Abby Wambach, the leading career goal 
scorer in international play and a former 
Gator, announced her retirement from soccer Tuesday.
Wambach, who publicly wished to com-
plete her career with an international title, made her announcement shortly after the U.S. national team ﬁ  nished celebrating this sum-mer’s Women’s World Cup victory in Wash-ington, D.C., with President Barack Obama.
“After much deliberation and talking with 
my friends, family, teammates and our coach-ing staff, I’ve decided to ﬁ  nally bring my soc-cer career to an end,” Wambach said in a 
statement.
Before hanging up her cleats, the 35-year-
old Wambach will play in the ﬁ  nal four games 
of the team’s 10-game victory tour, which concludes Dec. 16 against China in New Or-leans.
The U.S. capped off a dominant World Cup 
run over the summer with a 5-2 defeat of pe-rennial power Japan. Carli Lloyd was award-
ed the Golden Ball, given to the best player of the tournament, after completing a hat trick in 
just 16 minutes.
Wambach’s career included a herald-
ed campaign with coach Becky Burleigh’s Gators. The Rochester, New York, native took home Southeastern Conference Freshman of the Year honors in 1998 and would be named SEC Player of the Year in 2000 and 2001.
She set multiple records during her senior 
season, including career records for goals 
(96), points (242), assists (50), game-winning 
goals (24), and hat tricks (10). Wambach was inducted into the UF Athletic Hall of Fame in 2012.
“While we still have more work to do for 
women’s soccer, after bringing the World Cup back to the United States this summer, I’m feeling extremely optimistic about the future of our sport,” Wambach said. “It’s been an amazing, wonderful ride, and I can’t wait to 
see what the next chapter of my life brings."UF's Abby Wambach retires
Abby Wambach’s retire-
ment concludes the career of the most sig-
niﬁ  cant soccer player in 
U.S. history.
I’ve often seen her labeled 
simply the greatest woman to 
play the sport, but categorizing 
her by gender diminishes Wam-bach’s accomplishments.
She’s the greatest soccer star our coun-
try has ever seen, and she is for a multi-
tude of reasons.
With soccer receiving little support 
nationally, a teenage Wambach set her 
sights on honing her skills internationally.
Soon, she had made a name for herself 
in the Olympic Development Program by playing against the experienced U.S. wom-en’s national soccer team.
By 17, Wambach’s youth soccer club 
traveled to Beijing — the ﬁ  rst trip by any U.S. youth soccer team to the Chinese capital.Growing up with six sib-
lings in Rochester, New York, Wambach was one of the most 
heralded recruits in the coun-
try before accepting an athletic scholarship to play for coach Becky Burleigh’s Gators.
Upon her arrival in 
Gainesville, she immediately bolstered a Florida team that 
was one of the most competitive in the country, yet hadn’t won a national title.
But with the freshman on board, the 
Gators knocked then-14-time champi-on North Carolina from its pedestal and claimed their ﬁ  rst NCAA championship in 
1998.
What followed for Wambach was the 
most decorated professional career any fe-
male has ever had, despite women’s soc-cer’s inability to create a proﬁ  table league 
in the U.S.
The ﬁ  nal tally? 184 goals in 252 inter-Former Gator ends career as most 
important U.S. soccer player in history
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
“It’s been an amazing, wonderful ride, 
and I can’t wait to see what the next 
chapter of my life brings.”
Abby Wambach
Former soccer player
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
No. 18 Florida made a statement 
on Tuesday when it placed four 
Gators in the top five of the Florida Gulf Coast University Classic, captur-ing their first team win of the season 
in the final Fall tournament. 
Coach JC Deacon and the men’s 
golf team went wire-to-wire at the 
Old Corkscrew Golf Club in Naples, taking the lead after the opening round and holding on for the final 36 holes. 
The Gators never fell out of first 
place and won by a healthy 42-stroke 
margin. 
UF’s final score of 13-under marks 
the second time in five tournaments 
this season it has finished under par.
Sophomore Alejandro Tosti ended 
the tournament at 5-under par and took home a share of the individual title with Central Florida’s Manuel Elvira. 
Tosti birdied four of his first seven 
holes Tuesday and held on to capture the first win of his collegiate career.
Freshman Sam Horsfield closed 
the tournament at 3-under, good enough for third place. Horsfield’s top-five finish marks his third of the Fall season. 
Junior Ryan Orr took fourth place, 
one stroke behind Horsfield, at 2-un-der. 
Senior Richard Donegan, compet-
ing as an individual in his Fall debut, finished the Classic in fifth place at even-par. Freshman Jorge Garcia tied for 
seventh at 3-over for the weekend, 
and Junior A.J. Crouch shot 5-over 
en route to a tie for 12th place. 
With five Gators competing as in-
dividuals, UF had nine of its 10 golf-ers place inside the top 25. 
Despite taking home his first win 
at UF, coach Deacon gave all the credit to his players. 
“I think the guys made it look re-
ally easy this week, but a lot of hard work has gone into it,” Deacon said in a release. 
“It’s a 42-shot victory, which 
sounds like a lot, but we ask a lot out of these guys.
“They’ve been up early and had 
late nights working at the golf course and have spent a lot of time at school, 
and there are a lot of sacrifices that 
go into it. 
“A win’s a win, and there’s a lot of 
good teams out there, and I’m happy that the guys are starting to get some results from their hard work.”
•   •   •
Coach Emily Glaser and the wom-
en’s team also capped off their Fall season with an exclamation point, winning the Alamo Invitational to take home their first team win of the 
2015-16 season. 
The No. 20 Gators demolished 
Southeastern Conference rival No. 7 
Arkansas, beating the second-place Razorbacks by 12 strokes. 
Four Florida golfers tied for sixth 
or better on the way to a 6-under par finish, their best team score of the season. Glaser was happy to see all the  
golfers on the team finish the third and final round under par on Tues-day.
“It was a great day,” Glaser said in 
a release. “I’m obviously happy for the team to win, but I’m even more impressed in the way in which they 
did it. From the beginning, we never 
let up and they went out and had to win it, it wasn’t given to them. 
“To have the entire team shoot 
under par today is a testament to how bad they wanted it, and how hard they have worked this Fall.”
Junior Maria Torres — who com-
peted in the 2013 invitational — took 
the out-right victory at 6-under par 
and tied for the low round of the day Tuesday with a 3-under 69.
“It feels amazing, but I am still 
in a little bit of shock,” Torres said in a release. “Today I saw that hard work and patience really pays off in the long run.”
Junior Karolina Vlckova tied for 
second place with Baylor’s Laura Lonardi at 1-under par. The fin-ish marks her lowest of the season, thanks to a tournament-lowest 68 second-round score on Monday. 
Junior transfer Sydney Needham 
— who was competing as an individ-ual — and sophomore Taylor Tom-linson tied for sixth at 1-over. 
All six UF golfers finished in the 
top 25, a promising sign for the up-coming Spring season. 
“It’s a great way to end the fall 
season,” Glaser said, “and this victo-ry should help the team realize their true potential.”Men’s, women’s golf teams cap Fall seasons with victories
Alligator File Photo
Ryan Orr swings during Day 1 of the SunTrust Gator 
Invitational on Feb. 14 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
By Lauren Staff
Alligator Writer
@Lstaff27
After a disappointing performance in their 
dual-competition against Texas and Indiana, 
the Gators men’s and women’s swimming and 
diving teams are hoping to bounce back after 
an off-week, healthy and in peak racing condi-tion. 
Florida will take on Georgia this weekend 
in a matchup that features the top two men’s swimming programs in the nation. 
“It’s always good to swim Georgia on Flor-
ida-Georgia football weekend. It puts a little extra into the competition,” coach Gregg Troy 
said. “We are swimming the long course, we 
will go 50 meters. With it being an Olympic year, both Georgia and ourselves have a lot of athletes that have Olympic aspirations, so it 
helps them out a lot to train and race 50 meters 
in this situation.”
This is different from the short course with 
which Florida’s athletes are familiar and will require the swimmers to rely more on finesse 
rather than power and strength. 
Opening Southeastern Conference compe-
tition, the men’s squad faces a team that de-
feated them 174.5-122.5 last season and beat 
the women by a score of 176-119.  
According to Troy, the men have to im-
prove on their performance against Texas if 
they want an opportunity to beat Georgia. 
With 25 of 35 athletes on the men’s team holding either freshman or  sophomore stand-ing, what the men are lacking most is experi-
ence. Although they lost to Texas, Troy was hap-
py with the way his team competed — he just wants them to sharpen their technical skills. For the women’s squad, the leadership of 
senior Natalie Hinds is critical in helping her younger teammates prepare for big meets. 
“She makes all the relays click,” Troy said. 
“She’s real focused, brings other people up 
to her level of competition. Just a tremendous 
athlete.”
Although neither team has been perfect 
in competition this season, 11 members of 
the No. 1 men’s and No. 13 women’s teams have combined to lead the SEC in 14 separate 
events. 
Five Gators also held the fastest times in the 
country as of Tuesday.
The meet will provide the Gators and Bull-
dogs a chance to showcase their skills on the 
Florida Swim Network during the first broad-cast of College SwimDay. 
Airing from the O’Connell Center, the 
45-minute event will start at 10 a.m. on Friday 
and give fans the opportunity to view an as-
sortment of live segments and videos. 
Similar to College GameDay for football, 
College SwimDay will give fans in attendance 
the chance to display signs supporting their 
team. 
The platform gives the Gators a great oppor-
tunity to avenge last year’s loss on a national stage. 
“Georgia was a top-10 last year, and I think 
that they are little bit better this year,” Troy said. 
“They are a great group and we are going to 
be challenged the whole way through.”Gators aiming to avenge last season’s loss to Georgia
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Natalie Hinds jumps into the pool for her leg of the 200 IM relay during Florida’s 
189.5-110.5 win against Arkansas on Sept. 27, 2014, in the O’Connell Center. 
SWIMMING & DIVINGWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
would cook out, watch it, everybody comes 
over,” said Sharpe, who played high school football at Fletcher, roughly half an hour away from EverBank Field. 
“It’s a big game for us.”Now as a participant, the game has even 
bigger implications for Sharpe. 
Last year, he had a legion of family and friends who attended the game to watch him not only play, but also become cement-
ed as a part of the game and city’s tradition.
“Actually playing in it is a big accom-
plishment,” he said.
While most of his family pulls for the 
Gators, some of Sharpe’s former coaches 
root for the Bulldogs, and after last year’s upset, Sharpe caught some flak.
“They were really mad about it,” Sharpe 
said. “I got some bad text 
messages, but it was 
great.”
That’s just part of the 
gig for Sharpe, a gig he’ll 
gladly take some ribbing 
for if Florida can pull off 
another victory.
But that’s all he’s 
thinking about — a second straight win. 
For someone from Jacksonville, the Florida-Georgia game needs no added sig-nificance from a Southeastern Conference 
division title race. 
The Gators and Bulldogs seemingly al-
ways bring their 'A' game when facing each 
other. 
Just like last year’s contest, no matter 
the circumstances, the game is always im-portant.
“It’s always special,” Sharpe said.FOOTBALL,  from pg13Sharpe attended high school 30 minutes from EverBank Field By Madison Belfour
Alligator Writer
@madisonbel4
The Gator duo of junior Belinda 
Woolcock and sophomore Josie Kuhl-
man came out on top Monday afternoon 
after what was an all-Gator doubles fi-nals match for the USTA/ITA Southeast 
Regional Championships.
With their win, the duo received an 
automatic berth to the National Indoor Championships set to start on Nov. 12 in 
Flushing, New York.
This weekend's tournament was held 
in Athens, Georgia, but was moved to Gainesville following quarterfinal action. Four UF doubles teams would contest for 
the title.
The finals saw the No. 54-ranked pair-
ing of Woolcock and Kuhlman upset the No. 1-ranked duo of sophomore Brooke 
Austin and junior Kourtney Keegan, 3-6, 
6-0, 14-12, in a three-set playoff match.
In the 2014-15 season, Woolcock and 
Kuhlman held the No. 2 doubles spot for the Gators with a regular season record 
of 4-2 and went 1-0 in Southeastern Con-ference play. 
This was the first tournament that the 
duo had played together this season.
What makes this victory more im-
pressive is the fact that Woolcock and Kuhlman have a fairly short history of playing together. 
Typically paired with junior Spencer 
Liang, Woolcock posted an 11-5 record in overall play during the 2014-15 sea-
son.
A native of Melbourne, Australia, 
Woolcock has tennis in her blood. She was introduced to the sport by 
her mom, along with great uncle Will 
Coghlan, and instantly fell in love. 
Coghlan made an appearance in the 
semifinals of the 1967 Australia Open Men’s Doubles Championships, and 
great aunt Lorraine Coghlan Robinson 
won the 1958 Wimbledon Mixed Dou-bles Championship with Bob Howe.
Along with her family, Woolcock 
models her game after all-time greats Kim Clijsters and Serena Williams, play-
ers renowned for their aggressive play. 
With an overall singles record of 56-
20 and a doubles record of 45-26, it’s apparent that the No. 32-ranked Wool-
cock does not shy away from the tough matches.
The Gators will next travel to Orlando 
for the USTA Disney Clay Court Classic on Nov. 6 before heading to Flushing for 
the USTA/ITA National Indoor Champi-
onships on Nov. 12.Kuhlman, Woolcock take doubles title
Alligator File Photo
Belinda Woolcock hits a two-handed backhand during 
Florida's 4-0 win against Elon on Jan. 24. 
national games, the highest inter-
national total in the sport, regard-less of gender.  
And she was named the FIFA 
World Player of the Year in 2012 after a dominant display at the Olympics.
“What she has done for wom-
en’s soccer and women’s sports overall with her amazing talents on the field and her personal-ity off it has been inspiring to 
watch,” U.S. coach Jill Ellis said 
Tuesday. 
“I am just extremely happy 
that she could end her career with 
that elusive World Cup title and 
go out on top, right where she de-serves to be.”
Wambach was also consis-
tently heralded for her dedication 
to health and fitness, including 
spreading concussion awareness.
Arguably most well known 
for her aggressive heading of the 
ball, she has campaigned in re-
cent years for improved policing of head injuries in soccer.
She said she may have re-
turned too soon from a concus-
sion in 2013 and implores teams 
to hold players out who show any signs of a head injury. 
U.S. soccer would later admit her concussion was mishandled.
However, gender barriers 
aside, Wambach’s greatest ac-complishment is her promotion of equal rights for women in soccer.
Preceding the 2015 Women’s 
World Cup, Wambach lashed out at FIFA for deciding to play the tournament on artificial turf, which is rightfully considered to be inferior to grass.
With multiple studies indicat-
ing the rubber tire fragments in artificial turf can increase the risk of cancer, Wambach boldly criti-
cized FIFA’s money-saving move 
that came at the expense of player safety.
Now that she’s walking away 
from the game, I have no doubt 
she’ll continue to use her promi-
nence to increase awareness for equal rights for women across all sports.
Even though her international, 
U.S. and Florida records will ulti-mately epitomize her accomplish-ments, Wambach was much more than an exemplary athlete.
She used her prominence to 
raise awareness for equality for women in sports, and there’s no doubt she’ll tackle further is-
sues head-on, the same way she 
attacked a soccer ball her entire career. COLUMN,  from pg13
AP Photo
Abby Wambach, draped in an American flag, celebrates with teammates after winning the women's 
soccer gold medal match against Japan at the 2012 Summer Olympics. Wambach retired on Tuesday. 
UF was incapable of losing
Sharpe
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2015
FOOTBALL
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
 
The rivalry will be renewed 
on Saturday. No. 11 Florida (6-1, 
4-1 Southeastern Conference) and Georgia (5-2, 3-2 SEC) meet at 
Everbank Field at 3:30 p.m. with 
control of the SEC East on the line. Here’s what to watch for from Georgia on Saturday.
 
Offense:  Georgia lives and 
dies by its run game. The Bull-dogs are second in the conference with 215.6 yards on the ground per game, trailing only LSU. 
Even with standout tailback Nick 
Chubb sidelined with ligament damage in his left knee, the duo of Sony Michel and Keith Marshall has ﬁ  lled in nicely. Since Chubb injured his knee on the ﬁ  rst play of scrimmage against Tennessee, Michel has tallied 232 yards on 48 carries (4.8 yards/rush).
Quarterback Greyson Lambert 
can hold his own as well. The former Virginia signal caller has completed 64.1 percent of his passes for 1,276 yards and nine touchdowns to just two intercep-tions. Malcolm Mitchell has been his go-to receiver. The senior is averaging ﬁ  ve catches and 72.1 
yards per game, marks that re-
spectively rank eighth and sixth in the conference.
 
Defense:  Georgia’s strongest 
assets on defense are its pass de-fense and its production on third down. The Bulldogs have held opponents to a mere 187 passing 
yards per game, which puts them 
second in the SEC and 26th na-tionally. Georgia has held four of its seven opponents to under 200 yards passing and only Vanderbilt completed multiple touchdown passes (three) in a game against 
UGA’s secondary.
Georgia also ranks second in 
the conference and is tied for 11th 
nationally with a 28.7 percent op-ponent third-down conversion rate. Four of UGA’s ﬁ  ve SEC op-ponents this year converted one-third or less of their third-downs.
 
Special Teams:  The Bull-
dogs have proven to be danger-ous in the punt return game. Georgia is one of six teams in the country to return two punts for 
touchdowns this season and is one of just four teams with two 
different players taking punts to the house. Otherwise, though, UGA’s special teams are relatively lackluster, ranking in the bottom half of the conference in kickoff returns (13th, 15.5 yards/return), 
ﬁ  eld-goal percentage (10th, 64.3 
percent) and punting (13th, 39.5 yards/punt and 33.6 net yards/punt).
 
Player to Watch: Leonard 
Floyd
All season, Floyd has been 
around the ball at the right time. The junior is tied for second on UGA’s defense with 21 solo tack-
les and has six tackles for loss, 
including a team-high-tying three sacks. He returned a fumble 96 yards for a touchdown in the ﬁ  rst quarter against Tennessee, giving the Bulldogs an early 7-0 lead.
 
A look back at last year’s 
matchup
Florida wasn’t supposed to 
beat Georgia in 2014. But behind running backs Kelvin Taylor and Matt Jones, the unranked Gators prevailed, upsetting the No. 11 
Bulldogs 38-20 in Jacksonville. 
Florida gashed Georgia’s defense for 418 rushing yards and ﬁ  ve touchdowns on a season-high 60 carries while then-freshman Tre-on Harris — starting his ﬁ  rst col-legiate game — attempted a mere six passes.
 
Series history:  Georgia 
leads the all-time series 49-41-2. The Gators have won six of the last 10, with four of the games be-ing decided by four points or less.
 
Fun fact:  Saturday’s game 
will mark the ﬁ  rst time since 2009 that an unranked Georgia team will face a ranked Florida team.Scouting Florida’s next opponent: The Georgia Bulldogs
AP Photo
Georgia quarterback Greyson Lambert throws during the team’s 9-6 win over Missouri on Oct. 17 
at Sanford Stadium in Athens, Georgia. 
Georgia’s run game 
vs. Florida
 With Nick Chubb sidelined, Sat-
urday’s Florida-Georgia game will mark the third straight year where the Bulldogs will play the game without one of their top two running 
backs.
 In 2014, UGA starting tailback 
Todd Gurley was forced to sit out af-
ter accruing a four-game suspension 
for receiving money for autographed 
memorabilia. Chubb started the game and rushed for 156 yards and a touchdown while also catching ﬁ  ve passes for 59 yards and a second touchdown.
 In 2013, Keith Marshall missed the 
ﬁ  nal eight games of the season after tearing his ACL against Tennessee in the ﬁ  fth game of the season. Through that point in the year, Marshall had 246 rushing yards and a touchdown 
on 56 carries, second only to Gurley 
(71 carries, 450 yards, four rushing touchdowns).