VOLUME 109 ISSUE 109 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF President Kent Fuchs talks Twitter and life as a Gator
Read the ﬁ  rst of his semi-regular columns, pg 6. 
Second annual public relations frank conference starts today
It will feature speakers from the communications ﬁ  eld, pg 5.  UF students form quintet, to perform 
over Spring Break
Read this and other SB15 stories, pgs. 8-9. 
70/57
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Billy Donovan 
remains at 499 career 
wins after the Florida 
men’s basketball team 
lost to Missouri on 
Tuesday. Read the 
stbory on page 13.
Marley Boerema / Alligator
Members of The Agency’s inaugural team write messages and sign their names on a strip of paper in the new facility on Tuesday after-noon. The signatures will be placed in a time capsule.
 IT ALREADY HAS CLIENTS.
CHRIS KENNEDY
Alligator Contributing Writer
The inaugural staff of The Agency stood in profes-
sional attire surrounded by ﬂ  ags and balloons during its 
dedication ceremony Tuesday. 
Students, faculty, staff, alumni and donors ﬁ  lled the 
Weimer Hall Atrium at 11 a.m. for the grand opening of 
The Agency, UF’s student-staffed integrated public rela-
tions and advertising ﬁ  rm. 
UF College of Journalism and Communications Dean 
Diane McFarlin took center stage as she introduced some of the donors and visionaries that made the 57-member ﬁ  rm possible. 
“The Agency is not one person’s vision, but a collective 
vision,” she said.
The ﬁ  rm, part of the UF College of Journalism and 
Communications, will be run by a team of industry pro-fessionals as well as current UF students, most of them public relations and advertising majors.
The Agency’s ofﬁ  ce, located on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor of 
Weimer Hall, has been under construction since August and opened for business Tuesday.  
Andy Hopson, the executive director of The Agency, 
has worked with reputable public relations ﬁ  rms such as Burson-Marsteller and Ogilvy & Mather and said he has 
high hopes for the growth of the ﬁ  rm.
“We are not building an agency,” he said. “We’re 
building ‘the’ agency.”
Ryan Baum, Hopson’s assistant and a UF public rela-
tions junior, said journalism and telecommunication stu-
dents have the Innovation News Center, but there was a lack of opportunity for public relations and advertising students to gain hands-on experience. 
So The Agency was born. 
“The college has always made it a priority to bridge the 
industry and the classroom,” Baum, 21, said, “but for the 
ﬁ  rst time, with The Agency, they’re taking the classroom and putting it out in the industry.”
Its current clients include Experiencias Xcaret, a Mexi-
can theme park, and The Florida Department of Citrus. Within UF, The Agency represents the International Cen-ter, the Health Science Center and the Department of Me-The Agency PR ﬁ  rm has its grand opening
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
Last month, Santa Fe College Student 
Body President Michael Chartier resigned without giving a reason.
Most senators are still 
unaware that Chartier 
was forced to step down 
after a disciplinary com-mittee deemed him dan-gerous. 
In November, Chartier 
and Senate President Jer-
emy Pierce fought after an internal investigation 
launched in response to claims that Pierce 
threatened to remove senators from Student 
Government for arbitrary reasons.
The police were called, and Pierce wanted 
to ﬁ  le assault charges against Chartier.
The college ordered the two never to be 
in the same room together and to not com-municate.
On Jan. 25, Chartier reached out to 10 
people, including Santa Fe SG members, 
professors and faculty, because he wrote he 
had “recently broken the code of conduct” between himself and Pierce.
He needed people to vouch for his char-
acter in front of a discipline committee on the morning of Jan. 28, so it could “determine appropriate sanctions.”
At the Senate meeting that night, now-SFC Student
president dismissed
SEE CHARTIER, PAGE 4
SEE AGENCY, PAGE 4Chartier
Campus Voting Locations
Health Science Center
 C2-041CBroward Hall
 Basement
Heavener Hall 
 Academic Success Suite room 202
Springs Area Ofﬁ  ce
 Room C 202Jennings Hall
 First ﬂ  oor library
Law School (Bruton-Geer)
 Side hallways by cafeteriaSouthwest Recreation Center
 Cafe near entrance on left sideReitz Union 
 Computer LabNorman Hall
 Education LibraryMurphree Area Commons
 Conference Area room 106Marston Science Library
 Main roomARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
The ﬁ  rst day of voting broke re-
cords in recent years with a total of 
8,093 ballots cast Tuesday.
UF Supervisor of Elections Hans 
Rojas said he was happy with the 
voter turnout and that there were no technical difﬁ  culties during voting.
“Overall, elections went very 
smoothly,” he said.
According to Alligator archives, 
this year’s ﬁ  rst-day turnout in-creased by 33 percent compared to Spring 2014 elections, which brought in 5,457 ballots. Spring 2013 had 6,274, and Spring 2012 had 6,517.
Swamp Party spokesman and 
President Ricky Salabarria said he felt the ﬁ  rst day went well.
“I was really happy to see all of 
our candidates out there and en-gaging the entire Student Body and 
passing on the message of our plat-
form and what our candidates will do in ofﬁ  ce,” he said.Access Party President Matthew 
Hoeck said he enjoyed engaging with students.
“This is why Access Party was 
created,” he said. “We were created to be a voice for students.”
Nick Torralba, 19, said he waited 
about ﬁ  ve minutes to vote at Jen-nings Hall.
“It was relatively fast,” the UF 
industrial and systems engineering sophomore said.
Voting continues today from 
8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Students must bring their Gator 1 Cards — or gov-ernment-issued photo ID and know their UFID numbers — to vote.First day of SG voting sees highest turnout in recent years 
Both parties are pleasedNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 109 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
RAIN
75/57RAIN
61/54RAIN
64/48PARTLY 
CLOUDY
68/46RAIN
70/57
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. basis for well-known musi-
cal sensations of the 1950s. Admission is free.
Gay Movie Night
This month’s movie is “Burning Blue.” They have been trained to meet danger head-on and execute vital strategic maneuvers while flying at breathtaking speeds. But after a series of fatal acci-dents, a close-knit squadron of male Navy pilots begins 
to splinter and becomes the 
focus of a criminal investiga-tion. As a government agent digs to uncover the cause of the accidents, two of the pilots engage in a secret, for-bidden relationship. Their affair is exposed, and the squadron is engulfed by an 
incendiary scandal that will 
challenge each pilot’s notions of friendship, love, honor and courage. Gay Movie Night is a free service of the Pride Community Center. A $2 donation is requested to cover cost of snacks. It’s at 7:30 p.m. Friday at the Pride 
Community Center at 3131 
NW 13th Street.
Public meeting for Save Our 
SuwanneeSave Our Suwannee is host-ing a free public education presentation. Robert Knight will present “Restoring the 
Suwannee — A Hopeful 
Future.” He will talk about the current scientific under-standing of impairments, their causes and effects and will lay out a comprehensive plan for restoration and pro-tection. It will be at 7 p.m. Friday in the Great Outdoors 
Ballroom at 65 N. Main St. in 
High Springs. Light refresh-ments will be provided after-ward.
Bottom Up Sex Ed!
Registration is now open for Yes Means Yes, an interdisci-plinary, interactive, non-cred-
it, five week, student-facilitat-
ed seminar that encourages meaningful, engaging discus-sions on consent and sexu-ality. Make your campus safer, have dinner on us and increase your sexual satisfac-tion! Meets are Thursday eve-nings March 12 through April 
9 from 6:30 to 8 p.m. For more 
information and to register, go to gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
Be a Game Changer Video 
ContestSTRIVE at GatorWell, the Women’s Student 
Association and Student 
Government’s Health Affairs Cabinet are excited to unveil our “Be a Game Changer” video contest. Help educate WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Creative Writing Club
Do you love to write? Do you want to improve your writ-ing skills while making new friends? Then come to the 
Creative Writing Club ev-
ery Wednesday at 3 p.m. in Matherly Hall, Room 014. Meetings involve reading and responding to a short story written by a member of the group and then discussing the story with the whole group with a focus on constructive 
criticism. There are no require-
ments to join; just come and have fun with us.
Midterms Relaxation Week at 
Library WestTake a break from studying, and join the Library Ambassadors for these relaxing activities at 
Library West. Massages will 
be available Wednesday from 4 to 6 p.m. in Room 212. Pizza and fiction books will be given away Thursday from 5 to 6 p.m. on the second floor near the cir-culation desk.
Midnight Fun Run
There will be a 24-hour early registration blitz today for the Midnight Fun Run by UF RecSports. The race will be April 22 at 11:59 p.m., and reg-istration includes breakfast and a T-shirt. Register today at a dis-counted rate of $13 and receive glow-in-the-dark laces. Regular 
registration for the MFR will re-
open March 23 at a $15 rate for students. For more information or to register, visit recsports.ufl.edu.
Mellow Soul Open Mic at CMC
The weekly Tuesday open mic at Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar 
visits the Civic Media Center 
for tonight only in honor of Black History Month. Come out and enjoy spoken word, poetry, singing, and African singing and drumming. It starts at 8 p.m. at 433 S. Main St.
Queer Women Empowerment 
NetworkLife is tough for college stu-dents, especially when strug-gling with a queer identity as a woman on top of work, classes and internships. Finding oppor-tunities to socialize with other queer women and release stress is hard. LGBT Affairs is offer-
ing a weekly discussion group 
that will connect you with other queer ladies in the area to chat, hang out and learn more about yourself and others. It is at 7:30 p.m. every Wednesday in Peabody Hall’s Rainbow Room.
Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: 
Early Roots of Rock and RollHear history come to life Thursday with a multimedia presentation by the chairman of the Yale University Music Department entitled “Tampa Red and Hokum Blues: Early Roots of Rock and Roll.” This lecture, running from 6 to 8 
p.m. at the Matheson Museum, 
examines how the hokum blues of the late 1920s were the UF on how to intervene to end 
sexual violence. What better 
way to teach than by doing? So show us your best bystander scenarios in a public service an-nouncement video format, and you could win up to $550 in UF Bookstore gift cards. Deadline for submission is March 1. For official rules and eligibility, vis-
it gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
Take Back the Night
The Office of Victim Services, in 
collaboration with STRIVE and other campus organizations, is looking for an artist to use his or her gifts toward making a creative stand against sexual 
violence. Take Back the Night 
is an annual event to “shatter the silence” of sexual violence. It will take place on April 1. They’d like to see a student help develop a 3-D art piece that can be used in promotion of the event, as well as in the aftermath as a visual reminder 
of how the Gator community 
takes a stand against sexual violence. If this project inter-ests you, please email victim advocate Annie Carper at atan-nekcarper@ufl.edu or send a Facebook message.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
 ABOUT 34K HAVE SIGNED UP.
ARIELLA PHILLIPS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Saturday is the last day to sign up 
for Florida Prepaid, and enrollment 
has more than doubled since last year.
New plan prices were slashed 
more than 50 percent due to a new 
state law that helps control future tu-
ition increases, according to the Flori-da Prepaid College Board.
About 34,000 plans have been 
sold since October, compared to the roughly 16,000 sold during the entire enrollment period last year.
A four-year plan costs $173 a 
month, down from $350 last year, ac-
cording to the board. Applicants must 
be a high school junior or younger.
The lower plan prices bother some current UF students.
“By giving that much of a dis-
count, it’s not fair to students who had to pay the full price and not fair to the university system who has to make up that difference,” said Cam-
eron Myers, an 18-year-old UF eco-
nomics freshman. 
At UF, nearly 12,500 students have 
Florida Prepaid, according to the of-ﬁ  ce of student ﬁ  nancial affairs.
The program allows family mem-
bers to save for their student’s college fund, said Rick Wilder, director of the ofﬁ  ce. He said the decision to join is 
an individual one.
“For some families it may be worth 
it,” he said. “Others it may not be.”
UF has seen a steady increase in 
new students enrolled in the program, 
which he said is beneﬁ  cial because tu-ition is not expected to increase for the 2015-16 school year.Florida Prepaid signups 
double after price drop
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Roller Coaster Tycoon
Brandon Bombei, a 16-year-old high school junior from New Port Richey, operates a roller coast-
er he built out of K’Nex at the UF Engineers’ Week Engineering and Science Fair on Tuesday.
chanical and Aerospace Engineering. 
The Agency’s target audience is mil-
lennials, Baum said. Within six months, it 
plans to launch Millennial Research Core, an online community populated with thou-
sands of millennials to provide insights on 
the group’s habits and social media usage.
“Because we have such a niche focus 
with millennial marketing, we can work with other agencies on major national cli-ents because we can come in just for the millennial marketing segment,” he said.
Hopson said he thinks the firm’s power 
lies in the students behind it.
“Old guys like me try to figure out how 
to talk to people like you, and they often miss the mark because I’m not you,” he said. “But when you actually have millen-nials talking to millennials, that’s the secret sauce.”4, ALLIGATOR � WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015
 GPD’S LAST CHECKPOINT 
WAS IN DECEMBER 2013.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Though a Florida attorney is 
pushing drivers to keep their win-
dows up during a drunk-driving checkpoint, you would probably be charged doing so in Gainesville.
Warren Redlich, an attorney 
from Boca Raton, published a YouTube video showing himself during a checkpoint, placing his license, registration and a note re-fusing comment without a lawyer against the window during a check-
point before the officer waves him 
on. The video has more than 70,000 views.
Sgt. Joe Raulerson, who has run 
DUI checkpoints in the past with Gainesville Police, said doing that during a stop would likely result in an obstruction charge.
“If we conduct a roadway stop, 
we would require the person to talk to us,” Raulerson said. 
GPD hasn’t held a DUI check-point since Dec. 31, 2013, due to the amount of officers needed from Florida Highway Patrol, Alachua County Sheriff’s Office and GPD to 
run the checkpoint. A typical DUI 
checkpoint would require 30 to 40 officers, Raulerson said.
Still, GPD officers are aware of 
the trend, he said.
“It happens sometimes in regu-
lar traffic stops,” Raulerson said. “We’re starting to see it a lot with sovereign citizens.”
Frederick Shenkman, an emeri-
tus UF professor in the Department of Sociology and Criminology and Law, said that while police have the right to require drivers to speak to them, he thinks courts should pro-vide more input on the issue.
“I think we’re going to have a 
collision with a civil protest against the police. It’s an accident waiting to happen,” Shenkman said. “It al-ways takes some tragedy for people to realize we should do something about this.”
He said the popularity of the 
video stems from the fact that traf-
fic laws are some of the most com-
monly broken laws.
“Most people break the law ev-ery time they get in the car,” Shenk-man said. “So you can see how an ‘avoid arrest during a traffic stop’ video is being popular.”
Redlich has published multiple 
fliers for people to place in their cars and a book, “Fair DUI,” about the tactic.
Raulerson said the police de-
partment didn’t pay too much at-tention to the trend because it’s not  new.
“People have tried it before. It’s 
nothing new,” he said. “They feel like they don’t have to follow the laws of the state of Florida.”
Local police could charge those passing over DUI checkpoints
LOCAL
LAURA CARDONA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Joshua Everling always wanted to 
find a job that did not interfere with school.
When a friend told him about a 
small-scale moving company with 
an all-student workforce, he said he 
found what he needed.
This year, the company — called 
Bellhops — is looking to hire up to 60 new Gainesville employees.
“I always have something to fall 
back on in case I don’t have time for a part-time job,” the 20-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering 
major said.
Cameron Doody, a co-founder of 
Bellhops, said the company wants to 
continue expanding in Gainesville because of the growth it’s seen since its start in 2011.
“Our goal in Gainesville is to be-
come a staple in the community,” Doody said. “We want to solve an is-sue that so many people face.”
The ideal candidate is athletic and 
has a positive personality. Although 
less than one percent of applicants 
are women, Bellhops welcomes fe-male applicants who fit the criteria they are looking for, Doody said.Bellhops get paid $13 per hour  
plus tips  and are free to work on their own time. This is the type of flexible schedule that attracted Ever-ling.
“That way I don’t have to worry 
about my academics coming after work,” he said.
Data collected from customer 
feedback and required Bellhops peer reviews goes on each individual bell-hop’s profile. Doody said many stu-dent bellhops got jobs after showing employers these profiles.
Student bellhops who rise to the 
campus director position also have 
the opportunity to acquire an intern-
ship with the company. 
This summer, 30 students will be 
invited to a paid internship where they will live in dorms on the Uni-versity of Tennessee at Chattanooga campus.
“It’s something that not just stu-
dents and parents can enjoy as a ser-
vice,” Doody said, “but that every-
body can benefit from.”Moving service to hire 60 students after successful first year
Alligator File Photo 
Bellhops student movers Weston Wamp, right, and Jared Houghton carry a couch as part of their 
moving service in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
AGENCY , from page 1To focus on 
millennialsSG continues to struggle with disorganization
President Austin Browning announced 
Chartier’s resignation without further ex-planation.
Nina Trombi, chairwoman of the Career 
Service Council, was one of the few who 
showed up to speak on Chartier’s behalf.
She was one of only three people who had the chance to speak, due to the proceedings’ unexpected length.
“When it was my turn, I was actually 
kind of surprised because it was Michael asking the questions, like, ‘Did I ever feel 
like he was a threat?’” Trombi said.
She said she didn’t.
Later that day, she received another 
email from Chartier.
“Unfortunately, the discipline committee 
has decided to remove me from my position in Student Government,” he wrote.  “As of today, I will no longer be allowed to serve as the Student Body President here at Santa 
Fe College.”
Vice President of Student Affairs Naima 
Brown and Associate Vice President of Stu-
dent Affairs Dan Rodkin declined to com-ment due to Family Education Rights and Privacy Act regulations.
Senators, SG members and faculty who worked closely with Chartier said they nev-er saw him as a danger to students.
Browning, who worked with Chartier as 
vice president, described him as a proactive person who fought for what he believed.
      
Santa Fe Senate has also struggled to 
reach the required number of senators to conduct regular business this semester.
Some SG members and senators say this 
is a result of fighting in SG.
“People just don’t get along,” said Dal-
ton King, president pro tempore.  “And people have their own agendas and what they want.”
Some senators point to the argument be-
tween Chartier and Pierce as when things turned sour.
A few weeks after the argument, Sen-
ate voted no-confidence against Pierce  — a 
move that suggested they did not believe he 
was fit to hold his position.
Senators tried to impeach Pierce, but the 
movement died out at the beginning of this semester.
Joe Samberg, a longtime senator who has 
seen three Senate presidents, said SG has “no order” and “no structure.”
“(Pierce is) not willing to help the stu-
dents or the school in any way,” Samberg said.  
But with Pierce set to leave office in two 
months, Samberg said senators need to focus on ways to improve the school and leave the impeachment behind.
“People join Student Senate because they 
see politics on TV, and they want to play politicians,” Sen. Lucas Jewell said.“So in playing pretend politician, they like to cre-ate drama.”
“All this time that they’re using to im-
peach (Pierce), they could be using that time for more productive things,” he added. “But instead we’re stuck in a state of conflict.”
      
Next week, senators running for Leader-
ship Team positions will begin campaign-ing for elections.
The future is uncertain for many sena-
tors, but one common goal they share is a 
desire to fix SG and Senate.
“Honestly, at this point, I think we do 
have a place still,” said Benjamin Myers, di-
rector of internal affairs.  
“Faculty and staff hopefully will see that 
not everybody is as crazy as we’re made out to be,” he added. “I just hope that we can resolve our conflicts and get back to doing what we do best, and that is doing right on 
the behalf of the students.”CHARTIER , from page 1 “Our goal in Gainesville 
is to become a staple in the 
community.”
Cameron Doody
Co-founder of BellhopsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Laura Cardona / Alligator
Mannequins wearing examples of Ghanaian fashion stand in one of the exhibit rooms in the Samuel P. 
Harn Museum of Art.
CAMPUS
LAURA ESCOBAR
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ghana’s vibrant, patterned tex-
tiles are on display at UF’s Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art with help from a UF alumnus.  
UF graduate Christopher Rich-
ards co-curated the Kabas and Couture: Contemporary Ghana-ian Fashion exhibit, which opened Tuesday and will run until Aug. 23.
The exhibit showcases the work 
of five contemporary Ghanaian designers and has an interactive component where visitors can try on traditional Ghanaian garments called kabas and take pictures.
Richards, who graduated in 
August with a doctorate degree in art history with a focus on African art, did his dissertation on Ghana-ian fashion. He brought the exhibit to the Harn to challenge miscon-ceptions of African cultures.
“We hear so much bad news 
about the African continent, and I want people to see that African countries are not only negative,” Richards said.
Richards said Kabas and Cou-
ture explores the history of Afri-can fashion, beginning with the traditional kente and transitioning to modern Ghanaian designers like Aisha Ayensu, who created the Christie Brown brand and has designed for Beyoncé and Alicia Keys.
The exhibit reflects the idea that 
fashion has a real presence in Afri-ca, said Susan Cooksey, co-curator of the exhibit and curator of Afri-can art at the Harn.
“You may not see all of these 
(designers) in Paris runways, but before too long you will,” Cooksey said.
Richards said he plans to send 
the exhibition to institutions across the nation.
“I want people to see just a taste 
of what I experienced,” he said, “just to look at an African country in a new way.” UF alum co-curates Ghana fashion exhibit now open at the Harn
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Candidates Past
Elizabeth Tejeda, the UF Hispanic Student Association secretary, introduces a video of an interview with Gil Sanchez to an audience of about 40 at La Casita on Tuesday. The words “no spic for presi -
dent” were spray-painted on La Casita while Sanchez ran for UF Student Body president in 2002.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a 
man Monday evening after he 
reportedly got high off computer dusters and crashed into a car.
Just before 8:30 p.m., James 
Leon Joiner, 38, was driving in the 200 block of Northwest 13th Street when his truck crashed into the back of another car. The impact pushed the car into oncoming traffic and shattered the car’s rear windshield, according to a police report. The driver of the car was cut and bruised near her left eye 
but otherwise unharmed.
Joiner then drove south on 13th 
Street away from the crash.Authorities found Joiner 13 
miles south of the accident with 
pieces of the driver’s windshield in the bed of his truck and red paint from the other car on the bumper, according to the report.
After his arrest, Joiner said he 
was sitting in the Applebee’s park-ing lot just north of the crash inhal-
ing computer dusters to get high.
Joiner told police he was “pret-
ty sure” he didn’t hit a car.
Officers found two computer 
dusters in Joiner’s truck, according 
to the report.
Police charged Joiner with in-
haling harmful chemicals and hit and run. Officers took Joiner to the 
Alachua County Jail, where he re-
mained as of press time in lieu of a $25,000 bond.Police: Fla man crashes 
into car after inhaling computer dusters
CHRIS KENNEDY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ann Christiano is aiming to change the 
view of the public interest communications 
field to highlight it as a legitimate career choice during the second annual frank con-ference.
Christiano, a UF Frank Karel chairwom-
an in public interest communications, will lead the conference today at venues around downtown Gainesville, where the confer-ence will spark conversations to teach peo-ple how to approach and solve social issues.
This is the conference’s second year, and 
it is set to begin at 1 p.m. today. It will run until Friday.
There will be various speakers from the 
communication fields, such as Sheryl Wu-Dunn, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist; Whitney Dow, a documentary filmmaker; and Anastasia Khoo, the Human Rights Campaign marketing director.
Christiano said the huddle segment, 
which is a breakout session to discuss a so-cial issue, will be more of an open-concept than last year because the original Q&A for-mat will be scrapped.
“People bring who they have and who 
they know and what they are to this gath-ering,” Christiano said, “and that’s part of this magic that sort of transcends anything we can put on the agenda or anything we can organize.”
Lizzy Shebanek, a UF public relations se-
nior who will be volunteering at frank, said she’s looking forward to networking and learning from the guest speakers.
“There’s going to be so many distin-guished professionals that are coming, and I think it’s a great opportunity,” Shebanek, 21, said.
Some of the issues facing the public in-
terest communications sector are a lack of funding and a shortage of people who iden-tify as members of the field. 
Christiano said she hopes frank will help 
the field grow and create mentoring rela-tionships among participants.
She said she sees frank growing to the lev-
el of prestige and recognition that surround conferences such as TED and PopTech, mak-ing people feel the innate need to attend. She said no campus would be better than UF as the launching pad for such growth.
Second annual public relations frank conference starts today
It features speakers from communication fieldsReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
UF alumni not 
immune from 
political scandal 
Today marks the end of Student Government elections for 
this semester, and while it’s easily been the one of the most entertaining ones on record, we feel like it’s time to step 
back and talk about something else for a change. Considering this is Florida, we’d have to be incredibly unlucky to go a day 
without a scandalous story going by, especially if it has to do 
with in-state political maneuvers.
In this week’s news, a tiff between John Morgan and U.S. 
House Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz just got more intense.
Quick catch-up: John Morgan is a wealthy trial lawyer who 
bankrolled last fall’s United For Care medical marijuana cam-paign. If you’ve looked at any billboards in this state, you’ve probably seen his face before. It’s everywhere.
Debbie Wasserman Schultz is a high-proﬁ  le politician who 
represents areas around Miami in the U.S. House and is the chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee — not ex-actly a lightweight. She might be eyeing a spot in the Senate, if Sen. Marco Rubio decides to go for the Big One in 2016.
The two had been cozy for a while — Morgan is a major 
Democratic donor — until Morgan launched his campaign to legalize medical marijuana last year, a proposal Wasserman Schultz vehemently opposed. She likened the possibility of medical pot dispensaries to the existing problem of pill mills, 
quasi-legal pharmacies that dole out massive amounts of pain-
killers that are often used just to get high.
Medical marijuana advocates were understandably upset — 
a high-proﬁ  le potential friend was smearing their efforts. Mor-gan, in particular, was furious: He helped write the initiative and spent $4 million of his own money on it. He joined the chorus of criticism lobbed at Wasserman Schultz. In an email to a Politico writer, he wrote “This will be a major campaign issue and I think disqualiﬁ  es her from the nomination,” referring to the U.S. Sen-
ate. His voice is the heaviest and most tinged with the sound 
of money, something Wasserman Schultz can’t ignore if she’s serious about the Senate. According to a scandalous accusation made by Morgan, it appears she took it very seriously indeed. Morgan claims a political adviser for Wasserman Schultz con-tacted his own political consultant with an offer to change her position on medical marijuana if he ended his rhetorical attacks against her, then launched a new slate of attacks against her. 
Wasserman Schultz has, of course, denied these claims — yet 
they’ve already done her some serious damage. No matter what the truth turns out to be, one of them just played a seriously dirty political game. They’re both inﬂ  uential, loud-mouthed people who happen to live in the same state as we do. What does that have to do with us? 
A lot, actually — both of them are UF alumni who were heav-
ily involved in their time here. Morgan was Florida Blue Key president; Wasserman Schultz was president of the UF Student Senate in 1986. Which is to say: People who are students today 
may go on to become powerful people later on. What happens 
here has ramiﬁ  cations beyond this semester and this campus.
82 TOTAL VOTES81% YES
19% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgTuesday’s question: Are you going to 
vote in the Student Government elec-tions?Today’s question: Who do you think will win in the elec-
tion?On teaching, Twitter and being a Gator 
As a ﬁ  rst-semester freshman president, I am ex-
periencing everything at UF for the ﬁ  rst time. 
It’s intimidating not to know how to ﬁ  nd my 
way around campus but inspiring to discover the won-
ders of our spectacular university and beautiful campus.
Among my other new adventures: A few weeks ago 
I sent my ﬁ  rst-ever tweet, and last week I attended my 
ﬁ  rst UF class.
I joined undergraduates in professor Steven Noll’s 
popular Florida History course — AMH 3423 — and learned about the Progressive Era, Gov. Napoleon Bro-
ward and the founding of UF.
 It was a joy to watch professor Noll as he taught 
without PowerPoint or handouts, relying on his vast 
storehouse of knowledge, rapid-ﬁ  re Q&A lecture style 
and obviously warm rapport with his students. 
He is clearly a master teacher, and I was reminded 
why it is such a privilege to be in a community that cel-
ebrates learning and great teaching in all disciplines.
There is considerable focus nationally and at UF on 
science, technology, engineering and math — or STEM — and these disciplines’ importance in driving econom-ic development. 
Although my own area of teaching and research is 
computer engineering, I have found the courses that made the most difference in my personal life have been in the humanities, arts and social sciences. 
UF offers great teaching and scholarship across the 
disciplines, all of which contribute uniquely and impor-
tantly to our state and global society.
With help from the students on the Alligator edito-
rial board, I learned how to tweet and retweet late last 
month. 
My tweet about professor Noll’s class was favorited 
by nearly 100 students and others. 
When I tweeted out a greeting to the newly admitted 
class of 2019 (#UF19), the hundreds of retweets made very clear the excitement of those admitted into our most selective class ever. 
We had 30,800 applicants for 
an estimated 6,500 spots next year.
When I retweeted a recent 
public university national ranking that placed UF at No. 
7, more than 500 others on Twitter also expressed their pride. 
Through Twitter, large events and personal meet-
ings, I’m learning that members of the Gator family are vocal and committed in their support for UF and its fu-ture — especially our students!
Although I am an amateur at Twitter, it’s already 
helping me express my enthusiasm for our amazing university. 
I am also working to broadly communicate UF’s high 
academic stature and our commitment to making a pos-itive and profound difference in the lives of others. The 
phrases “Gator Nation” and “For the Gator Good” tell 
everyone that we are a community striving for positive change in the world.
As one of the newest members of this community, I 
am meeting as many students, staff and faculty as pos-sible. 
If you see me standing in line to get a cup of coffee, 
looking for a book in the library, cheering at a game or walking across campus, please stop and introduce 
yourself.  
In the meantime, I hope you will join me on Twit-
ter @presidentfuchs — and see what I learned about the 
Top 10 Things Only Gators Know.
UF President Kent Fuchs will be contributing a semi-
regular column.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
This week is the deﬁ  -
nition of bittersweet 
for college students. 
Spring Break is just around 
the corner, but a few vital 
obstacles stand in the way of Spring 
Break destinations and the conclusion 
of the week. And by obstacles, I mean 
those dreaded midterms. Whether it be 
exams, papers or projects, these in-order-
to-pass-the-class assessments block any 
Spring Break fantasies of lying in the sun 
or skiing down mountain tops from our 
minds for the days to come.
Because we are now ofﬁ  cially halfway 
through the week, I encourage everyone 
to keep up the studying and complete 
any other tasks on your to-do lists for the 
week. Finish strong.
Midterms are not meant to be simple; 
rather, they are meant to challenge us to live up to our full potential as students. That, or maybe the process is just a cruel 
joke professors play on their students. 
Whatever the purpose, you got into UF for a reason. Don’t let the stress and ex-
haustion overwhelm you before Spring 
Break actually begins.
In college, stress seems unavoidable. 
This is especially true around exam pe-riods. A 2012 study by the American Psychological Association found stress levels in young adults are higher than 
the social norm. This is because young 
adults feel pressure to live up to societal 
expectations and maintain a social life as 
well. These pressures seem to be height-ened around midterm and ﬁ  nal exam pe-
riods, causing an increase in stress and 
anxiety levels among students. Stress is not going to make taking exams any 
easier, nor is it fun to experience before a 
week of leisure and adventure.
Instead, set a goal to keep stress levels 
at a minimum for the remainder of the week. Keep in mind time management and positive thinking while completing 
these goals. I highly encourage students 
to take advantage of their ability to plan, and access those time management skills 
from deep within. Sit down the night 
before and plan speciﬁ  c times to study, take lunch breaks and relax. Organization is the key to 
success this week.
Consider incorporating 
some sort of physical activ-
ity in your day to help release built-up 
stress. Even if it is just for 30 minutes 
at the gym or a quick lap through cam-
pus, exercise signiﬁ  cantly helps manage 
stress. Maintaining a healthy diet will 
also help you this week. Trust me, I love 
coffee and sugar-ﬁ  lled snacks just as 
much as the next person, but these types 
of foods cause you to crash later in the 
day. And with the pile of work we have to complete before Friday, crashing in Li-brary West at 4 p.m. is the last thing we 
want to do.
Regardless of whether you choose 
to adopt any of these suggestions for the next three days, keep in mind that 
Spring Break is just within grasp. Finish the week off strong and really attempt 
to keep your stress levels at a minimum 
until Friday. Not only is it beneﬁ  cial to your health, but it also gives a sense of 
accomplishment to carry through to next 
week. Even if your plans just include 
binge-watching “Friends” on Netﬂ  ix, 
that feeling of accomplishment and beat-ing stress will add to your well-deserved break. If your midterms did not go as planned, at least you got through the rest 
of the week without any stress-related 
breakdowns. It’s OK if you did; we’re 
all entitled to one at least once a semes-
ter, but save breakdowns for ﬁ  nal ex-ams when stress levels are at an all-time 
high. No matter the outcome, enjoy your 
stress-free Spring Break. You deserve it.
If you are searching for more infor-
mation about how to successfully man-age stress, GatorWell further expands on the subject on its website. There are 
lists of suggestions students might want 
to consider in order to accomplish the minimum-stress goal.
And in honor of James Franco being 
on campus today, have a safe Sprang Break, everybody.
Amy Coker is a UF English junior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.Midterms and their stresses: 
Spring Break is almost hereColumn
When the founding fathers created the 
American Electoral College, they cre-ated a buffer between the majority vote 
and the actual selection of the president. They were aware of the scary possibility of the elec-
torate being persuaded, bribed or forced to vote 
for someone who would mishandle power. So, they created a process in which voters express their preferred candidates, and then previously designated state electors vote, in most states, for the candidate who won the state’s popular vote. We, however, don’t have that sort of buffer in our Student Government elections. So, the nightmare that prob-ably kept our founding fathers tossing and turning is a very 
real possibility at UF. In fact, it may have already happened.  
Before the Swamp Party era, there was a similarly dominant 
party called Unite. They were exposed in 2010 when audio re-
cordings of a meeting between Unite Party members, support-ers and representatives of sororities and fraternities revealed some jaw-dropping voter coercion tactics. One sorority was praised for rewarding sisters with booze, and another was com-mended for disallowing pledges to eat until they voted. Fur-thermore, the speakers in the tapes condemned and applauded 
certain houses for respective voter turnout rates, which were 
measured by counting voting stickers. Overall, the tapes high-lighted some last-minute campaign tactics and demonstrated a disappointing overlap between SG and the Greek community. It actually happened at our school, and Unite won the presidential seat that year and the years that followed.
The party they elected was arguably the most 
publicly scandalous in UF history. At one point, Unite members were even seen trashing hun-dreds of copies of the Alligator that announced former head football coach Will Muschamp’s endorsement of an opposing party’s vice presi-dential candidate. Unite eventually realized it had one scandal too many, so it pulled off the 
old switcheroo and gave birth to Swamp. We will never know if Unite would’ve won any of its elections without coercing 
Greeks to vote. We do know, however, that those Greeks faced 
an overbearing force that uncomfortably impeded on their right to make their own decision and vote accordingly. Unfor-tunately, they’re not alone.
Similar to the way parents’ political ideologies inﬂ  uence 
those of their children, we, although often accused of being strong-headed young adults, are inﬂ  uenced by our friends. Whether it’s through direct conversations, shirts, statuses, tweets or Snapchat stories, we’re socialized to think that some 
ideologies are acceptable and others are not. That’s when we 
succumb to outside pressures, and we let voting decisions be made for us. Let’s change that.You have until 8:30 p.m. today to vote. The ﬁ  rst thing you 
can do is what we millennials call “research.” Go to Access’ and Swamp’s Facebook pages and learn about their candi-dates and ideas. If you’re still not sure who you want to vote for, have a conversation with a member of each party. I’m sure 
they’ll be all over campus hunting us down like they’re selling 
Gator Growl tickets, so put them to the test and see what’s re-ally behind their oddly-enthusiastic-for-9-a.m. voices. 
Then, ﬁ  nd the time to think and mentally isolate yourself. 
Decide who you’re going to vote for and why you want them to be your voice. To avoid letting your vote be rocked, as op-posed to rocking it yourself, leave your friends outside of this decision-making process. Lastly, take your Gator 1 Card or an ID and your UFID number to a polling location and participate 
in this democracy. Your decisions at the computer screen are 
completely conﬁ  dential, so don’t fear repercussions.
At UF, there is not an Electoral College; the future is entirely 
in your hands. Your vote will help decide who gets to handle the nearly $19 million-dollar Activity and Service Fee budget we generate when we pay tuition. No matter who you are or which organizations you’re a member of, your friends prob-ably don’t pay your fees. Therefore, don’t let them decide who you want to handle your money. Instead, rock your own vote.
Christopher Wilde is a UF biochemistry freshman. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.
Rock your own vote; don’t let anyone else decide SG’s fateColumn
Christopher 
Wilde
opinions@alligator.orgSome believe that much of 
the prejudices that plague our society stem from 
older generations, whose “tra-ditional” values are more often the thinly veiled discriminatory attitudes of a less tolerant time. Younger generations 
are so much more liberal-minded that the 
“activist college student” stigma is now a tired cliche. Baby Boomers sometimes paint this trend as a passing fad, a collegiate trend that fades with age and, supposedly, 
wisdom. This dismissive mindset is patron-
izing, and I ﬁ  nd the most likely explanation in the positive correlation between a college education and social liberalism. Younger 
generations aren’t trendy activists; they’re 
educated, inclusive and tolerant. The lead-ers of social justice are continually getting younger, but they are no less aware or in-vested in the causes they champion.
I found such an instance in a story from 
Oakland, California, where two queer women of color created a Brownie troop of 8- to 11-year-old girls who promote activ-
ism and ﬁ  ght discrimination. These girls 
call themselves the “Radical Brownies,” and they earn their merit badges through activism and social justice. They participat-ed in the “Black Lives Matter” campaign 
in support of Ferguson, and they support 
sisterhood and breaking down oppressive beauty standards.
I cannot help but gush over this incredi-
ble display of young activism. With the me-dia painting the youth as disinterested and permissive, girls such as these are breaking barriers and dismissing stereotypes. The troop is overﬂ  owing with merit — if you’ll 
pardon my pun — with their diversity and 
focus on women of color being just one.
The Radical Brownies prove that times 
are changing, and they highlight how aware 
young children are of the political climate. 
The group is entirely made up of girls of color, and they have already experienced the sting of racism and sexism in their short lives. 
Each girl has varying opinions 
on a range of issues, and they 
are able to discuss and disagree in a way that many adults seem incapable of.
Because these girls have recognized in-
justice at such a young age, they’re able to block internalized sexism and racism that many others struggle to ignore throughout their lifetime. A badge for “Radical Beauty” 
is given to girls who can recognize the de-
structive beauty standards present in our society and realize that beauty comes in endless forms.
Some may argue that enrolling a child 
in such a troop is a kind of “brainwash-ing.” I can’t help but roll my eyes. Parents have no qualms about instilling personally held “traditional” religious and political 
views in their children, but if those views 
have a left-wing tilt, suddenly it becomes sinister. Yes, children are impressionable, and parents have a great deal of inﬂ  uence 
on a child’s worldview, but are messages of 
tolerance and equality so detrimental? Who can soundly protest teaching young girls to love their skin color, appreciate their own beauty, value their accomplishments or 
support their fellow girls?
Younger generations who embrace tol-
erance will undoubtedly grow into accept-
ing and open-minded adults, and young 
activists will demand change with their fu-
ture votes and voices. My generation is far more active, alert and angry than that of our parents, but a bulk did not become socially conscious until college. I can only imag-
ine the progress that the Radical Brownies 
will make in their lifetimes, or how many of their peers they will inspire to pursue a similar path of justice and activism.
Grace Hudgins is a UF journalism junior. 
Her column appears on Wednesdays.Radical Brownies troop gives 
hope for the next generationColumn
Amy Coker
opinions@alligator.org
Grace Hudgins
opinions@alligator.orgAARON ZEILER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Many YouTube videos depict 
drinking in a humorous light, but a 
new study suggests they are over-shadowing the videos that show drinking’s negative effects. 
Researchers from the University 
of Pittsburgh and Brown Univer-sity published Friday “Portrayal of Alcohol Intoxication on YouTube,” which analyzed the amount of views and likes for videos that showed al-cohol consumption.
According to the study, almost 79 
percent of the videos used humor, and about one-ﬁ  fth of the videos featured games and attractive char-acters. Videos that had these charac-
teristics received signiﬁ  cantly more 
likes than videos that did not display 
humor, games or attractiveness.
However, videos that showed al-
cohol in relation to injury or aggres-
sion received less likes than videos 
that did not show these subjects.
“I think if anything, the videos 
make alcohol misuse and abuse 
seem like it’s not dangerous and 
that it’s part of having a good time, 
when In reality this type of behavior 
is dangerous if not potentially fatal,” Alicia Baker, a health promotions specialist at GatorWell, wrote in an 
email.
Other than injury and aggres-
sion, Baker said other risks of binge 
drinking include stunted brain de-velopment, liver damage, sexual and physical assault and property damage.
Based on data from GatorWell’s 
Fall 2013 CORE survey, about 78 percent of UF students consumed alcohol between Fall 2012 and 2013. However, there was a 2.6 percent decrease in annual prevalence of al-cohol consumption by UF students between 2011 and 2013.
Baker said she thinks the impact 
of videos depicting poor drinking habits would depend on the person watching.
“I think if there’s already a chance that a person is starting to engage in drinking behavior or wants to ﬁ  t in with that type of social scene, then I think there’s a chance their drinking behavior could change,” she said.
Jake Misura, 19, said he is not affected by the YouTube videos of people drinking.
He said that while the videos may 
inﬂ  uence some people, the negative drinking habits would still be there even if the videos did not exist.“Even back before TV, I’m sure 
kids used to drink,” the UF me-chanical engineering freshman said. “I guess just adults around them do it, and they want to follow in their steps. Peer pressure, maybe.”
Humorous drinking videos don’t show downside
MORIAH GAYNOR
Alligator Contributing Writer
While many students will be running 
to the beach for Spring Break next week, a 
student-run brass quintet will be perform-ing in Jacksonville and the Florida Keys.
Audrey Bridge, Cara McDermott, Lucas 
Owen, Neal Romberg and Ismael Sando-val make up the Seven Cents Brass Quintet and will be taking their instruments on the road.  
“A speciﬁ  c word you could used to de-
scribe us is ‘nomadic,’” said Bridge, the French horn player and a 20-year-old UF music and biology junior.
The all-brass quintet was formed in De-
cember and is made up of a tuba, French horn, trombone and two trumpets.
McDermott, a trumpet player, said she is excited about the upcoming shows.
“We’re incredibly excited to perform for 
a completely different group of people in settings that we as students do not com-monly get to perform in,” wrote McDer-mott, a UF biology sophomore, in an email.
McDermott, 20, said the tour came as 
a spontaneous gesture from Sandoval, the tuba player. Sandoval was planning to re-
turn home to Key Largo for a few solo per-
formances and invited the group to come along.
The quintet will also perform at the 
grand opening of a Belk department store in Jacksonville.  
“Music is something I love,” McDermott 
said, “and I can’t think of a better way to spend a week than traveling with others 
who feel the same way and sharing our 
passion with a new community.” WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015
Protecting Personal Items
Don’t let mail build up. Don’t let 
newspapers build up. Close 
your blinds.
Leave a porch light on.
Try to do things that give the ap-
pearance that someone is home.
Don’t leave valuable items in 
plain sight.
Lock your doors.
If you’re not taking your valu-
ables with you, make sure they 
are locked up.
While traveling, if it’s not conve-
nient to take with you, put items in hotel safes.
Put bicycles in a well-lit, popu-
lated area.
Park your bike in the racks right 
outside dorms and outside the 
University Police Department.
Always use a U-lock device in-
stead of a cable lock, which can easily be cut.
Make sure you don’t leave your 
keys in your scooter.
Safe Sex
If you’re going to engage in sexual 
activity, know your limits.
Consent has to be a clear, unam-
biguous “yes. ”
You can’t give consent when 
you’re intoxicated.
People need to be clear when 
consent can be given, taken away and when it doesn’t apply.
If you are the victim of a crime, 
there are a lot of people you can talk to. It doesn’t necessarily have to be the police. Reach out to victim advocacy groups.Staying Safe
Do not drink and drive.
Guard your drinks — both alco-
holic and non-alcoholic.
Do not go home with a stranger.Do not walk alone at night.Inform others of your plans.
Skincare
Put on sunscreen with SPF 15 or 
higher with UVA and UVB pro-
tection.
Reapply sunscreen after swim-
ming and excessive sweating.
Seek shade and wear a wide-
brimmed hat.
Cover up with clothing and sun-
glasses.
Avoid using tanning beds and sun 
lamps.
Put on insect repellent with DEET 
or Picaridin.
Santa Fe College Safe Spring 
Break
Event today from 10 a.m. to 2 
p.m. at Oak Grove; S-29 in case 
of rain.
Event sponsored by Santa Fe in 
partnership with local law en-
forcement.
Organizers will give out tools to 
stay safe during Spring Break.
Cards designed to detect spiked 
drinks will be handed out.
31st Annual UFPD Spring Break 
Safety Fair
Event today from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
on the Reitz Breezeway.
Features University Police, 
Gainesville Fire Rescue, Florida 
Highway Patrol and others.
Organizers will give out tools to 
stay safe during Spring Break, including bike helmets.Stay safe this 
Spring Break
Courtesy to the Alligator
From left: Audrey Bridge, 20, Cara McDermott, 20, Ismael Sandoval, 21,  Lucas Owen, 
20, and Neal Romberg, 21, pose for a photo outside Century Tower. Together, the ﬁ  ve form the Seven Cents Brass Quintet.
CAMPUSUF students form quintet, to 
perform over Spring Break
CRESONIA HSIEH
Alligator Contributing Writer
Between working full time for the military 
and Department of Defense and earning his 
bachelor’s degree, Dion Bass hasn’t had a tra-
ditional Spring Break for nearly a decade. This 
year will be no different.
Bass, a ﬁ  rst-year UF law student, will join 
nearly 20 other Levin College of Law students 
and local Gainesville attorneys Saturday during 
The Florida Bar Young Lawyers Division’s an-nual service event “Raising the Bar.”
The division will partner with Habitat for 
Humanity to help renovate the house of a local 
single mother of four, said Nicole Cuccaro, one 
of the Young Lawyers Division governors.
“Habitat (for Humanity) is a really estab-
lished organization, so we were fortunate 
enough to work something out with them and 
fortunate enough to be able to give back to the community,” Cuccaro said.
This is the ﬁ  rst time in the past three years 
the Young Lawyers Division has chosen a date 
to volunteer over spring break.
Eleven other law schools — including Flori-
da State University, Stetson University and the 
University of Miami — will join the UF division 
for the service day.
Bass, 29, said he normally spends 10 hours a 
day in class, and this week he has to ﬁ  nish pre-
paring for a mock trial competition and write a legal brief. He said he isn’t fazed by the extra six hours of volunteering.
A former government worker for youth de-
velopment, he said he is passionate about in-stilling civic responsibility and that giving back is one of the most important actions in life.
Bass won’t be alone on Saturday, though. 
His wife and 2-year-old son will be working 
alongside him.
“She’s just as dedicated to community ser-
vice as I am,” Bass said of his wife.UF law students 
spending break volunteering 
Tips provided by Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokeswoman Becky 
Butscher, University Police Ofﬁ  cer Wayne Clark and Santa Fe College Police Chief Ed Book.
2004 2005 2006 2007 2009 2010 2011100%
90%
80%
70%60%
50%
40%30%
20%
10%
0%
got nauseated or 
vomitedhad a hangover missed a class
performed poorly on 
a test or subjectdrove under the 
inﬂ  uencebeen taken advantage 
of sexuallyhad memory loss“Have you experienced the following due to your
drinking or drug use during the last year?”
info via GatorwellWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
UTW Furnished Condo 4bed 4bath W/D all 
utilities, on short bus route to UF 1yr lease starting August 15 $375/mo per student. 352-586-6468     3-9-15-10-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    3-24-15-15-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    2-25-15-20-22BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse Double balcony;
One left! $1600/mo. 352-505-5049
www.crosskeysproperties.com       2-27-15-
10-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. 
Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    
2-27-15-7-2
1 BR / 1 BR - $650/month incl. utilities
Oaks Condos - behind mall / Starbucks6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable 1st floor unit. Lots of parking.Easy walk to mall, dining, RTS bus stop.On-site gym, pool, laundry facility.Contact (352) 219-5351 for info.    3-17-12-2
1BR/1BA CONDO FOR RENT.
W/D, fireplace, new appliances. Off 13th St., 
Creekside Villas. $600/mo. 352-870-0488    
3-9-15-5-2
2Bd/2BA Treehouse Village Condo
Tile flrs,w/d,new kitchen appliances.1.5 mi from UF. 2 pools, Secure 24 hr workoutfacility. Beautiful ground floor unit.$695/mo,$200 dep call 813-340-8982or cindy.choate@comcast.net     2-27-15-3-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
UNIVERSITY HOUSE APT (for re-let)5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent includes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $725/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-13-15-10-3Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-1291 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-27-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Student wanted to assist elderly woman with meals. Part time on weekends. Five minute drive from campus. $15/hr. Call Rosemary 703-638-0295 or hilleyjohn@yahoo.com    2-26-15-5-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
Now hiring all positions. Experience manda -
tory. Earn top pay in a family work environ -
ment. Apply in person 5 SE 2nd Ave.    2-27-15-5-14
babysitter - cooking skills, reliable,organised, references, flexible hours 
avgeorgieva@yahoo.com     2-27-15-5-14Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with
a love for children to staff its
summer camp program.
Positions in the camp are available in our
elementary school age day camps and
some half-day specialty camp programs.
Summer Dates are June 8-July 24 and
day camp employees
must be available for all dates.
For a complete listing of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interested applicants should submit a
resume to Buffy McTureous via e-mail at
bmctuerous@oakhall.org by March 13th.
Interview information regarding
group interview on March 14th
will be sent out upon receipt.
3-13-15-10-14
Help Wanted10-15 hrs per week in AlachuaPredominantly Farm/yard maintenance$12/hr cash3522583571      3-10-15-5-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  
4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     2-27-14-125-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Shop Local. Shop SmallSmall Business Craft ShowMarch 14, 2015; 10 am to 3 pmCymply Fresh/Cymple Room5408 NW 8th Avenue        3-13-13-20Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
"Guinea Keets and chicks for sale! Keets 
starting at $3.70, as low as $1.70, chicks as low as $1.10. 717-340-1034 or www.ChickensDirect.NET"    3-13-10-24
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Freshman honored
Alex McMurtry was named the Southeastern Conference Freshman 
Gymnast of the Week, the conference announced Tuesday. She posted scores of at least 9.850 in her three rotations in UF’s loss to LSU on Friday.Dedric Dukes and the UF track and field team are not feeling pressure heading into SECs. Read the story on page 14. Poll Question
Will Billy Donovan get his 500th career win at any point this season? Vote online at alligatorSports.org.IAN COHEN
Alligator Writer @icohenb
It took until the eighth in-
ning, but Florida finally pulled 
away from a pesky FAU team.
With the score tied at sev-
en, Buddy Reed waltzed down 
the third base line to score af-ter a FAU throwing error. 
Next, Richie Martin scored 
on an A.J. Puk RBI fielder’s 
choice, and Jason Lombar-
dozzi reached home after Josh Tobias got his first hit of the 
night.
Behind 13 hits, No. 6 Flori-
da (7-1) defeated FAU 10-8 on 
Tuesday night.
Despite the win, it was a 
rough game for Florida’s pitch-
ers, who allowed 10 hits while 
recording just five strikeouts. Coach Kevin O’Sullivan was 
forced to play six different 
pitchers to close out the Owls.
“We had some pitchers 
go to the mound tonight that were a little inconsistent,” 
O’Sullivan said. “We’ve got 
to find some consistency on 
the mound. We’ve got to jump 
ahead of the count. We’ve got 
to throw and pitch like we’re capable.”
FAU challenged UF’s de-
fense for most of the night, 
but the Gators saw strong play 
from Harrison Bader, who 
made two diving catches in 
center field to save two poten-
tial runs. 
But for the second time this 
season, the junior was quiet on the offensive end, going 0-for-
4 with two strikeouts.The game was scoreless 
until the second inning, when FAU’s Christian Dicks dou-
bled to left field, scoring run-
ners at second and third base. 
The Owls increased the 
lead to three after a Brett Mo-
rales wild pitch.
Morales, who was pulled 
in the third inning for right-
hander Shaun Anderson, al-
lowed four hits and three runs in 2.2 innings.
Florida got on the board 
in the top of the third after a RBI single from freshman J.J. 
Schwarz. 
In the fourth, Ryan Larson 
scored off a line-drive single 
from freshman Dalton Guth-
rie. Florida’s next two batters — Buddy Reed and Richie 
Martin — batted in one run 
apiece to tie the game at three.
A total of seven runs were 
scored in the sixth inning, be-
ginning with two hits from 
Martin and Schwarz, who 
combined for five RBIs and 
five hits against FAU.
Danny Young took the 
mound for Florida, but was soon pulled for Aaron Rhodes 
after giving up one run and 
loading the bases.
After Florida broke the tie 
in the eighth inning, it held on 
to the lead to earn its second 
straight victory.
“There were some posi-
tives,” O’Sullivan said. “We just gotta play better defense 
and we gotta make some bet-
ter pitches and get ahead of 
 IT IS THE SAME WEEK AS THE 
SPRING GAME.
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Florida’s Pro Day will be held later than 
usual this year.Normally held in 
mid-March, the an-
nual event for UF football players to 
impress NFL scouts will take place on April 7 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, four days before UF’s annual spring football game. Scouts from most of the NFL’s 32 teams 
will head to Gainesville to see Florida foot-ball players aspiring to be selected in the seven-round NFL draft participate in vari-ous drills and on-field workouts.
Nine UF players already had the oppor-
tunity to showcase their talents to scouts at the NFL Combine, a weeklong event that ended Monday in Indianapolis, and have seen their stocks rise.
In mock drafts that have surfaced fol-
lowing the combine have defensive line-man/linebacker hybrid Dante Fowler Jr. and offensive lineman D.J. Humphries being selected in the first round of May’s NFL Draft.
Florida to host Pro Day in April in advance of NFL Draft
UF Fo otballJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Billy Donovan looks down the court during Florida’s 68-61 loss to Kentucky on Feb. 7 in the O’Connell Center. Donovan and the Gators fell to Missouri on Tuesday, keeping Donovan’s career win count at 499.
BASEBALL
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
With the season fading quick-
ly, coach Billy Donovan may 
have seen his hopes of winning 
his 500th career game before the 
season finishes fade away as well.
A depleted Florida lineup 
battled with Missouri on Tues-
day night before the Tigers used 
a late 25-7 run to pull away from the Gators and hand UF the 64-52 defeat in Columbia, Missouri.
Without leading scorers Mi-
chael Frazier II (ankle) and Dorian Finney-Smith (suspen-sion), UF fell into an early 17-11 deficit against the Tigers — a 
team on a program-long 13-game 
losing streak heading into Tues-day’s game.
But the strong play of Devin 
Robinson, filling in admirably for 
the injured Frazier, kept finding ways to score against Missouri’s 
frontcourt.
The freshman forward dis-
played a variety of mid-range 
jumpers and low post moves, in-
cluding a monstrous dunk with 2:28 remaining in the first half that swayed the momentum in 
Florida’s favor.
Robinson followed up his 
display of power with a three-
pointer, and Florida took a 31-27 lead into the half with the Gators 
(13-15, 6-9 Southeastern Confer-
ence) poised to bring home the milestone for Donovan.
However, the Tigers (8-20, 
2-13 SEC) weren’t going to just let Donovan become the young-est of 16 active coaches to win 500 games without a fight.
Missouri’s Namon Wright, 
who finished with a game-high 28 points despite averaging 5.4 points per game heading into the contest, scored the Tigers’ first 10 points of the half as Missouri took a 37-35 lead in the opening 
minutes of the second half.
What followed in the final 10 
minutes of the game was a col-
lapse of epic proportions that 
included missed free throws and 
uninspired defense by the Gators.
After a Jacob Kurtz free throw 
put Florida ahead 45-39, Missouri began to mount its comeback on 
the heels of Wright.
The Tigers took advantage of 
the Gators miscues and built a 
50-47 lead with 6:08 remaining 
when Eli Carter stepped to the 
line to shoot free throws on a Keith Shamburger foul.
Carter missed both free 
throws. A chance to cut the lead 
to one quickly became a six-point UF loses to Missouri, Billy D stuck at 499
Florida gets key 
hits late against 
Florida Atlantic
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 15 BRIDGET SLOAN COMPETED 
ON BARS AND HOPES TO COMPETE ALL-AROUND BY SEASON’S END.
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
When Bridget Sloan walked up 
to perform her first routine in al-
most six weeks, she had no fear. 
There were no questions swirl-
ing in her head about the durability 
of her ankle, how sharp she would 
be - nothing.
“Not at all,” Sloan said. “I have a 
lot of trust in myself.”
That trust led to a 9.9 bars rou-
tine, an impressive feat for some-one weeks removed from an ankle sprain that many - including the junior - thought would end her sea-
son.
But for Sloan, it still wasn’t good 
enough.
“When I landed, I was actually 
so upset that I didn’t stick it,” she 
said. “Rhonda (Faehn) was like ‘That was a great routine,’ and I was like ‘Rhonda, I could have stuck my dismount. ... I could have 
done better.’”
That’s the type of drive that 
encapsulates everything Sloan is 
about, and it’s why she believes she will be back competing in all four events by season’s end.
Sloan has grinded since the 
time of her injury. There were days where she didn’t want to leave her apartment because of the pain in her ankle, she said. But she knew she had to fight through it.
“I could either mellow and be 
sorry for myself and have my own little pity party or I could keep on doing life as well as I could,” she said. 
But now, with only three weeks 
left in the regular season, Sloan be-lieves it is time to find an extra gear in order to expedite her recovery in time for the postseason.
“It’s come down to the time now 
where if I can handle the pain, I’m gonna do it,” Sloan said. “I told Kelly (Bridges) - our trainer - yes-terday that mentally, as long as I 
know it can’t get any worse, I was 
like ‘There is nothing that can stop me.’”
And that was exactly what 
Bridges told Sloan: the injury couldn’t get any worse.
“As soon as she said that, it was 
kinda like a switch in my head that turned on and it made me real-
ize that I could come back on (all-
around),” Sloan said.
Her expectation is to accomplish 
that goal before the Southeastern Conference Championships next month, a lofty expectation consid-ering she has only added one event so far. But as long as the ankle con-
tinues to hold up as well as it has, 
it’s hard to doubt the junior’s will power.
The next step for Sloan is a re-
turn to beam, something Faehn said she hopes Sloan will be able to do 
by Senior Night on March 13 - three 
weeks away. But Sloan has other ideas.“Beam will be next week, for 
sure,” Sloan said. “I would love to do it this week - I’ll try to see if 
(Faehn) will let me compete, but I 
doubt it.”
14, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Bridget Sloan performs her floor exercise during Florida’s win against LSU last season. Sloan competed 
on bars last weekend, marking the first time the junior was able to compete since spraining her ankle on her floor routine exercise in Florida’s season-opening win against Ball State.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Dedric Dukes races in the 200-meter dash during the 2014 Tom Jones Memorial Invitational.
TRACK AND FIELD
KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator Writer @KBrut13       
 
As Florida’s men’s and women’s track and field 
teams prepare for the Southeastern Conference In-door Championship — the final chance for athletes 
to qualify for the national meet — the last thing on 
the team’s mind is pressure.
Despite facing four top-10 
teams on both the men’s and 
women’s side in this season’s in-
door conference championship, coach Mike Holloway refuses to let pressure become a factor in his athletes’ performances.
“We talk about a lot of things,” 
Holloway said, “but I never use 
the word pressure.”
The Columbus, Ohio, native said that the only 
time that pressure should have an effect on athletes is when they are not ready to do something that they have been preparing for.
Holloway likes to focus on the heart and on re-
laxation when it comes to the big meets.
“What we talk a lot about is pride and passion,” 
Holloway said.
“The big performances happen when you just 
relax.”
Holloway — who was recently voted into Ohio 
Association of Track and Cross Country Coaches Hall of Fame — noted that this meet brings out the best of the Florida Gators.
“If you look at our history, we show up at this 
meet,” Holloway said.
History shows that since 2010, both the men’s 
and the women’s teams have placed in the top-two in the SEC meet every year except for the 2011 and 2013 women’s team.Despite the 2011 and 2013 performances, the 
women’s team has won the SEC title in all of its oth-er conference showings in that time frame — cap-turing championships in 2010, 2012 and 2014.
The men’s team has finished in second place 
in every year during the five-year span except for 2011, where 10 SEC individual titles propelled it to 
a conference championship.
History also shows that the Gators, as individu-
als, take huge strides during the SEC championship 
meet.
At last year’s meet, junior sprinter Dedric Dukes 
entered College Station, Texas — the sight of the 2014 SEC meet — on the bubble for qualifying in the 
200-meter sprint.
But a strong performance gave him the country’s 
top time going into the NCAA Indoor Champion-ships.
In the same event, junior sprinter Geno Hall 
launched himself behind Dukes for the runner-up 
spot in the 200, as his performance resulted in a 20.58-second mark — one-tenth of a second off from 
his previous season high of 20.68.
The duo went on to clinch top-five finishes in the 
200 event at the national meet, setting then-person-
al records in the process.
Although he may not give the word pressure a 
thought, Holloway knows that this meet will be no cakewalk for his squad. 
He understands what is at stake and acknowl-
edged the fact that this meet is anyone’s for the tak-
ing.
“Every school has at least one or two or three 
athletes that are coming in here and trying to win 
something,” Holloway said. 
“We just have to remember who we are. As long 
as we go there, we take care of Florida, we’ll be fine.”UF not pressured heading into SECsAll-American puts up solid numbers in first event since ankle injury
“It’s come down to the 
time now where if I can 
handle the pain, I’m gonna 
do it.”
Bridget Sloan
UF Gymnast
Holloway
the count. I’m sure that they’re going to 
learn from tonight and be better because 
of it.”
Florida will next host Stony Brook in a 
three-game series beginning on Friday at 7 p.m..
“You know, theres a lot of guys contrib-
uting, and we’ve played a lot of different guys early in the year,” O’Sullivan said. 
“It’s very early and we’ve got a lot of work ahead of us.”
A radio broadcast contributed to this report.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
 THREE PLAYERS FINISHED 
IN THE TOP 10.
JUSTEN ROSENBERG
Alligator Writer @JustenRosenberg
The Gators women’s golf team 
entered the final round at the Sugar 
Bowl Intercollegiate Golf Champi-onship knowing it was in a position to finish as one of the tournament’s top teams.
After two rounds, the Gators 
were in fifth place and 10 strokes behind clubhouse leader LSU. But despite the fifth-place standing, with a team score of +22, the Gators’ best golf was ahead of them.
With top-10 in-
dividual finishes from senior Ca-milla Hedberg, freshman Taylor 
Tomlinson and sophomore Ma-ria Torres, the Gators were able to climb to the near top of the lead-erboards, finishing tied for second place with UCLA.
Hedberg, who entered the final 
round at eight-over-par, had a re-spectable day to close out the three-day tournament.
With a total of six birdies, Hed-berg’s 2-under-par performance led the team, while giving the se-nior her second top-10 finish of the spring.
“It was great to see Camilla 
score well today,” coach Emily Gla-ser said in a release. “She has had her patience tested over the last few months, but she continues to work hard and show her resilience.”
In addition to Hedberg’s stel-
lar Day 3 performance, the Gators enjoyed a solid showing from Tom-
linson.
The freshman continued to 
build off of her consecutive top-
25 finishes, shooting a career-best round score of -1, moving her to sixth place in the tournament. This marked Tomlinson’s first top-10 finish of her career.
“I’m happy for Taylor and her 
play this week,” Glaser said. “She was very consistent and mature on the course. “
Then there was Torres.Although she did not shoot 
under-par like Hedberg and Tom-linson, Torres finished the day at +1 (+5 for the tournament) and in 
a tie for 7th place. For Torres, this 
was her second top-10 finish of the spring season.
Junior Ursa Orehek capped off her tournament as an individual competitor. 
Orehek struggled, ending the 
day with a score of nine-over-par. She finished the three-day tourna-ment with a cumulative score of +25, placing her in a tie for 73rd place.
“We continue to get better a lit-
tle at a time, but it doesn’t always show in your scores,” Glaser said. “Today, though, it did and I’m hap-py about that for our team.
“We look forward to learning 
this week and preparing for the SunTrust Gator Invitational next weekend.”
UF women’s golf wraps up Sugar Bowl Tourney tied for second
UF Golf
Marley Boerema / Alligator
Devin Robinson drives the ball into the paint during Florida’s 50-47 win against Vanderbilt on Feb. 18 in the O’Connell Center. UF lost 64-52 to Missouri on Tuesday.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
J.J. Schwarz bats during Florida’s 7-2 loss to Miami on Saturday at McKethan Stadium.
Robinson scored 14 points
deficit as Wright hit another three-point-
er on the heels of a Robinson turnover.
Kasey Hill had a chance to keep cut-
ting into the lead, but the 60 percent free throw shooter went just 1-for-6 from the charity stripe in the final minutes.Missouri made sure to hit its free 
throws as the Tigers scored their final 11 points from the charity stripe, securing the double-digit upset win over Dono-van’s Gators.
For a coach looking for his 500th win, 
Donovan may have to look ahead to next season.HOOPS , from page 13
BASEBALL , from page 13Freshman had three RBIs NO. 1 UF PLAYS NO. 17 
UCF AT 6:30 P.M.
PATRICK PINAK
Alligator Writer @Pinakk12
The softball must look like a 
beach ball to Florida’s hitters.
After the top-ranked Gators 
smashed 16 
home runs and scored 52 runs in 
five games in last weekend’s Aquafina Invitational, Florida is off to a strong start to the season.
“This is one of the hottest hit-
ting teams when things are go-
ing (well), and maybe one of the 
coldest teams when things don’t go as well,” coach Tim Walton said in a release. 
“It’s a little ‘hot and cold’ 
(with) split personalities at times.”
So far, Florida’s bats haven’t 
gone cold, and the production is 
coming from every spot on the 
roster.
Senior Briana Little broke UF’s 
single-game record three home 
runs in Florida’s 20-3 win over 
Mercer Sunday. 
The very next game on Sun-
day, freshman Kayli Kvistad slugged two home runs herself in 
a 10-3 win over Mercer.
UF hitters are now batting 
.345 with 29 home runs through 16 games, and 11 different Gators 
have at least one home run. 
Six players have at least three 
home runs — including Lauren Haeger, whose six home runs are 
tied for the Southeastern Confer-
ence lead.
But Florida, which has faced 
only ranked opponent so far in 
No. 8 Michigan on Feb. 7, hasn’t 
faced a dominant pitching staff yet.
But the Gators will tonight.No. 1 UF (16-0) will battle in-
state rival No. 17 Central Florida (12-1) at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium at 6 p.m.
UCF’s pitchers have compiled 
a 0.56 ERA and struck out 137 batters through 87 innings this season, while surrendering just two home runs.
While the Gators have one of 
the best pitchers in the nation so far in Haeger, the Knights have Shelby Turnier – who won NFCA National Pitcher of the Week the 
same week Haeger won NFCA 
National Player of the Week.
Turnier boasts some gaudy 
numbers – she’s 7-1 with a 0.70 ERA and 77 strikeouts in 50 in-
nings. 
Florida’s lineup will have to 
be on its ‘A’ game if it faces the 
junior or anyone else on UCF’s 
pitching staff.
Walton said players like Little 
and Kvistad who don’t play ev-ery game will be important in the 
UCF game and the team’s spring break tournament next week in California.
“They may not start every 
game, but when their number is called, they’re going to go out there and give you their best,” Walton said. 
 HE WAS HIT IN THE FACE WITH A 
FASTBALL IN SEPTEMBER.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
JUPITER, Fla. — Giancarlo Stanton ar-
rived at spring training in the same old 
Maserati he drove last year. It didn’t even sport a vanity plate.
“I haven’t changed at all,” Stanton said 
Tuesday.
The Miami Marlins hope not. They signed 
their slugger in November to a record $325 million, 13-year contract, and all they want for their investment is more of the same.
But much was different as the Marlins 
held their first full-squad workout of spring training. There were more fans and more media, because of both Stanton and Ichiro 
Suzuki, who was acquired in the offseason 
and reported to camp tailed by his usual en-tourage of Japanese reporters.
There were more expectations, too. While 
the Marlins haven’t been to the postseason since 2003, a productive winter allowed players to talk about contending without sounding silly.
Stanton hedged, however, when asked if 
the Marlins are a playoff team.
“Yes,” he said, before quickly adding, 
“We’ll see. ... We have the caliber and talent to be there, of course. What we are going to do come August and September, that’s up to us.”
Stanton said he’s fully recovered from 
the September beaning that ended his 2014 season and took him out of contention for 
the NL most valuable player award. Despite 
missing the final 17 games, he led the league with 37 home runs, increasing his career to-tal to 154. And he’s only 25.
“He has unfinished business, because be-
fore that pitch he was my MVP,” president of baseball operations Michael Hill said. “That injury sort of robbed him of that op-portunity. And he has unfinished business with this team. He’s the face of our team and 
wants to lead us.”
That face shows no lingering sign of the 
beaning, which broke Stanton’s orbital bone 
and damaged five teeth. He said his eyesight is fine, and he has no pain or fear about fac-ing live pitching.
“What happened to me isn’t one of my 
focuses to get past,” he said. “I’m just look-ing at this as a normal spring training.”
However, he does plan to try out a face 
guard to protect his left cheek.
“As long as it doesn’t alter playing or 
seeing low balls, high balls, whatever, I plan to wear it,” he said. “We’ll just see how the games go.”
The All-Star right fielder is part of an out-
field touted as perhaps the best in baseball, with 23-year-old Gold Glove winner Chris-
tian Yelich in left and 24-year-old Marcell 
Ozuna coming off a 23-homer season in cen-ter.
And then there’s Suzuki, a 10-time All-
Star who signed a $2 million, one-year con-tract. He’s back for another season at age 41.
“Hopefully it won’t look like I’m using a 
bat as a cane,” he said through a translator.
Suzuki’s not about to assume he’ll be 
on the bench much of this year as Miami’s fourth outfielder, even though that’s the plan.
“I’ll understand and accept that role,” Su-
zuki said. “But if you look at last year, I was the fifth outfielder. So we’ll see how it goes.”
He finished 2014 with 359 at-bats and hit .284 for the Yankees.
Stanton said the signing of Suzuki was 
one of the many positive offseason moves by the historically thrifty Marlins, who pledged in their negotiations with him to build a competitive team. Given the franchise’s di-rection, Stanton said, he’s 100 percent com-
fortable with his decision to sign a long-term deal, which happened to be the most lucra-
tive contract for an American athlete.
Facing a cluster of cameras and notepads, 
he was asked how he’ll guard against press-ing.
“That’s all your guys’ job, and everyone 
else’s — to put the weight on,” he said. “It’s 
my job to disperse it.”16, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015
AP Photo
Miami Marlins’ Giancarlo Stanton, left, and teammate Ichiro Suzuki prepare to 
take batting practice during a spring training baseball workout on Tuesday in Ju -
piter.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kayli Kvistad bats during Florida’s 4-1 win against Illinois State on Saturday at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. The Gators hit 16 home runs during last weekend’s Aquafina Invitational, with Kvistad hitting two in UF’s final game of the invitational against Mercer on Sunday.
MIAMI MARLINSStanton says he hasn’t changed, and Marlins hope that’s trueHigh-powered Florida riding offensive streak into midweek
UF Sof tball