VOLUME 109 ISSUE 114 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
McElwain building up UF support staff
UF also has injuries heading into spring 
practice, pg. 13. JJ Schwarz led 
the UF baseball team 
to a close win over 
Fairﬁ  eld on Tuesday. 
Read the story on 
page 14.
At-large City Commission Candidates
Read proﬁ  les on candidates up for election next week, pgs. 8-9  
Pro-life advocates tactics offensive while ineffective
Read our editorial on the anti-abortion signs, pg 6. 
86/64
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13ALI ECKERLE
Alligator Contributing Writer
The goal for UF’s Internet Mas-
ter of Business Administration program was to make it immer-sive, and now it’s top ranked.
Alex Sevilla, the assistant dean 
and director of the UF MBA pro-gram, said the Financial Times 
ranked UF’s online MBA No. 1 in 
the nation and No. 3 in the world among all online MBA programs.
The program started in 1999, 
when Sevilla started working for the university, he said.
He said the online MBA pro-gram includes an extensive four or 
10 day orientation program, where 
students participate in team-build-ing activities and learn to use the online system. It’s a small class size, and the faculty’s lectures are original and created just for them.
Sevilla also said students must do two-day residencies at the end of every semester. During the ﬁ  rst day, students take exams or give presentations.
They end with a celebration, 
sometimes playing golf.
The next day marks the start 
of the new semester, and students meet their faculty for their new classes.
“Our philosophy is to create a 
very dynamic MBA program ex-perience,” Sevilla said. “Technol-ogy is part of the program, but we don’t want that to be a limiting feature.”
Emily Bethel, a 19-year-old UF 
ﬁ  nance sophomore who hopes to earn her MBA, doesn’t doubt the integrity of the program.
“Because I go to UF and I’ve 
taken online classes before,” she said, “I think it would be a natural transition.”
UF ranked No. 1 in country for online MBA program, 3 in world
It was ranked by Financial Times
SENATE
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Senators at Tuesday night’s UF Student Senate meeting 
said goodbye to some members and welcomed newly elected members as well as a new president, president pro-tempore and members-at-large.
Following the swearing-in of senators who were elected 
this Spring, members elected Sen. Davis Bean as president and Sen. Leah Miller as president pro-tempore, both with 57 votes. 
“I believe I have the personality and leadership strength to 
reunite the Senate chambers,” Bean said before he was elected.
Following her nomination, Miller said, “I decided to run 
because I have been in these chambers for more than two years. I feel that I am ready. I know that I am here for the right reasons.”
Before the meeting of the new Senate, senators who were 
not re-elected said their goodbyes, including former Senate President Joseph Michaels who resigned. Michaels lost the race for Student Body president during Spring elections.
Among the senators leaving were Judiciary Committee 
Chairman Bronco Vuskovich, Budget and Appropriations Chairwoman Susan Webster and Sen. Hadar Arazi, who ran unsuccessfully as Swamp Party’s Student Body treasurer can-didate.
UF Student Body President Cory Yeffet gave his update of 
SG in the Senate chambers. 
Yeffet said SG has launched a new newsletter for students, 
and there is a new SGTV episode about SG elections and Ac-cent Speaker’s Bureau’s recent speaker, James Franco.
The meeting ended with Michaels giving his ﬁ  nal speech as 
Senate president.
“There’s an issue with SG … this issue isn’t one of unquali-Senate welcomes newly elected, chooses leadership positions
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Sens. Davis Bean and Sen. Leah Miller embrace after they are elected UF Student Senate president and president pro-tempore, respectively, during Tuesday night’s UF Student Senate meeting.
 UF IS LOOKING INTO ITS OPTIONS.
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Tiny clear wings are scattered across the 
windowsill by UF professor Andrew Tho-
ron’s desk.
The wings, split wood and tiny holes are 
the only evidence of the termites that live on the third ﬂ  oor of Rolfs Hall.
For the past three years, Thoron — an as-
sistant professor of agricultural education — has called UF Environmental Health & Safety about the problem, but he said there have only been temporary solutions such as spot treatments in which a chemical was used to kill termites when the infestations were small and localized.
Thoron said he remembers the termite is-sue when he was a graduate student about six years ago. He said he can sometimes hear termites chewing away at the wood while he’s in his ofﬁ  ce.
“It just kind of makes you wonder how bad it’s infested if you can hear the termites,” he said.
The termites in Thoron’s ofﬁ  ce are dry-
wood termites, said Don Orth, a pest man-agement worker for UF Environmental Health & Safety. There is no prevention for this species, he said.
Orth said spot treatment can be effective 
if the treatment is applied in the nest. He said Termites that plague Rolfs Hall won’t be cleared any time soonSEE SENATE, PAGE 4
SEE TERMITES, PAGE 4“I hate to tell people, ‘Don’t mind 
the wings on my desk.’”
Andrew Thoron
UF professorNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 114 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
THUNDER-
STORMS
83/60PARTLY 
CLOUDY
85/63PARTLY 
CLOUDY
85/64THUNDER-
STORMS
85/64THUNDER-
STORMS
86/64
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Hippodrome Cinema presents 
‘She’s Beautiful When She’s Angry’ followed by Q-and-A sessionThe Hippodrome Cinema’s next Cinema Lounge presents “She’s Beautiful When She’s Angry” followed by an in-per-son Q-and-A session March 10 at 7:30 p.m. The film resurrects the buried history of the out-rageous, often brilliant wom-en who founded the modern women’s movement from 1966 to 1971. Q-and-A ses-sion speakers include Kathie Sarachild, of Redstockings of the Women’s Liberation Movement; Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons, Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) project leader during Mississippi Freedom Summer, 1964; and Kendra Vincent, of National Women’s Liberation. Admission is $10. The Hippodrome Cinema is lo-cated inside the Hippodrome State Theatre at 25 SE Second Place. For more information, visit thehipp.org.
Turban Day
Sikh Students Association is hosting Turban Day today on Turlington Plaza. From 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. students can get a turban tied, learn about Sikhism and get a $5 Starbucks gift card. 
Gator Freethought
Gator Freethought will be having its fourth general body meeting today. Gator Freethought is a student group that typically consists of informal discussion on various topics, ranging from philosophical topics to cur-rent issues. We discuss these topics from our own personal backgrounds, be it religious or not, conservative, liberal, etc. Gator Freethought meets Wednesdays in Matherly Hall, Room 114 at 7:20 p.m.
Creative Writing Club
Do you love to write? Do you want to improve your writing skills while making new friends? Then come to the Creative Writing Club every Wednesday at 3 p.m. in Matherly Hall, Room 014. Meetings involve reading and responding to a short story written by a member of the group and then discussing the story with the whole group with a focus on constructive criticism. There are no re-quirements to join; just come and have fun with us.
Queer Women Empowerment 
NetworkLife is tough for college stu-dents, especially when strug-gling with a queer identity as a woman on top of work, classes than ever before — and vastly greater collections of 
information are the subject 
of science as scholarship. 
Simultaneously, the commu-nity of users for and uses of this information are changing. 
This talk reflects on trends 
in the generation and use of 
durable information assets in scholarship and science, and on understanding the chang-
ing relationship between 
consumers, purchasers and funders. Sponsored by the George A. Smathers Libraries.
Survivors of Violence Art 
Exhibit submissionsAlachua County Victim Services and Rape Crisis Center is seeking art submis-sions for the 2015 Survivors of Violence Art Exhibit held April 24 to 30 at the Civic Media Center and Wild Iris Books in Gainesville. Survivors are encouraged to submit original artwork of all forms, including performance pieces. For more information, call 352-264-6763.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.and internships. Finding opportunities to socialize 
with other queer women 
and release stress is hard. 
LGBT Affairs is offering a weekly discussion group that will connect you with 
other queer ladies in the 
area to chat, hang out and 
learn more about yourself and others. It is 7:30 p.m. ev-ery Wednesday in Peabody 
Hall’s Rainbow Room.
Florida’s Got the Blues 
Exhibition
Hear Gainesville’s music history come alive at the Matheson History Museum on Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. Stan Lynch, who is the founding drummer of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers will make a presentation highlighting his experi-ences in the music indus-try.  Tickets are $10.  As a member of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, for nearly twenty years, Lynch serenaded audiences with bestselling hits. In 2002, his talent for drumming earned him a spot in the prestigious Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In 35 years of drumming, Stan Lynch has played on recordings by Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, Bob Dylan, Aretha Franklin, Stevie Nicks and The Byrds. For more information call 352-378-2280 or email info@mathesonmuseum.org.
Pi Day 2015 at UF
Come out and celebrate Pi Day a day early Friday, from 11:45 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Marston Science Library-CSE Building overhang. Dean of University Libraries Judith Russell and Provost Dr. Joseph Glover will kick off the event at 11:45 a.m., followed by tabling, pie fundraising, contests and re-freshments. An awards cer-emony and closing remarks will be held at 2:45 p.m. Free and open to the public.
Scholarly Communications in 
the age of Big Data – Rules of Practical Information EconomicsA presentation by Dr. Micah Altman, director of research and head/scientist, Program on Information Science for the MIT Libraries, will be Friday at 11 a.m. in the Marston Science Library, conference room 136. More content is being created by scientists and scholars 
2, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqWEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
KIARA BEARD
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students with an interest in the 
nonproﬁ  t sector can soon receive a 
graduate certiﬁ  cate in fundraising management. 
The certiﬁ  cate program is avail-
able through UF’s College of Journal-ism and Communications but is open to graduate students from any ﬁ  eld as well as to post-baccalaureate prac-titioners, said program coordinator Kathleen Kelly. The program will go 
into full effect Fall 2015. 
The UF public relations profes-
sor and leading scholar in fundrais-
ing said it’s one more credential that could beneﬁ  t students.
“College students often don’t think 
of fundraising as a viable career,” she said, “but it’s not only a viable career — it’s an in-demand career.”  The nine-credit-hour program is 
likely to become the ﬁ  rst graduate certiﬁ  cate in fundraising to acquire a partnership with the university’s af-ﬁ  liated foundation, Kelly said.
“There has been a shortage of fun-
draisers for well over 10 years now,” she said. 
The program is one of a select few 
that is taught by a full-time graduate faculty, Kelly said. Most universities that offer the certiﬁ  cate program use practitioner adjuncts who come in and teach a course.
Bridget Robinson, a second-year 
graduate student in mass communi-cation with a specialization in public relations, is combining her degree 
with the program.
“Fundraising is a lucrative career a 
lot of people don’t know about,” the 
26-year-old said. “This program gives me the boost I need.”New certiﬁ  cate program 
available in fundraisingLOCAL
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
For a working parent living in the Linton 
Oaks neighborhood in Southwest Gainesville, 
taking a child to the doctor used to mean missing an entire day of work.
Jenn Petion, director of community and gov-
ernment relations for Partnership for Strong Families, which operates the Southwest Advo-cacy Group Family Resource Center in the neigh-borhood, said residents could spend hours on a city bus to get to the nearest health care provider.
A new health clinic aims to solve this problem.The Southwest Health Clinic, located across 
from the SWAG Center at 807 SW 64th Terrace,  is bringing permanent medical care to Linton 
Oaks and surrounding neighborhoods starting 
Monday.
The clinic will focus on disease prevention, 
women and children’s health, and dental ser-vices, said Dorothy Thomas, special projects and fundraising chair for SWAG. 
“This means that conditions that would’ve 
otherwise gone untreated, now they can actually 
receive routine health care,” Petion said.
The county owns the building, the Alachua 
County Health Department will run the facility 
and SWAG will hold an advisory role.
The clinic is the third step in a series of initia-tives by the group to support residents of seven 
low-income neighborhoods making up the area between Southwest 20th Avenue and Interstate 75. It is joining the already established SWAG Family Resource Center and a children’s play-ground in Linton Oaks.
A temporary mobile clinic has been operat-
ing from a parking lot twice a week while the permanent building was renovated. The clinic offered sexually transmitted disease testing, fam-ily planning and primary care from the back of an emergency medical trailer every Tuesday and Thursday.
“It has been at full capacity the whole time 
it was operating,” Thomas said. “We expect the 
clinic will be even more well received.”
Both paid and volunteer staff from the coun-
ty’s health department will operate the clinic. 
Renovations began in October. The ﬁ  nished product will house ﬁ  ve doctor exam rooms and four dental exam rooms. It will be open ﬁ  ve days a week.
A grand opening celebration will be held at 11 
a.m. Monday.
As one project is completed, another is in the 
works.
Thomas said SWAG is working on an early 
learning center for children under the age of 6 to help prepare them for kindergarten.Health clinic to open in SW GNVfied students,” he said. “We write people off before we get a 
chance (to known them).”
During the second meeting, 23 Swamp senators and 27 Ac-
cess senators were sworn in. There are currently 99 senators with the addition of the new senators from SG Spring 2015 elec-tions. One Senate seat is vacant.
Bean, the new Senate president, defeated Sen. Michael 
Christ, and Miller, the president pro-tempore, defeated Sen. Preston Jones. Both won by a 57-40 vote. 
Bean previously served as president pro-tempore and chair-
man of the Allocations Committee as well as the Budget and Appropriations Committee. 
Miller most recently served as Allocations Committee chair-
woman and was previously a member of the Rules and Eth-ics Committee and Budget and Appropriations Committee. In February 2013, she was the center of a scandal in which she sent an email to fraternity representatives during Spring elections asking members to collected “I Voted” stickers and donate $250 to Swamp Party. 
Sen. Ty Robare and Sen. Carter Long were elected as mem-
bers-at-large, who serve on the the Replacement and Agenda Committee on the interview board to take new senators in out -
side of the election meeting, as well as appointing senators to the various committee seats and chairs.4, ALLIGATOR � WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015
CAMPUS
ZEE KRSTIC
Alligator Contributing Writer
Having made and lost millions over the last 
25 years, self-taught business mogul Mike Fer-nandez can’t place value on the relationships he’s made.
Those, he said, are priceless.Fernandez shared his own American dream 
with a full audience of UF and Santa Fe Col-lege students in Emerson Alumni Hall at 4:15 p.m. Tuesday. Fernandez shared stories from his recently published memoir “Humbled by the Journey,” which highlights how his mea-ger beginnings turned into the $1.5 billion in sales he raised in just the past year.
Despite a lack of formal education, Fernan-
dez — the chairman of private investment firm MBF Healthcare Partners — has sold more than three different startups to American cor-porations and has gifted more than $100 mil-lion to charity in more than 20 years.
“If there’s a glass ceiling, I intend to break it,” said Fernandez, who worked with people like Magic Johnson and Richard Branson.
He said he owed his success to networking.  “My social circle did not include Magic 
Johnson,” he said. “I made it a point in life to learn about those who acted differently than I did and had more than I did.”
Fernandez also stressed the importance of 
humility and gratitude as well as not being afraid to fail.
“Make mistakes,” Fernandez said. “If 
you’re not making enough mistakes, you’re not pushing yourself hard enough. Mistakes 
are good: From success you only learn vanity.”
Latasia Polk, a UF international studies ju-
nior, is a first-generation Machen Florida Op-
portunity Scholar. She said Fernandez taught her to accept the chances she takes at UF ev-eryday.
“He said to live life with no regrets,” Polk, 
20, said. “Accepting the fact that I am first generation is important, and (Fernandez) rein -
forced that today.”Business mogul shares life story, advice with UF students
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Cuban entrepreneur and author Mike Fernandez speaks to an audience in Emer-son Hall on Tuesday. He spoke about his life, gave advice and signed copies of his book “Humbled by the Journey.”
BRIGITTE STAMBURY
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new electronic program will be 
replacing the original paper format that manages all UF grant proposals.
The UF Integrated Research Sup-
port Tool, or UFIRST, will be launch-ing its first phase Monday. UFIRST will be a single, online unified sys-tem where every department and unit of UF can manage all research funding.
After Friday, paper applications 
will no longer be accepted. Elec-tronic applications will be accepted 
Monday.
Stephanie Gray, director of the Division of Sponsored Programs, 
said research is defined as any schol-arly activity for faculty.
Therefore, research isn’t limited 
to labs run by scientists in white coats — the grants can also cover professional conferences.
Gray said there are about 3,000 
research sponsors within the uni-versity, so the program will become a direct communication between faculty and the federal grant portal, Grants.gov.
With UFIRST, faculty can go to 
one location to review their awards and manage them proactively.
According to the UF Office of 
Research’s 2014 annual report, the university has received at least $702 million in grants, with more than half coming from the federal gov-ernment.
The program is designed to be 
intuitive, Gray said.
“It’s like going on Amazon for 
the first time,” Gray said. “You don’t 
need training to learn how to buy 
something.” 
Adrienne Fagan, research coor-dinator for the UF Division of Spon-sored Programs, said there has been in-depth training for the support staff working with the program on a daily basis.
Fagan, who was part of the brain-
storming and implementation team, said the most challenging part of project was accommodating all of the departments’ varying business processes.
She recruited experts in grants 
from different departments to center 
the program around the people who 
will be using it the most.
“That to me is pretty unusual 
when it comes to computing for 
such a huge enterprise such as our-selves,” Fagan said.
Fagan said the program has 
received good feedback from the 
support staff, and there are numer-ous resources to train and guide the people who will be using it.
Phase two of the program should 
be launching in Fall. The third and final phase, a new award-manage-ment program, is set to launch in Spring 2016.
Gray said the goal is to create a 
common tool for faculty to bridge 
the gap among departments.
“This allows our faculty to re-
move one more barrier,” she said, 
“and allows us to grow our portfolio 
in our seek for preeminence.”
UFIRST to launch to begin streamlining UF grant proposals
“This allows our faculty to 
remove one more barrier.”
Stephanie Gray
Director Division of sponsored 
programs
SENATE , from page 123 Swamp and 27 
Access were sworn inTermites are usually treated with spot chemicals instead of full fumigation
another treatment called structural 
fumigation is also available, but it’s expensive.
During fumigation, the entire 
building has to be covered tightly 
with tarps, and gas such as sulfu-
ryl fluoride or methyl bromide is pumped throughout. The oxygen is consumed and replaced by the gas to kill the adult termites. The larvae termites cannot survive without the adults.
Orth said fumigation is almost 
100 percent effective, but he is not 
sure if UF is looking into that option 
or not.
He said the university does not 
have the proper equipment to carry out fumigation and would have to reach out to a private consultant.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
wrote in an email that the cost to fu-migate Rolfs cannot be determined 
at this time.
“An outside commercial fumiga-
tion service will have to be consult-
ed,” she said.
Sikes said fumigation is an op-
tion, but the university is still evalu-ating all its options. She said there is evidence of termites dating back to the mid-1990s.
Last week, there was a spot treat-
ment in Thoron’s office. Sikes said the process took about an hour and 
cost about $100.
Ed Osborne, chairman of UF’s 
Department of Agricultural Educa-
tion and Communication, said he believes the third floor of Rolfs Hall — and possibly the whole building — is infested with termites.“(Thoron’s) office is the worst,” 
he said.
Osborne said he has seen termite 
wings in his office and throughout the building for about 10 years.
For now, Thoron said he will 
continue to call UF Environmental Health & Safety about the issue and clean his office of termite residue regularly.
“I hate to tell people, ‘Don’t mind 
the wings on my desk,’” he said.
TERMITES , from page 1
Courtesy to the Alligator
Termites seen here have been infesting UF professor Andrew Thoron’s 
office off and on for the past three years.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
GAYE’S CHILDREN WILL RECEIVE 
$7.4 MILLION. THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
LOS ANGELES — A jury awarded Marvin 
Gaye’s children nearly $7.4 million Tuesday after determining singers Robin Thicke and Pharrell Williams copied their father’s music to create “Blurred Lines,” the biggest hit song of 2013.
Gaye’s daughter Nona Gaye wept as the 
verdict was read.
“Right now, I feel free,” she said outside 
court. “Free from ... Pharrell Williams and Robin Thicke’s chains and what they tried to keep on us and the lies that were told.”
The verdict could tarnish the legacy of 
Williams, a reliable hit-maker who has won Grammy Awards and appears on NBC’s mu-sic competition show “The Voice.”
He and Thicke are “undoubtedly disap-
pointed,” said their lead attorney, Howard King.
“They’re unwavering in their absolute 
conviction that they wrote this song indepen-dently,” he said.
Thicke and Williams earned more than $7 
million apiece on the song, according to testi-mony.Gaye’s children — Nona, Frankie and Mar-
vin Gaye III — sued the two singers in 2013.
Their lawyer, Richard Busch, branded Wil-
liams and Thicke liars who went beyond try-ing to emulate the sound of Gaye’s late-1970s music and copied the R&B legend’s hit “Got to Give It Up” outright.
The family “fought this fight despite every 
odd being against them,” Busch said after the verdict, which could face years of appeals.
Thicke told jurors he didn’t write “Blurred 
Lines,” which Williams testified he crafted in about an hour in 2012.
“Blurred Lines” has sold more than 7.3 
million copies in the U.S. alone, according to Nielsen SoundScan figures. It earned a Gram-my Awards nomination and netted Williams and Thicke millions of dollars.
Jurors repeatedly heard the upbeat song 
“Blurred Lines” and saw snippets of its music video, but Gaye’s music was represented dur-ing the trial in a less polished form. Jurors did not hear “Got to Give It Up” as Gaye recorded it, but rather a version created based solely on sheet music submitted to gain copyright pro-tection.
An expert for the Gaye family said there 
were eight distinct elements from “Got to Give It Up” that were used in “Blurred Lines,” but an expert for Williams and Thicke denied those similarities existed.Jury: Pharrell, Thicke copied ‘Blurred Lines’ from Marvin GayeCAMPUS
ASHLEY LOMBARDO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Brain Awareness Week at UF, 
which runs next week, aims to ignite conversation and educate the younger generation about the brain’s functions.
UF’s McKnight Brain Institute 
and the North Central Florida chapter of the Society for Neuro-science will sponsor the annual Brain Awareness Week, which will feature interactive activities geared toward educating local children in kindergarten through 12th grade.
Miranda Schwabe, external vice 
president of the UF Neuroscience Club, wrote in a message that this year, the society plans to speak to 19 Alachua County schools at the elementary, middle and high school levels, with an expected reach of almost 3,000 students.
Schwabe, a 19-year-old UF be-
havioral and cognitive neurosci-ence sophomore, said the brain is the most complex structure in the body, and there is much to be dis-covered.
Schwabe plans to participate 
for her second year and will assist in “brain art” exercises to teach the kids about dissection, neurosci-ence, brain anatomy and sensory functions.Brittany Butler, the event’s out-
reach coordinator and a graduate research assistant in interdisciplin-ary neuroscience, said the event will debunk myths about the brain and show the bigger picture of its functions.
“It teaches them how little 
things like drug abuse or not wear-ing your helmet can influence how you function day to day,” Butler said.
The week also benefits the sci-
entists, who are forced to discuss their knowledge in a way that is easy to understand, she said.
“Fresh minds are very impor-
tant in neuroscience,” Butler said. “You need fresh ideas to find new ways to navigate what we don’t know about neuroscience and dis-ease.”
Brain Awareness Week to give county students food for thought
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested two lo-
cal men Monday after they reportedly beat a man at a homeless camp for spilling a beer.
Just after 8:30 p.m., police arrested 
Roy James Giles, 39, and Vince Lee Pit-tis, 25, after receiving a phone call from UF Health Shands Hospital regarding a man in the emergency room who was badly beaten Sunday night, according to a police report. 
His eyes were swollenwith bleed-
ing in the whites of his eyes. He also had bruising on his back and a swollen hand.
The injured man told police that at about 8:30 p.m. Sunday, he was drink-ing beer at the Sweetwater homeless camp, located near 96 SE Williston Road, with Giles, Pittis and Pittis’ wife 
when he accidentally knocked Giles’ 
beer out of his hand, according to the 
report.
Giles knocked the man to the 
ground before he and Pittis kicked him 
in the head and body, rendering him 
unconscious, according to the report. 
The beating was hard enough to knock the man’s dentures out of his mouth and break them, he told police.
Officers arrested both men on 
charges of aggravated battery. Police took them to the Alachua County Jail 
where they remained as of press time 
in lieu of $8,000 bonds.Police: Man spills beer, 
beaten at homeless campBrain Awareness Week events, according to UF Health
March 12: Interactive lecture, “Brain Myths: Fact or Fiction,” in the Cade Mu -
seum for Creativity and Invention.
March 16-20: Brain Awareness Week activities in Alachua County schools 
include a visit from research assistants and postdoctoral fellows from the UF College of Medicine to teach about brain physiology and functions. Middle school and high school students will dissect sheep brains.
March 20: Keynote speech by David Sweatt, director of the Evelyn F. McK -
night Brain Research Institute at the University of Alabama at Birmingham. 
“Epigenetic Mechanisms in Memory Formation” will start at 2:45 p.m. in the DeWeese Auditorium at UF’s McKnight Brain Institute.
RALPHY LOPEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
In a packed lecture hall, five women ex-
plained that they wear makeup for them-selves.
Sisters of Lambda Theta Alpha Latin So-
rority paired with numerous campus wom-en’s organizations in a forum designed to highlight female empowerment Tuesday evening in the New Physics Building.
Alba Avila, a sister of Lambda Theta Al-
pha Latin Sorority, said the event brought women from organizations on campus to discuss the pressing issue of women’s empowerment within the UF community, something she said is often ignored.
“It is important to be around people 
who build you up and not tear you down,” Avila, a 21-year-old UF linguistics senior, said.
The forum was broken up into three sec-tions: “I wear makeup for myself because I like it,” “a girl should be two things: who and what she wants” and “cut yourself from the pressure to be perfect.”
They interacted with the audience, 
welcoming their questions and comments about how to better empower themselves.
Katia Suarez, a UF anthropology senior, 
said the forum was important for women to support each other and learn about is-sues faced.  
“We need to speak about the issues and 
raise questions on the issues in order to learn (about) how we can change what is going on,” Suarez, 21, said.UF student orgs host women 
forum to discuss empowerment
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Pharrell Williams leaves Los Angeles Federal Court after testifying at trial March 4 in 
Los Angeles. A jury says singers Williams and Robin Thicke copied a Marvin Gaye song to create “Blurred Lines” and awarded more than $7 million to Gaye’s family. 
“It is important to be around 
people who build you up and not 
tear you down.”
Alba Avila
UF seniorReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
79 TOTAL VOTES80% YES
20% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgTuesday’s question: Do you think the OU 
fraternity was punished fairly?Today’s question: Did you see the abortion posters? ‘Slut’: to reclaim or to make obsolete?
“Slut” is a common insult reserved for women who are 
seen as too sexually permissive, too promiscuous or who dress in a way that might suggest sexuality. In di-
minishing a woman’s status to that of a “slut,” her worth is minimized to her sexual behavior, and her sexual expression is shamed. Women are famously held to a different sexual standard than men — men are encouraged to engage in fre-quent casual sex to prove their masculinity, while women who do so are seen as used, tarnished or impure in some way. 
“Slut” is a careless insult, lazy and uninventive, given 
to almost any woman who acts out of her traditional gen-der role. It’s meant to shame and silence women back into submission, remind them they are wasting sexual cur-rency on men who aren’t their husbands and, in general, prevent women from acting in ways that men do.
Women sometimes jokingly call their friends “slut” much 
in the way we use “bitch” — or “betch,” as it’s more accu-rately pronounced — but often without the harsh malicious-ness the words usually carry. In an attempt to combat sexual policing and shaming, women often attempt to reclaim the word “slut,” changing the connotation and inverting the in-sult into normalcy. Perhaps by calling ourselves “sluts” we can alter the language used against us and force the negative to become humorously positive. Though reclamation seems a lighter alternative than anger to combat sexism, this meth-od is often ineffective.
Language is often inverted rebelliously while still pos-
sessing dual meaning, as we see with “bitch.” With words that are simultaneously complimentary and insulting, vo-cal tonality and intent thread a fine line between smarting feminism and tired sexism. In supposed reclamation, we seek to undermine the sting of a slur by chipping away at the foundation of the word itself. If women twist an insult into a compliment as an expression of feminine power — a “bad bitch” — does it still hold the same weight as an insult? Frequent usage of “bad bitch” has curtailed the harshness of “bitch,” but can the same be done for “slut,” a word more biting and more critical than its tamer sister?
Feminist dialogue on this issue 
often wavers between erasure and 
reclamation, but perhaps there is a third alternative. Erasure seems the least likely — after all, history tells us that prohib-iting a word will only make its targeted usage more painful and effective. 
Reclamation often clouds the lines between insult and 
compliment. For some, reclaiming the word represents a small victory against microaggressions, an inversion of a word born in misogyny. The appeal is evident, trendy even, as Nicki Minaj calls herself a “bad bitch.” But as I sing along, I often wonder: Are “slut” and “bitch” the best things women can call each other? Can we not reach beyond inversion to something better?
Emily Lindin recently spoke to the aptly named Bitch 
Magazine about her work with The Unslut Project, a group seeking to make the word “slut” obsolete. Acts of reclama-tion are often misinterpreted, and “slut” — unlike “bitch” — seems to firmly retain its negative connotation. It is hurtful and offensive to a higher degree than other gender-specific insults. Lindin looks toward a future where “slut” will be a historic relic along with “floozy” or “harlot” — something you chuckle at, surprised by its antiquated hollowness. 
“Slut” is simply an insult of perception — a judgment 
of someone else based on another’s opinion of how women ought to behave, no more useful or effective than insulting someone’s shoe size. 
Perhaps letting “slut” die a slow, painful death is best. In-
stead of beating “slut” into normalcy, we can banish it into uselessness and force our thinking further, to question the very mindset deeming slurs based on perceived sexual be-havior as acceptable.
Amy Coker is a UF English junior. Her column appears on 
Wednesdays.Pro-life advocates 
tactics offensive 
while ineffective
UF’s most unsettling annual tradition rolled into town 
Tuesday, as anyone who had the displeasure of walk-ing on Turlington Plaza or the Plaza of the Americas 
knows.
Every Spring, dozens of pro-life activists descend on these 
and other high-traffic areas of campus. They’re members of an Ohio-based organization called “Created Equal,” on a tour through major universities in Florida because we’re a politi-cally valuable state. They call this a “Justice Ride,” fancying themselves as the 21st century Freedom Riders — their website plays an audio-recording loop of the “I Have a Dream” speech.
They argue against abortion on the grounds that it’s a viola-
tion of human rights. Abortion, they say, is an ugly crime of ageism: discriminating against individual persons on the basis 
of age. Though it depends on one’s definition of what consti-
tutes “personhood,” at least it’s an arguable position.
Being pro-choice makes it difficult to get along with activ-
ists who dedicate their lives to an opposing cause. But the belief itself that abortion is wrong isn’t alarming or even offensive.
But the problem we, and most other students, have with 
Created Equal is not its position. What concerns us is that Cre-ated Equal and its advocates use incredibly graphic photos of what they call “abortion victims” — aborted fetuses — on large 
signs and posters in areas of campus that are hard to avoid. To-
day, they’ll be playing a loop of similar images on a Jumbotron.
These tactics go beyond rhetoric. Most people have a fully 
formed opinion on abortion; few are undecided or swing from 
one view to the other. Photos of aborted fetuses will not cause people’s views to suddenly change. The supposed secret Cre-ated Equal so gratefully shares with us on its posters is: “Abor-tion isn’t a pretty thing.” Here’s the deal: This isn’t a surprise to anyone. We’ve formed our thoughts on abortion, be they for or against the right, knowing what goes on in those clinics. It’s not like pro-choice people have been told fetuses are laid to rest on silk sheets after they’re removed from the womb, completely 
intact.
Displaying images like these isn’t an act of informing an 
ignorant public. These posters are propaganda to deliberate-
ly scare, intimidate and demonize women who have gotten abortions by extremists with a flair for the traumatic. They are meant to publicly shame women for making a private choice. They bring unnecessary pain, suffering and anxiety to students of every background. They reduce this important, nuanced is-sue to a knee-jerk reaction to the sight of blood and guts.
Is Created Equal totally delusional, or is its leadership do-
ing this intentionally?
Due to its self-reported years of “full-time pro-life work,” 
Created Equal’s leadership has become well-versed in the ins and outs of the abortion debate. They’re not idiots, either — and for all their extremism, they’re probably not delusional. 
They are here for everything but good faith conversation and 
dialogue.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORAmy Coker
opinions@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Abortion protest: degradation of 
our academic climate
I was profoundly disturbed by the 
indecent demonstration in the middle 
of Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday 
that featured graphic images of aborted 
fetuses. 
“Demonstration” is indeed a telling 
descriptor, as this tactic marks the de-
mise of rational debate and decorum 
within civil society.
I, along with my peers, have pur-
sued higher education as a means of becoming more aware of the complexi-ties of the world; to come to a reasoned judgment of the phenomena around me, and ﬁ  nd a means of engaging with 
them. 
The fanatical demonstration to 
which we have been subjected is anti-
thetical to the spirit of education and inquiry: It is dogmatic, polarizing and 
completely ignores the nuances of the 
issue.
Whatever one thinks of the issue 
itself, this provocation is wholly coun-
terproductive and even disingenuous 
in that it falsely insinuates that there is such a thing as being “pro” or “anti” abortion. Furthermore, the images themselves have dangerous trigger po-
tential.
I exhort the “demonstrators” to 
put down their signs and foster love, 
helping to create a world into which a mother does not fear for the safety or 
health of her child.
May we in turn struggle against all 
vicious attacks on our civil society.
Jordan MacKenzie
First-year UF linguistics master’s studentLetter to the Editor
When Beyoncé ended 2013 with a bang by releasing an 
unannounced album, Drake must have been taking notes. Last month, the Grammy award-winning rap-
per released his own unannounced album: “If Youre Reading This Its Too Late.” Drake’s album was not nearly as successful 
as the queen’s, but it held its own with almost 500,000 copies 
sold in its ﬁ  rst week. Drake’s lyrical talents earned him some praise from 50 Cent, and I was even tempted to tap the thumbs-up button more than once on my own Pandora. While his lyrics impressed, his album cover disappointed.
The handwriting on Drake’s album cover is amusingly 
similar to the handwriting that the Chick-ﬁ  l-A cow uses to per-suade us to “Eat Mor Chikin” — seriously, though, look it up — but that isn’t what bothered me. I was personally irritated by 
Drake’s decision to leave out two apostrophes and a comma on 
his album cover. The album’s background is white, and the black title consumes nearly the entire cover, accentuating the letters and the lack of punctuation. Now before you move on to the next column and deem this topic petty, allow me to explain how Drake just neglected centuries of history.
The rap genre was born in New York City in the early 1970s 
as a modern form of oral tradition. Oral tradition, just to clarify, is a community’s cultural and historic traditions passed down 
to younger generations by word of mouth or other methods not 
involving written communication. Oral tradition was present in this country prior to rap, however. Hip-hop journalist Davey D traces the origins of rap’s oral tradition back to when African-American slaves empowered themselves by creating a rhyming form of metaphorical communication that was indiscernible to slave masters. Oral tradition is still prominent in West African societies, where many of the slaves originated from. In this coun-try, it transformed into rap and empowered black youth by giv-
ing them a voice to broadcast the social, political and economic 
issues they faced. Rap, to this day, is used by marginalized com-munities to highlight the violence, poverty and negative effects of oppression that they still face.
What Drake apparently hasn’t realized, however, is that the 
rap genre he participates in is still oral tradition. Rap and its art-ists have been largely inﬂ  uenced by capitalism, but they still use clever rhyming schemes, pronuncia-tions and lyrics to achieve the purpose of conveying urban messages. One of the only forms of written communi-cation that rap involves is the album 
cover, which, very carefully, can be 
used to expand on the pronunciation of words. Tupac, for example, used the letter “Z” to clarify the pronunciations of his albums, “All Eyez on Me,” and, “Better Dayz.” By using the letter “Z” instead of an “S,” Tupac made it clear 
that he was specifying the pronunciation that would keep the album in the context of oral tradition. Drake did something very 
different.
Drake avoided the comma that could’ve separated the de-
pendent and independent clause, and he abstained from using 
apostrophes in the words, “you’re” and, “it’s.” That does not alter pronunciation or affect the messages passed down in the album. For that reason, his decision to leave out punctuation on his album cover is just illogical, poor grammar. It completely neglects the fact that rap is oral tradition that relies on the spo-ken portion of the music, and it supports the misconception that 
rap is simply a genre of music that lacks purpose and refuses to 
abide by standard English rules. That isn’t authentic rap.
Because of rap artists like Drake, who are unfamiliar with the 
roots of their own genre, stereotypes ﬂ  ourish about rap being a collection of uneducated young minorities rambling on about violence, sex and drugs. We can’t let these misconceptions thrive by supporting artists who engage in irrational illiteracy. Drake was most likely trying to appeal to an audience that is just as ignorant of the history of the genre, but it’s still unacceptable. 
He created a juvenile album cover that severed rap from its roots 
and purpose. He portrayed rap as a genre of insigniﬁ  cant illit-eracy, and he’s aiding in the appropriation of rap as strictly a proﬁ  table genre instead of a key component of a dynamic cul-ture. We can’t accept that.
Christopher Wilde is a UF biochemistry freshman. His column 
appears on Wednesdays. Drake’s album cover ignores rap’s originColumn
As most of us know, Sunday was International Women’s Day. Social media was ﬂ  ooded with posts, videos and tweets supporting women, 
equality and the need for change in order to recognize women in all parts of society. 
Celebrities of both genders took to Twitter, Face-
book and Instagram to show their support. Emma 
Watson gained the most attention with her speech about gender equality, which aired via Facebook. If 
you have not already watched the video, by the way, 
I strongly suggest you do. It’s very motivating and in-
spirational for both genders.
Other than the celebrities, 
what caught my attention 
Sunday was the launch of a campaign titled “No Ceilings: The Full Participation Proj-
ect.” Hillary Clinton and her daughter, Chelsea, created 
the campaign to bring awareness to the roles women play within society. It suggests women just “are not there yet” when it comes to gender equality. The cam-paign was taken further when prominent female ﬁ  gures were removed from magazine covers and billboards on-line and replaced with the words “not there” to show the impact women already have on society.
The campaign is creative and innovative. As a young 
woman, I support both its cause and its message. But that’s a given. Of course women of all ages are going to support equality and protest for its spread. Of course they are going to participate in campaigns and move-ments pertaining to rights, wages and protection. The most prominent, powerful women in the world can con-tinue to stand up against this issue. Still: It’s not enough to change society. It helps raise awareness, yes, but un-til more men decide to support the movement, I do not think society will see much of a change anytime soon.
The #NotThere campaign encourages women to con-
tinue their ﬁ  ght for equality. But I think they need to 
design more campaigns similar to the removal of female 
images on popular platforms to gain society’s attention. Yes, men and women alike will ask: “Where are the women?” but it needs to be presented to a larger audi-ence.
Men have the opportunity to inﬂ  uence change in so-
ciety. It’s disheartening to admit, but it’s true. If more prominent men took a stand for gender equality, cam-paigns like “Not There” would not need to exist.
Don’t get me wrong: A handful of male support-
ers have courageously showed their support already. Male celebrities like Nick Jonas took to Twitter to show their support with humorous tweets. President Barack Obama is even an advocate for Emma Watson’s website HeforShe.org and its online pledge, which was created 
for men to sign to show their support for gender equal-
ity.
But signatures on a petition are not going to cause the 
kind of change we need. While their voices help, more actions would too. If an inﬂ  uential man were to give a speech at The Oscars the way Patricia Arquette did about equality of wages, I guarantee an even bigger re-action would result compared to hers. Support for wom-en’s rights, protection, wages, equality and every related 
issue would increase drastically and immediately.
As a young woman, it is disheartening to have to 
wait for any results of equality to become public. Yet 
it’s exciting and moving to watch famous females take a stand for this ongoing issue, and it’s always interesting to see all the new campaigns that come out every so of-ten. But I have realized that, no matter how strategic the campaign or how famous the advocate, a man’s voice plays a signiﬁ  cant role in this issue if we want to imple-
ment change.
So with that being said: Men, start now. Sign peti-
tions and pledges advocating for gender equality. Let 
your voice be heard. Recognize women as your equals, not as competition. Support change. Fight for women worldwide, not just in this country — we sincerely need it. Take a stand and help women gain respect because, just like you, we deserve it. 
Grace Hudgins is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.Men’s voices are 
missing pieces for gender equalityColumn
Christopher 
Wilde
opinions@alligator.orgGrace Hudgins
opinions@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015 § ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Harvey Budd is good with num-
bers.
He ran an accounting business 
with other students out of a small of-
fice during his junior year at UF then graduated from the Fisher School of Accounting in 1969. Since then, he’s started his own accounting practice, built a motel and founded two TV broadcasting companies “before it was cool,” he said.
Budd, 67, knows what it’s like to 
be a business owner in Gainesville.
Now a candidate for city commis-
sioner at-large, Budd aims to provide equal opportunity for all Gainesville residents, to re-evaluate Gainesville Regional Utilities management and to help young professionals launch their businesses.
Budd, sporting an orange Gator 
T-shirt, sat at Bagels Unlimited in late February describing his plat-form.
His first mandate, he said, is low-
ering — or at least leveling off — GRU rates.
“There’s a lot of outstanding is-
sues that people are fighting over right now about the viability of the utility in general and whether we can afford to have a biomass plant,” he said.
He wants to establish an advisory 
board to serve as a layer between GRU management and the com-mission. The five to seven advisers would analyze the situation based on best utility practices in the state and provide recommendations.
He also wants to bring manufac-
turing jobs to East Gainesville. He wants to provide vocational train-ing and employment to the portion of the population for which college may not be a viable option.
“We desperately need jobs for 
everybody, not just the tech commu-nity,” he said.
Mark Goldstein, former 
Gainesville city commissioner and mayor, grew up with Budd in Gainesville and shares many of his views.
“He’s always had a sensitiv-
ity and concern for less advantaged people,” Goldstein said. “His com-mitment for the public interest has always impressed me.”
Budd has served on the Alachua 
County Planning Commission for 14 years, the city’s plan board for five years and on the cultural commis-sion for three. He’s a member of the 
Alachua County School Board One 
Mill Oversight Committee and is in-
volved with the Hippodrome State Theatre, UF Hillel and the Congre-gation B’Nai Israel synagogue.
The list goes on.
“The big thing is giving back,” he 
said. “That’s the secret of success by 
me: Give more than you take.”
Budd said he also wants to 
help young entrepreneurs through 
crowdfunding. If elected, he would 
choose one business or idea a month, market it and ask the community to donate to that particular business.
“It would be basically for inno-
vators — anybody in the commu-nity that has a good idea,” he said. “Rather than struggle with that good idea or sell it off to somebody else who steals it, they’d have a chance to develop it and stay in Gainesville.”EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
After dropping John Travolta off 
at the Oscars, Jay Curtis didn’t stick around.
He had a City Commission can-
didate forum to get to.
The part-time pilot will still fly 
the famed star of “Grease” around even if he’s elected for the at-large Gainesville City Commission seat in District 1 — just not as often.
Curtis said the commission seat 
is a chance to give back to the city he loves.
Gainesville is where his two 
children — 8-year-old Grant and 5-year-old Charlotte — go to school. It’s where he fulfilled a childhood dream of playing the bagpipes and where he and his wife, Kathy, 36, plan to spend the rest of their lives.
“I think at some point in life, ev-
eryone has to give back to the com-munity,” the 38-year-old said.
One of Curtis’ priorities is devel-
oping Gainesville’s appeal as a busi-ness city. Armed with prematurely gray hair, an aerospace engineer-ing degree and a master’s degree in business from Embry-Riddle Aero-nautical University, he moved from Ocala to revive University Air Cen-ter, which floundered in debt with only 12 employees. 
Curtis increased the annual bud-
get to more than $8 million with more than 50 employees. With two of his most valued employees from East Gainesville, he hopes to make it easier for UF and Santa Fe College students as well as East Gainesville residents to establish their own busi-nesses here.“My goal is to see Gainesville be-
come the No. 1 city to start a busi-ness,” Curtis said.
Part of his plan for development 
involves lowering energy rates and increasing environmental conserva-tion efforts.
“As an engineer, I’m interested 
in being as efficient as possible,” he said.
Curtis tries to set an example — 
he drives a purely electric car, rides 
his bike to work and uses LED lights.
Though the election marks Cur-
tis’ first encounter with politics, he 
said he sees his unconventional background as a strength.
“You’re not making political de-
cisions. You’re making analytical, managerial ones,” he said. “Seven people with seven different opin-ions will make better decisions 
than seven people who all agree. I 
think I’ll bring a good balance to the 
group.”
Having worked five election cy-
cles, Amir Avin, Curtis’ campaign 
manager, met with all the candi-
dates to get a feel for their personali-
ties and experiences. 
Though the 20-year-old UF fi-
nance junior said the race for the 
at-large seat had the most qualified 
candidates in recent history, he was 
drawn to Curtis’ background and humble personality.
“I saw an environmentally con-
scious Democrat with some busi-ness sense who would make good decisions,” Avin said. “I think it’s important Gainesville elects a city commissioner willing to listen, and that’s something Jay is willing to do.”ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer afisher@alligator.org
Adrian Hayes-Santos’ eyes lit 
up at the mention of his city.
A bicyclist and innovation-
seeker, he is a proud product of Gainesville.
“I love this city,” he said. “It of-
fers an amazing quality of life.”
Hayes-Santos, 30, is running 
for the Gainesville City Commis-
sion At-Large Seat 1 in Tuesday’s 
elections to further that quality for residents by running on a platform 
of economic development and 
government efficiency, he said.
Hayes-Santos grew up in 
Gainesville, where he attended Glen Springs Elementary, West-
wood Middle School and P. K. 
Yonge Developmental Research 
School. A UF alumnus, Hayes-
Santos earned a bachelor’s degree in finance with a minor in urban 
planning, then a master’s degree 
in international business.
He is currently the project 
manager of premium services at Grooveshark, a music streaming 
company started in Gainesville. 
A veteran of the startup scene, he 
was also the director of operations 
at ToneRite, a business that makes instrument tuners.
Hayes-Santos serves on several 
boards like the City Beautification 
Board and Downtown Redevelop-
ment Advisory Board. He also vol-
unteers as a youth counselor at the 
Florida Diabetes Camp.
Now he’s looking to get in-
volved in politics to take his ser-
vices to the next level.
A big concern of his is fostering job creation.
“Sticking with the status quo 
is not working for everyone. You 
have to be creative in your solu-tions,” he said.
Hayes-Santos said he will focus 
on making sure the city is working to provide job training. He also said Gainesville needs to diversify the economy beyond its colleges and hospitals.
He plans to bring affordable 
high-speed Internet, which will 
soon become a utility. He said ev-
eryone in Gainesville should have 
access to the Internet, and the city 
should be a leader in connectivity.
This will bring in more com-
panies and businesses, and it will 
encourage students to stay in 
Gainesville like he did.
Lauren Po is excited by Hayes-
Santos. Po, who currently holds the seat he is vying for, is endors-
ing him for his professional back-
ground and the relationships he 
has created within the community.
“He has an unusual set of tal-
ents,” Po said. “He is working to 
broaden the voice. The more di-
versity the better, and I think he 
has a good chance of doing that.”
Hayes-Santos said he hates 
wasting time and money, and he 
is encouraging the removal of bar-
riers. 
He said it’s time to reinvest 
money for a more productive city, 
which calls for safe and effective 
transportation, more use of solar 
panels and lower GRU bills.
“I love learning, seeing how 
things work and how to make 
them better,” he said.CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
Donald Shepherd Sr. believes in 
the golden rule: Do unto others as 
you would have them do unto you.
It’s the driving force behind 
Shepherd’s campaign for commis-sioner at-large.
Shepherd, who also ran for 
commissioner in 2012 and 2014, is basing his campaign on a promise to be the people’s representative.
“I don’t care if it’s day or night, 
call me, because I’m here for you,” 
he said. “I’m not here for myself.”
Shepherd worked as a ground-
skeeper for UF’s Physical Plant Di-
vision until 2011, when an injury 
forced him to leave. 
After that, he began attending 
City Commission meetings and 
campaigning for other candidates, which ultimately led to his first 
campaign run in 2012.
If elected, Shepherd wants to 
focus on changing towing regula-
tions in student living areas, on 
and off campus.
“The parking regulation needs 
to be changed so (tow trucks are) 
not allowed to tow vehicles with-out picture proof and without in-
forming the owner of that vehicle,” 
Shepherd said. “When I look at stu-dents, I look at students and young people as my own kids.”
He would like to see another 
bookstore built on campus — just 
one step in his goal of lowering 
textbook prices.
Shepherd is also placing his fo-
cus on Gainesville’s east side and 
encouraging growth through proj-ects such as malls and a second art 
museum.
In order to bring more jobs to 
Gainesville, Shepherd would like 
to see plants built along Route 441, 
such as a plastic recycling plant, and an amusement park to bring in more tourism.
Shepherd’s campaign manager 
and wife, Nancy Shepherd, said she supports him because of his dedication.
“There isn’t anybody out there 
who has really stood up for the people and the people’s interests,” she said. “He has vision. He has drive.”
Along with growth on Gaines-
ville’s east side, Shepherd would like to see higher pay for teachers, more oversight for Gainesville Re-gional Utilities and increased fi-
nancial support to low-income area 
schools. 
He wants to implement social 
programs, such as job training for 
residents of GRACE Marketplace, 
and a two-to-five year probation program for perpetrators of sexual assault and domestic violence.
“If I’m not going to be in that 
chair and do everything in my power and ability to help peo-ple to have better lives, to help Gainesville be a better place to live 
and raise a family,” he said, “then I 
don’t deserve to be in a chair.”
“If you want someone who is 
going to be in your best interest, then vote for me March 17,” he 
said. “But if you want someone 
who is just going to go into there and fill a chair, best of luck.”
Budd’s campaign emphasizes 
innovation, equal opportunity Curtis aims to make Gainesville No. 1 city to start a businessHayes-Santos looking to foster innovation through efficient gov’tShepherd campaign: growth for city, financial relief for students
Select Voting 
Locations
J. Wayne Reitz Union
655 Reitz Union Drive, UF Campus, 
Gainesville, FL 32611
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts
315 Hull Road, UF Campus, Gainesville, 
FL 32611
Florida Museum of Natural History
3215 Hull Road, UF Campus, 
Gainesville, FL 32611
SFC Center for Innovation & Economic 
Development
530 W. University Ave., Gainesville, FL 
32601
Thelma Boltin Activity Center
516 NE Second Ave., Gainesville, FL 
32601
Doyle Conner Building
1911 SW 34th St., Gainesville, FL 32614
Paramount Plaza Hotel
2900 SW 13th St., Gainesville, FL 32608CITY  
COMMISSION 
CANDIDATES
Election Day is March 17.
Early voting is through Saturday at: 
Cone Park Library
Millhopper Branch Library                
Supervisor of Elections OfficeAT-LARGE
Hannah Morse/ Alligator Staff Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffWEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    3-24-15-15-1
Housing for Homeless Veterans!
Volunteers of America offers housing for 
homeless veterans or those at risk of becom-ing homeless in a warm and supportive envi-ronment. If you or anyone you know may ben-efit from our program, please contact Woody at 352-642-8313 for more information. 
Two bedrooms with all utilities included!    
3-17-15-7-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294   3-13-15-12-21 BR / 1 BR - $650/month incl. utilitiesOaks Condos - behind mall / Starbucks6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable 1st floor unit. Lots of parking.Easy walk to mall, dining, RTS bus stop.On-site gym, pool, laundry facility.Contact (352) 219-5351 for info.    3-17-12-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-
3901    3-26-15-15-2
HOUSE - 4BR/2BA
Available 8/1. Lawncare, W/D, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. Drive by, see flier. 
$1400/mo. Call 352-256-8370 or 373-1558     
3-12-15-5-2
5 BEDROOM,3 BATH HOME.
WALK TO CLASS!
ASKING $2,850 TOTAL.
CALL JOHN @ 561.866.8234
FOR FURTHER DETAILS.
3-13-15-5-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 
2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    3-17-15-5-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    3-17-15-5-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    3-17-15-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
UNIVERSITY HOUSE 2BR/2BA APT(for re-let) 5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent in-cludes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $325/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-27-15-20-3$455/mo. 1BR/1BA currently available (ASAP). Great location Center Point Apts. 1220 NW 12th St. Lease ends on July 31st. Text or call 904-662-9065    3-13-15-4-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SCHOLAR’S HAVEN.
Grad, post-doc, prof. Contemp. furn. house in woods 1 mi. north of UF. W/D, piano, wifi, prkg. $425+util.262-3957. or mardavis03@yahoo.com    3-13-15-5-4
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
ROOMMATE NEEDED Close to campus in 2BR/2.5BA duplex. Near bus stop. $400/mo + utils & deposit. Available now. Share with male student. Call 904-608-7609    3-18-15-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-1291 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 3-20-14-73-13 
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
12, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with
a love for children to staff its
summer camp program.
Positions in the camp are available in our
elementary school age day camps and
some half-day specialty camp programs.
Summer Dates are June 8-July 24 and
day camp employees
must be available for all dates.
For a complete listing of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interested applicants should submit a
resume to Buffy McTureous via e-mail at
bmctuerous@oakhall.org by March 13th.
Interview information regarding
group interview on March 14th
will be sent out upon receipt.
3-13-15-10-14
Psychological assistant psychometrician
wanted for private practice.
Will require
1-2 months unpaid training to qualify
for 36-40 hour position at 10.50 per hour
minimum 1 year commitment. perfect for
someone wanting experience b4 grad 
school. Send vita to info@cpancf.com
3-16-15-7-14
ACCOUNTING ASSISTANTS
We are looking for accounting graduates or 4th or 5th year accounting students who have or are taking tax/audit. Earn while you learn while working with CPA learning mate-rials. Assist with customer support, research, critical reading, technical advising for video learning, special projects, editing and more.
Our employees have a great success rate 
of passing the CPA on the first try. Flexible schedules. Please apply online at www.gleim.com/employment or contact HR @352-375-0772 ext 122.     3-20-15-11-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors
Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Clean/Maint., Drivers. Apply today at 
suncountrysports.com/jobs.html!
3-17-15-7-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – August. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com3-13-5-14looking for a reliable office/home/apartment cleaner with own transportation and valid license/insurance w/ a good background record and drugfree... background checks and drug tests will be ran.... paying $8/hr if interested please call 352-214-0868    3-13-15-5-14
PT Job with UIFT Web Service. Quick learnerWeb Design experience (HTML, CSS)15-20 hrs/week, $15/hr.Assisting Web Developers migrate content into new system.email resume to Kim Standifer, standik@ufl.edu   3-18-7-14
1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing/fit gals/guys for part time driver position.  Strong student or recent graduate pre-ferred. +21 age req'd for insurance. $10 - $15/hr. Email cover letter and resume to gainesvillecentral@1800gotjunk.com    3-17-15-5-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary experience ideal      3-31-15-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-14-71-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Shop Local. Shop SmallSmall Business Craft ShowMarch 14, 2015; 10 am to 3 pmCymply Fresh/Cymple Room5408 NW 8th Avenue        3-13-13-20
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
"Guinea Keets and chicks for sale! Keets 
starting at $3.70, as low as $1.70, chicks as low as $1.10. 717-340-1034 or www.ChickensDirect.NET"    3-13-10-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Did you know?
UF pitcher Taylor Lewis earned his ﬁ  fth save of the 
season on Tuesday, which is tied for the second-most in the Southeastern Conference this season.Southeastern Conference honors UF gymnast
Kytra Hunter was named the Southeastern Conference Gymnast of the Week, the conference announced Tuesday. This marks the third time Hunter has earned the Gymnast of the Week honor this season.JJ Schwarz and the UF baseball team won a close midweek against Fairﬁ  eld. Read the story 
on page 14.RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
 Will Muschamp tried to build 
Florida into what Alabama is on the ﬁ  eld, with a style of play ready to line up and mash opponents 
into submission using unbalanced 
lines and “God’s play.” 
Jim McElwain is doing the ex-
act opposite. 
Instead of beeﬁ  ng up the pro-
gram between the lines, he’s fo-
cusing on what’s happening be-
hind the scenes, hiring a slew of 
quality control coaches, men that will never actually do a bit of real coaching. 
“Obviously they can’t coach 
on the ﬁ  eld and they won’t, that’s not how it is,” McElwain said. “And yet, some of the value as far as looking forward to some ﬁ  lm 
breakdown, things like that, is 
huge. And getting another set of quality eyes on your product that can kind of sit back and see a little 
bit from afar and bring some really 
good value to what you’re trying to accomplish. I think we’ve done that in those spots. We’re not ﬁ  lled up yet. We kind of (are) pretty 
close.”
Mark DeBastiani, Marquel Blackwell and Marc Nudelberg 
are among those that have joined 
UF’s staff in recent weeks, each 
coming from a different coaching background. 
Former Florida quarterback 
Chris Leak was a quality control 
assistant but McElwain has yet to 
announce if Leak will have a role in the new regime. 
There are still more names to 
add behind the scenes, but for now McElwain is content to build the program he wants piece by piece.
“The one thing you’ll ﬁ  nd out 
about me is I’ve got a lot of pa-tience in this,” McElwain said. “Until you see your team and re-
ally see what it is, maybe you 
don’t know exactly what part you kind of need to help the organiza-tion. That’s part of the discovery 
of where we’re at as a total orga-
nization. To see what we need to ﬁ  ll there.”
Injuries springing up as prac-
tice opens: The Gators enter Spring so thin along the offensive 
line they will not hold a traditional spring game because of it, opting for a game that has offensive and defensive scoring. 
Offensive lineman Trip Thur-man (shoulder) will not partici-pate in contact drills, McElwain said. 
Tight end Jake McGee will also 
be held out of contact drills as he 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida football coach Jim McElwain speaks to media members during a press conference on Tuesday in the Southeast End Zone meeting room at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
Notebook: McElwain building up Florida’s support staff
UF has injuries heading into practice
SEE MCELWAIN, PAGE 15
ALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer @alexmaminakis
In Florida’s second game of the 
season against a top-10 opponent, the Gators couldn’t hang on long enough.
No. 6 Florida (6-2) fell to No. 5 
Syracuse (6-2) 14-13 in overtime on Tuesday night at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Both teams went back and forth all 
night, but the Orange proved to be the better side when it mattered – at the end of the game.
With just under three minutes re-
maining, Florida led 13-12 and was at-tempting to stall and run the clock for as long as it could. 
When redshirt junior Nicole Gra-
ziano received a yellow card with 1:51 left in regulation, the Gators were un-able to ﬁ  ght off Syracuse’s attack and the Orange tied the game at the 1:14 mark, leading to an eventual victori-ous overtime for Syracuse.
“I think things that we need to take 
from this game is the fact that we can compete with the top 
teams in the country, but we need to ﬁ  nish,” coach Amanda O’Leary said following the loss. “We’re man up with a man advantage and we can’t stall the ball out, and that’s just un-acceptable. That’s something that we need to be better at that there’s no ex-cuse for.”Florida lacrosse falls 
to Syracuse in overtimeAIR JORDAN
Jim McElwain entered the Southeast End Zone meeting room on Tuesday with his usual composed demeanor.
He quipped with media members as 
he walked toward the lectern, 
bearing a notable smile on his face that has been present ev-ery time he talked to the press since being hired as Florida’s 
head football coach back in 
December.
But with Spring football 
practice starting on Monday, 
the smiles could easily turn 
into frustration in the blink of an eye.
When the Gators open their ﬁ  rst of 15 
practices on Monday, McElwain’s roster will be far from what he probably wants.
The numbers are against him.He has just seven active scholarship of-
fensive linemen.He has only three healthy linebackers 
with collegiate game experience.
And he doesn’t have a starting quarter-
back.
That doesn’t bode well for a 
coach entering his ﬁ  rst bout of Spring practices in Gainesville.
At this point, a normal 
Spring game to close out the practice season is almost out of the question for the second time in three years — McElwain 
even joked about going arena-
league style this year, heckling 
about players scoring off the nets in the O’Connell Center.
But even at that, McElwain is embracing 
the challenge, a commendable task despite the tall order he will face.
“We all knew this was coming, so it’s Roster limiting what Gators 
can do during Spring practice
Jordan McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
SEE COLUMN, PAGE 15SEE LAX, PAGE 15“Until you see your team 
and really see what it is, 
maybe you don’t know 
exactly what part you 
kind of need to help the 
organization.”
Jim McElwain
UF football coach
UF Lacrosse JJ SCHWARZ HIT A TRIPLE AND A HOME RUN IN 
THE WIN.
IAN COHEN
Alligator Staff Writer @icohenb
With two outs and the bases loaded, Josh Tobias could 
hardly bear to waste the opportunity, especially with Florida’s 
power-hitter Harrison Bader injured.
The senior stepped up to the plate and singled up the mid-
dle, sending in two runs and extending his hitting streak to nine games.
With a .361 batting average, No. 2 Florida defeated Fairfield 
8-7 Tuesday night, getting help from a two-run homer from JJ Schwarz and strong hitting from Tobias.
But the Gators almost let the game slip in the eighth inning, 
when they allowed five runs on four hits.
“They’re dangerous, and they’ve got pitching,” coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said of Fairfield. “Some things just kind of spiraled out of control in (the eighth), but that’s baseball. We’ve got to do a better job of handling tough situations.”
The action began in the third inning, when Christian Hicks 
doubled to left field for the Gators first hit. The freshman scored two at-bats later after a Ryan Larson sacrifice fly to center field. After Tobias’ single put UF up 3-0, Fairfield answered in the fourth with a two-run homer to come within one.
Dalton Guthrie was the next to score in the fifth inning on a 
Richie Martin groundout. Then Schwarz tripled, sending Bud-dy Reed home and increasing UF’s lead to three.
The Gators didn’t score again until the seventh, when Reed 
sent Martin home after a double to right field.
Next, Schwarz homered deep to left field, scoring two and 
increasing UF’s lead to six. The home run was Schwarz’s fourth this season and his 19 RBIs are the second highest on the team.
“Honestly, I’m just glad we got the win,” Schwarz said. “I 
could’ve gone 0-for-4 and I’d still be happy.”
Florida used seven different pitchers on Wednesday, three 
of which were used in the eighth inning when Fairfield cut the deficit from six to one.
“Bottom line, their job is not difficult,” Sullivan said of UF’s relief pitching. “You come in and get three outs. Just do what 
you do and be aggressive and compete and hand the ball over 
to somebody else in the ninth. I think at times they tend to over-
think things.”
Eric Hanhold (1-0), in his first start of the season, was Flori-
da’s most reliable arm. The right-hander allowed no runs and one hit and ended the night with three strikeouts. But the junior was limited to 40 pitches in just three innings.
Florida will wrap up its two-game series against Fairfield 
tomorrow at 7 p.m.
“I hope this adversity helps, but I don’t think we handled 
it great,” O’Sullivan said.” Credit Fairfield, they played really well tonight, and they probably feel like they deserved the win.”14, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015
FOOTBALL
MORGAN MORIARTY
Alligator Staff Writer @Morgan_Moriarty
Who has the edge at quarter-
back?
The battle under center is be-
tween sophomore Treon Harris and redshirt freshman Will Grier. 
Harris may have an edge 
thanks to the starting role he earned in the back end of last season, but Grier’s pro style skill set may fit better in McElwain’s scheme. 
McElwain confirmed during 
his pre-spring football press con-ference that there is no set timeta-ble to name a starting quarterback. 
Who will step up at tight end?Jake McGee was granted a sixth 
year of eligibility, but the Univer-sity of Virginia transfer will only be limited to drills with no live ac-tion this spring. 
The drop off between McGee 
and the rest of the tight end group is pretty big — the only tight ends with live game reps are redshirt junior Bair Diamond and sopho-more DeAndre Goolsby. 
Behind those two are early en-
rollee Daniel Imatorbhebhe, and 
redshirt freshmen Moral Stephens 
and C’yontai Lewis. 
How big of a void did Dante 
Fowler Jr. leave?
Fowler declaring for this year’s 
NFL Draft leaves a pretty big hole at the buck position — UF’s hy-brid linebacker/defensive end position. 
It’s almost impossible to re-
place a talent like Fowler, but look for redshirt junior Alex McCalister to try and step into the role. 
McCalister was behind Fowler 
on the depth chart last season but 
saw a significant role in the defen-
sive line rotation in all 12 games. 
He totaled 23 tackles and six 
sacks — the latter number being 
good for second on the team be-
hind Fowler. 
Outside of the buck position, 
the defensive line will benefit 
vastly from getting Bryan Cox Jr. and Jon Bullard back for 2015.  
What will the spring game for-
mat be like?
Thanks to essentially nonexis-
tent depth on the offensive line, it is unclear whether or not the Or-ange and Blue Debut will be a full game-type scrimmage. 
Florida’s 2013 spring game was 
more of a walk-through due to limited depth along the offensive line that didn’t allow them to have 
two full teams. 
With senior Trip Thurman out 
with a shoulder injury, the Gators 
will have just seven offensive line-man on scholarship during the 
spring — not to mention only Rod 
Johnson and David Sharpe took 
game reps last season.
How much depth will the 
linebacking corps build?
The lone senior in 2015’s crop 
of linebackers — Antonio Morri-son — will be out for spring due to a knee injury suffered during the Birmingham Bowl in January. 
That leaves a lot of room for 
younger guys to step up and gain valuable reps in spring that could carry over to fall camp. 
Juniors Jarrad Davis, Alex 
Anzalone and Daniel McMil-
lian will likely be in the pri-
mary rotation, but look for Jeremi Powell and Matt Rolin to earn valuable reps as well.  Five burning questions heading into Spring football practice
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Will Grier warms up prior to Florida’s game against Vanderbilt on Nov. 8 in Nashville, Tennessee. Grier is competing with Treon Harris to be the Gators’ starting quarterback next season.
Freshman excels as Florida wins close midweek against Fairfield
Aaron Albright / Alligator
JJ Schwarz smiles as he runs toward home plate after hitting a two-run home run during Florida’s 8-7 win against Fairfield on Tuesday at McKethan Stadium.
recovers from a broken leg suffered in 
the first game of last season. 
Linebacker Antonio Morrison is 
“attacking his rehab,” from knee sur-gery following his gruesome injury suffered in the Birmingham Bowl, McElwain is pleased that Morrison is 
still around the program while hurt, 
attending meetings and drills. 
Florida’s head man was not con-
crete about other injuries to the pro-gression of Bryan Cox and Jarrad Da-
vis, only saying that they’re “hurt.”
Finding another Fowler?: With 
Florida’s best pass rusher departing 
for the NFL, the Gators have a void to fill. 
Besides the unquantifiable, taking 
up double teams and creating for oth-ers, Dante Fowler had 8.5 sacks, led UF with 15 tackles for loss and was fourth on the team with total tackles at 60. Fowler’s motor and leadership are ir-replaceable and McElwain won’t try to do so. 
Instead, he’ll call on the rest of the 
defense to raise their game and pick 
up the slack.
“You don’t replace a Dante Fowl-
er,” McElwain said. “The guy is going to be a top 10, whatever, a top-five pick 
in the National Football League. That’s 
a pretty good league, by the way. So you don’t replace that guy. 
“What you do is the positions 
around that guy have to elevate their play to make up for that production. So that’s kind of how I see that when you lose dynamic playmakers on ei-
ther side of the ball. And so I never 
want to ask somebody to be somebody they’re not.”WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
MEN’S BASKETBALL
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Despite an overall down season from 
the UF men’s basketball team, the Gators 
still landed two players on the Southeastern Conference’s year-end teams on Tuesday.
League coaches named forward Dorian 
Finney-Smith to the All-SEC second team, 
while forward Devin Robinson earned a spot on the conference’s All-Freshman team.
This is the second sea-
son-ending SEC honor for Finney-Smith, who was named the SEC Sixth Man of the Year in 2014 
during Florida’s run to its first Final Four since 
the 2006-2007 season.The fourth-year junior from Ports-
mouth, Virginia, played in 26 games this 
season, starting 22, and led the Gators 
with 13.1 points and six rebounds per game while finishing second in total steals (32) and third in total blocks (23).
Robinson saw action in all 31 games 
this season and garnered 17 starts — 10 of which came during the 18-game SEC schedule.He finished conference play averaging 
6.8 points and 2.8 rebounds a game, both 
of which ranked 10th among SEC fresh-
men.
No. 8 seed Florida opens play in the 
SEC Tournament on Thursday against ninth-seeded Alabama in Nashville. Tipoff 
is set for 1 p.m. 
The winner will face No. 1 Kentucky in 
the quarterfinals on Friday. Two Florida players honored by Southeastern Conference
Finney-Smith
Syracuse tied the game with one minute remaining in regulation
Florida’s first lead in the game came on senior Shannon Gil-
roy’s fourth goal of the match, giving the Gators an 11-10 ad-
vantage with 18:15 remaining in regulation. From that point on, neither led by more than one goal.
Gilroy finished with four goals on eight shots while Nora 
Barry, Carly Ross and Shayna Pirreca each added two goals for the Gators. 
Barry also contributed a team-high five draw controls. In the end, though, it wasn’t enough to stop the Orange.“At the end, there was a game plan and we didn’t portray 
that game plan,” Gilroy said. “We need to do a better job of lis-tening to our coaches because they’re here for us, they know what’s best, and clearly we don’t all the time.”
A bright spot on defense for Florida was the job that junior 
Sam Darcangelo did defending Syracuse’s Kayla Treanor, one of the nation’s top scoring threats. 
Treanor was held to no goals and just one assist, but the rest 
of the Orange’s offense filled her void.
Kelly Cross led the way with a team-high four goals for Syra-
cuse, including the game-winner with 2:13 left in the overtime period.
This was the third time in the seven game series that a game 
between Florida and Syracuse has gone to overtime. Syracuse has now won all three. The Gators were visibly upset following the loss, knowing that the game was right there for them to take.
UF led 13-12 for 11 of the last 12 minutes of the game. That 
final minute proved to be the difference. They missed it by that much. And now Florida faces No. 1, defending national cham-pion Maryland on Saturday.
“We’re pretty defeated right now,” Darcangelo said, “but 
we’re gonna move past it, watch film and we’re gonna step it up for Maryland.”LAX , from page 13
MCELWAIN , from page 13Antonio Morrison still 
recovering from knee injuryFlorida football is limited at offensive line, linebacker
not a shock,” McElwain said. “But we’re 
going to have to adjust how we practice, the amount of reps we get and the different 
ways in which we do things from a practice 
structure.”
McElwain has a tough road ahead.Fans are expecting him to be the savior 
of Florida football — similar to Urban Mey-er after the firing of Ron Zook back in 2004.
They want to see Florida return to its 
glory days, the days where the Gators were contenders in the Southeastern Conference.
That could happen.Anything could happen.But for McElwain to have any chance to 
give fans hope about the future, he needs 
health to be on his side until his remain-
ing 19 recruits from the 2015 class arrive on campus.
One more injury — especially on that 
already fragile and inexperienced offensive 
line — and the Gators will be in serious 
trouble.“Even if you get one dinged or a couple 
dinged here and there, then that’s really gonna change how we do things,” McEl-wain said. 
“... There’s no replacing true reps and 
so when you see kind of how we practice, guys aren’t standing around.”
Spring practice will be an interesting 
ride for McElwain and Co.
He has yet to see his players practice up 
close and personal outside of watching film — some of which is solely from practice 
footage McElwain had to dig up.
If he can come out with a solid group, 
this team has the potential to surprise many 
in his inaugural season at UF.
But if any sort of injury bug hits the 
deck, he can be looking at trouble.
McElwain is confident he can get the 
work done, but at the end of the day, it’s a 
number’s game.
And right now, with Spring practice 
about to get underway, the numbers don’t seem to favor Jim McElwain.
Maybe time will change that.COLUMN , from page 13Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
UF’s Shannon Gilroy (8) fights for a draw control during Florida’s 14-13 overtime loss to Syracuse on Tuesday at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @CayUnderwood
After losing 4-3 on the road to then-No. 
14 Vanderbilt, the No. 18 Florida men’s 
tennis team was not only ready to be back 
on its home turf but also ready for some 
revenge against the team that ended its 2014 season in No. 10 Ohio State.
The Gators and the Buckeyes last met in 
the 2014 NCAA Round of 16, where Ohio 
State ended Florida’s season and its road 
to a National Championship in an upset 
loss 4-3.
“We had a great match with them in 
the NCAA Tournament in Athens (Geor-
gia) and it came down to the wire. It was exciting. We came up a point shy of win-ning, so we certainly kind of look back 
at that,” coach Bryan Shelton said. “But 
more than anything, just saw that in order to beat a team like Ohio State you’ve got to walk out on the court with conﬁ  dence 
and you’ve got to be able to execute under 
pressure for a long amount of time.”
But UF (6-5) couldn’t seal the deal, los-
ing 4-1 to the Buckeyes (13-4) at the Ring Tennis Complex.Doubles duo Oliver Landert and Joshua 
Wardell hoped to set the pace after defeat-ing Ohio State’s doubles pair of Chris Diaz and Hunter Callahan 6-3, but Florida’s two remaining courts lost their matches to give Ohio State the doubles point.
“When the pressure was at its great-
est, those guys played their best tennis,” Shelton said of Landert and Wardell. “So I can’t say that they did that in the last cou-ple matches that they’ve played together, 
but certainly today they stepped up to the 
plate for us.”
As the ﬁ  rst set of singles went into ac-
tion, so did the Gators.
Florida shifted into high gear to start 
singles, winning the ﬁ  rst set on three courts while putting up a ﬁ  ght on the oth-er three.
But after the strong start, the walls 
started to crumble for the Gators.
Florida dropped three singles match-
es after freshman Chase Perez-Blanco brought in the lone point for Florida.
The true freshman, who has yet to drop 
a match in Southeastern Conference play, has posted a point for the Gators in four of UF’s last ﬁ  ve matches and has proven that he is deserving of a spot in the start-
ing lineup.
“I think Chase Perez-Blanco just contin-
ues to grow and get better. He talked today 
just about what a privilege it is to play for the University of Florida and how much it means to him and how much he’s real-ized through the season that he’s more and more thankful every day that he’s here,” Shelton said. “He just really shared that with the team and I think he really gets it. He’s willing to do what it takes to be suc-cessful and so it’s fun to see the growth in him and the conﬁ  dence growing daily.”
The Gators come back on the court 
against Mississippi State on Friday at 5 p.m. at the Ring Tennis Complex.
16, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF men’s tennis coach Bryan Shelton reacts to a play during Florida’s 9-3 win against 
William & Mary on Jan. 10 at the Ring Tennis Complex. The No. 18 Gators lost 4-1 to No. 10 Ohio State on Tuesday.
MEN’S TENNIS
Florida falls to Ohio State in matchup of top-25 teams
“..in order to beat a team like 
Ohio State, you’ve got to walk out 
on the court with conﬁ  dence.”
Bryan Shelton
UF men’s tennis coach