By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
With their arms around each 
other, chanting in a circle on Turl-
ington Plaza, students and commu-nity members were united with the University of Missouri.
The Gator Chapter of the Na-
tional Association for the Advance-ment of Colored People and UF Dream Defenders held a peaceful demonstration Wednesday night to show their support for black stu-dents at the University of Missouri, whose protests over racial tensions on campus led to former Mizzou 
President Tim Wolfe’s resignation 
Monday.
The demonstration was put to-
gether Wednesday in about two or three hours, said Syleena Powell, an event organizer.
Students sang “Lift Every Voice 
and Sing” and chanted. The UF Af-rican-American studies junior said 
she wanted to have an event show-
ing solidarity while the Missouri protests were recent.
Powell, 20, said the campus cli-
mate at UF is similar to Missouri be-cause UF is a predominantly white institution.
While the group of about 175 
was chanting, “I believe that we will 
win,” three or four white students 
walked by and began mocking the group, Powell said. As the group clapped, the other students clapped sarcastically and made sounds.
“In that moment, we were deﬁ  -
nitely challenged,” she said. “That just goes to show that it’s here.”
Rakem Bess, a UF criminology 
and sociology senior, said he was shocked the students would mock them in public.But the group didn’t react, he 
said. After the students left, the chants got louder and there was a greater feeling of unity.
Kayla Esparra, a 26-year-old community member, said she thought the program was strong. She said black students are being targeted and need to be better rep-resented at universities.
“I was shocked, and I felt very 
fearful,” she said in reference to 
hearing about the University of Mis-
souri’s problems.
The demonstration showed  that 
Gainesville stands with Missouri, said Malu Behrende, a Santa Fe Col-lege anthropology sophomore. He said he thinks people try to make blacks feel like they shouldn’t be standing up for themselves.
“I just felt love,” the 23-year-old 
said. “They try to make these things feel hateful.”
Bess, 23, said he thinks the in-
cident shows that racial problems are on all campuses, including UF’s. The event was held to bring about change.
“That’s what we’re doing right 
now,” he said.
As the demonstration ended at 
about 6 p.m., Daniel Clayton, a UF electrical engineering junior, prayed with the group. They bowed their heads, and they asked God to be with them.
“We go on with our lives,” the 
20-year-old said. “Help us to be 
even more uniﬁ  ed after tonight. Let 
this be a part of something new. Let us get change done.”We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 57 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015
Florida men’s basketball team 
still a work in progress
The Gators open their regular season on 
the road Friday against Navy, pg. 17
Local workers rally to ﬁ  ght for $15 
minimum wage
Fast-food workers and professors attended, pg. 5
Check out the Avenue
Netﬂ  ix, photography and a Q&A, pg. 9-13For our veterans
See the photo story, pg. 8
Ashley K. Jolicoeur / Alligator
Heather Monae Jackson, 20, action co-chair of the Gator chapter of the National Association for the Ad-vancement of Colored People, stands on Turlington Plaza on Wednesday in support of University of Mis-souri students. “The primary message of the new generation is ‘Justice or Else, ’” she said.
GNV community stood with Mizzou Wednesday
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ten months ago, Chuck Hubert got a sec-
ond chance at life.
After serving in the army for 12 years, Hu-
bert struggled with daily activities, hindered 
by post-traumatic stress disorder. But when he adopted Liberty, a 2-year-old service pit-bull, everything changed.
“She bridged the gap between me being a 
home body to me getting out,” Hubert said. “I named her Liberty because she gave me 
freedom.”
Hubert was the ﬁ  rst veteran to take part in 
the Phoenix Animal Rescue’s PTSD Service 
Dog Training and Placement Program since its creation 10 months ago. He and Liberty came to the annual Veterans Day celebration in the Alachua County Veterans Memorial Park on Wednesday morning to support the program.
“I wouldn’t be here if it weren’t for (Lib-erty),” Hubert said. “She saved my life.”
Amanda Stoner, the veteran coordinator 
for the program, started the initiative in addi-
tion to the rescue service’s regular adoption 
program.
“Our veterans are coming home and are 
handed goodie bags of pills that don’t stop the panic attacks,” Stoner said. “I just know that we can make a difference.”
Stoner, who works with Hubert at the 
Veterans Association Hospital, mentioned how Liberty needed a veteran to partner with and Hubert volunteered. It took the pair 10 months of training before the adoption was 
complete.
It costs the program about $300 to train A veteran’s best friendCAMPUS
THERE WILL BE A“FOOD CHAIN” 
SCREENING TODAY. 
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
A group of UF students wants Wendy’s to 
ensure fair pay and working conditions for 
Florida’s tomato farmers, and they’re willing 
to stage a boycott of the Reitz Union Wen-
dy’s if necessary.
Chispas UF, a student group that edu-
cates other students about the issues facing 
immigrant communities, is trying to teach 
students this semester about Wendy’s not being part of the Fair Food Agreement, said Uriel Perez, a member of Chispas UF.
The Fair Food Agreement is part of the 
Coalition of Immokalee Workers’ movement to require companies who buy tomatoes from Florida farmers, like those in Immo-kalee, to pay an extra penny per pound of 
tomatoes.
To make students aware of Wendy’s not 
being part of the agreement, Chispas UF is 
co-sponsoring a screening of “Food Chains,” 
a ﬁ  lm that follows Florida farmers last year 
as they stage a six-day fast in front of Pub-lix’s headquarters in Lakeland. Publix has also not signed the agreement. The screening will be held at La Casita at 6:30 p.m. today.
Wendy’s spokesman Bob Bertini said UF group wants Wendy’s 
to give fair pay to farmers
SEE WENDY’S,  PAGE 4 SEE DOG,  PAGE 4“I named her Liberty because she gave 
me freedom.”
Chuck Hubert
Army veteranSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Moviendo Fronteras
Join Latina/o Diaspora in the 
Americas at 1 p.m. Thursday at La Casita, next to Chipotle, as they listen to and discuss im-
migration stories from their ar-
chives. “Why do Latin Americans immigrate to the United States? What are some of the myths sur-rounding immigrants and their journey?” are only some of the questions they will explore.
Gainesville Cholent Recipe 
ContestAs part of a year long series of events about Jewish food, the Price Library of Judaica, the Center for European Studies and the Alexander Grass Chair in Jewish History invite the community to participate in the first Gainesville cholent recipe 
contest. Cholent is a traditional 
Jewish dish, a combination of legumes and meat with the oc-casional addition of grain slowly simmered in a well-sealed pot. It is prepared and enjoyed by Jews and non-Jews alike. Submit a generations-old family recipe or your own unique creation to the 
contest. Participants are encour-
aged to think creatively and can also submit poems or prose, a description of a memory related to cholent or an account of emo-tions evoked by the dish. Please send your recipes to rjefferson@ufl.edu by Sunday. Awards cer-emony will take place Dec. 1 at 
5 p.m. at Pugh Hall Ocora on the 
UF campus.
Weekend Warrior: Functional 
TrainingCome out Saturday to Maguire Field to take part in the Functional Training Weekend Warrior from RecSports. This Weekend Warrior will help you learn not only why functional training should be used in your 
daily routine but how to use 
it. This Weekend Warrior will be using ViPR to train not only muscle but movements. No reg-istration is necessary.
RecSports TRiP zip line
Get ready to experience the thrilling canyons of Central 
Florida. It is time to treat yourself 
to a fun day of soaring through the air! On Saturday, RecSports TRiP program will be zip lining through the canyons of Central Florida. Register on rsconnect.recsports.ufl.edu by 5 p.m. Friday. The trip goes from 12 p.m. to approximately 7 p.m.
Gators for UNICEF Squat 
ChallengeWhile toilet day may seem like a joke, there are actually 2.5 bil-lion people around the world (1 in 3) who do not have access to sanitary facilities. It is also one of the most lacking of the UN’s 
millennium development goals. 
The goal is to raise awareness for this issue by hosting an event on Nov. 19 at 12:35 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas where they attempt to break the record for the most people squatting in one place. The current record is 118 people, and they hope to 
chomp that with more than 150 
people in attendance. Free pizza will be provided and the event will only take 10 minutes. So in-vite your friends and come out and squat with them. For more information visit facebook.com/events/1046268918719333/.
Dance performance
The University of Florida (UF) School of Theatre + Dance is pleased to present Agbedidi from Nov. 19 to 22 in UF’s Constans Theatre. Agbedidi is an invigorat-ing dance experience that merges African and modern dance styles 
into one high-energy perfor-
mance. This year’s production is directed by Mohamed DaCosta and will feature traditional West African dances staged by DaCosta as well as original com-positions merging African dance with African-American contem-porary and ballet choreography 
by DaCosta, Assistant Professor 
Trent D. Williams Jr. and visit-ing artists Iyun Ashani Harrison and Mouminatou Camara. Performance times are 7:30 p.m. Nov. 19 to 20 and at 2 p.m. Nov. 22. Tickets are $18 for the gen-eral public, $15 for UF faculty/staff and seniors and $13 for stu-
dents. More information is avail-
able at arts.ufl.edu/calendar. Tickets are available through the University Box Office by calling 352-392-1653 or at ticketmaster.com. Join the conversation on-line using #Agbedidi.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 57
HIGH  86° LOW  61°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
THE EXHIBIT WILL BE OPEN 
UNTIL NOV . 22
By Kendaline Watt
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF biology graduate students are showing 
off their research projects through artwork.
Eleven UF students are showcasing their 
studies at the Hippodrome State Theatre, and 
they will use photographs of landscapes and 
organisms to do it.  
The exhibit is free to the public, and it will 
be open until Nov. 22. On Friday from 6 p.m. 
to 8 p.m., the Hippodrome will hold a discus-sion with the scientists, who will field ques-
tions about their research and art, said Sarah 
Carey, the event organizer.
UF zoology masters student Mitch Walters 
said he is excited to see his work, which is five bird photographs, in a gallery. The photos demonstrate how the human population and urbanization affects birds.
“It’s a good opportunity to show another 
side of what we do, not just the publications or 
the research,” the 27-year-old said. “There’s a 
pretty cool side to it. I think it’ll get some pretty good attention.”
Carey, who also has artwork featured in the 
exhibit, said she created the event to make sci-ence easier for the public to relate to.
“(We’re) getting to share with everyone the 
general beauty of the subjects that we spend all day long thinking (about) and looking at,” the 27-year-old botany doctoral student said.
She will be showcasing seven original pho-
tographs, including one of a glowing moss pla-centa, which is a group of plant cells.
Hippodrome art gallery curator Chelsea 
Collison said it’s important to combine the arts 
and sciences.
“People see nature every day, but not in the 
way these scientists are going to allow them to 
view it,” she said.
Peter Houlihan, a UF biology doctoral stu-dent, said he thinks his photography will edu-
cate the public about environmental problems 
they may not be aware of.
“The environment is such a critical part of 
people’s livelihood and recreation, especially in the Gainesville community where people are really active outdoors,” he said. 
Houlihan said he was traveling in Madagas-
car this summer when he was given the op-portunity to submit eight photos of endangered 
Florida orchids.
“I’m excited that my research is getting a 
chance to be communicated to a broader audi-
ence,” he said. “I just enjoy relating science to everyone.”Hippodrome features students’ research projects as art4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015
Wendy’s has not joined because it 
buys tomatoes from suppliers.
Wendy’s requires all suppliers 
to comply with state and federal laws, Bertini said. All of its sup-pliers have signed the agreement to comply with worker health and 
safety standards, he said.
Where Wendy’s differs is the 
extra penny per pound of toma-
toes the agreement requires, he said.
“It’s up to (the suppliers) to 
pay their employees,” he said. “We don’t think it’s appropriate for us to pay the employees of our 
suppliers.”
Perez, 22, said the Fair Food 
Agreement looks to protect the 
rights of Florida’s tomato farmers, many of whom are undocument-
ed immigrants.
Richard Call used to eat at 
Wendy’s in the Reitz Union fre-
quently because it was convenient 
during his shifts at the UF Book-
store, he said. The 22-year-old said Wendy’s was the only place on campus that served his favorite 
meal.
“It just happens to be the only 
place on campus with burgers and 
fries,” the UF business manage-
ment alumnus said.
UF’s Reitz Union Wendy’s is 
unusual because all campus din-
ing runs through Aramark, the food company that oversees on-
campus dining, Perez said. Ara-
mark has signed on to the Fair Food Agreement, so the tomatoes used at the campus location are in compliance with the agreement. 
But one Wendy’s complying 
isn’t enough, Perez said. He and his group are trying to speak with Wendy’s representatives to get 
them to join the agreement na-
tionwide. If they are unsuccessful, the group may start boycotts in the Spring.
“It’s a principle,” he said. “It’s 
an ethical issue.”WENDY’S,  from pg1Reitz UnionW endy’s 
is part of agreement
and care for the dogs, but the vet-
erans don’t have to pay an adop-tion fee, said Michelle Dunlap, the director and founder of the rescue society.
She said she hoped being at the 
Veterans Day event with Hubert and Liberty gave people in the com-munity some awareness about the program.
“I hope that people feel some 
hope helping their friends and loved ones coming back from Iraq and other war zones,” Dunlap said. “I 
think this a great way for the com-
munity to come together to empow-er our veterans.”
For Stoner, Hubert and Liberty 
are the first of what she hopes are several success stories to come.
“She is one of those pots of gold 
at the end of the rainbow,” Stoner said. “She is so in tune to his needs.”
Program coordinators have al-
ready begun looking to their next potential service dog, Bubbles, a 2-year-old pitbull at a Gainesville foster home. With a sweet tempera-ment, Stoner said, Bubbles might be able to help another veteran like Hubert.  
“Watching our veterans get a 
second chance at life is great,” she said.Bubbles is next potential service dog
Emily Cochrane
Alligator Staff
email@alligator.org
Martin Foley remembers the 
moment he realized he didn’t 
belong in Vietnam.
The second class Navy pet-
ty officer was stationed in a Vietnamese village during the war when American planes be-
gan dropping bombs. And he 
knew.
“It didn’t solve anything,” 
Foley, now 66, said. “You could never drop enough 
bombs to solve the problem.”
But he was still there 
Wednesday morning at the 
Alachua County Veterans Me-
morial Park, as he and other 
veterans were recognized for their service.
This year’s ceremony, 
which has been held in the 
park for more than 20 years, 
specifically recognized Viet-nam veterans on the 50th an-niversary of the war.“Our veterans are our he-
roes,” said Kim Smith, the di-rector of the Alachua County Veterans Services and the 
event’s organizer. “They’re the 
most important group in our country, in my mind.”
Given the hatred and dis-
dain Vietnam veterans faced 
when they initially returned 
home from war, the ceremony focused on recognizing the services of the veterans during 
the war, no matter how long 
ago.
“It may be a bit belated, but 
let me say this,” said Stephen Dodd, the Chapter Finance Of-
ficer with the Military Order of 
the Purple Heart, to the crowd. “Welcome home.”
For Foley, the delayed rec-
ognition on Wednesday was meaningful because, he said, he will always love his fellow veterans.
“A thousand people can ig-
nore,” he said. “It just takes one person to love you.”  DOG,  from pg1
“It’s a principle. It’s an 
ethical issue.”
Uriel Perez
Chispas UF member50 YEARS AFTER VIETNAMTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
FAST-FOOD WORKERS 
AND PROFESSORS 
ATTENDED. 
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
About 50 local workers gathered 
at the corner of West University Av-
enue and 13th Street on Tuesday to rally for higher wages.
At the Fight for $15 Day of Action 
in Gainesville, which also took place in cities across the country, protest-ers held signs that demanded “Low 
Pay is Not Okay” and “Low Pay 
+ Low Wages = Poverty.” Local 
leaders also joined the rally, giving speeches and leading chants with a megaphone.
Speakers included County Com-
missioner Ken Cornell, Gainesville mayoral candidate Lauren Poe and worker’s rights activist Jeremiah Tattersall, among others.
Low-wage workers such as fast-
food workers, graduate assistants and Santa Fe College and UF profes-sors gathered together to fight for their right to $15 an hour — which 
they said is a living wage. Mem-
bers of the Alachua County Labor 
Coalition, UF’s Graduate Assistants United and the UF Radical Student Alliance also attended.
In his speech, Poe said the fight 
is about more than what people 
make in their paychecks. It’s much bigger than that, he said.
“It’s about social and economic 
equity,” he said in an interview after his speech. “Gainesville is an eco-nomically divided city, and it’s not 
something we can just wish our way 
out of. We have to take action.”
The Fight for $15 is a good first step in the right direction, he said. 
He said a $15 minimum wage won’t 
get workers even halfway to where 
they need to be, but it is a realistic 
goal for now.
Shortly after the speeches, the 
protesters walked to the McDonald’s 
on Northeast 13th Street to contin-
ue the rally there. They continued 
chanting outside the restaurant and then tried to enter, but they were met with four police officers and 
employees telling them to leave un-
less they were customers.
Outside the store, 23-year-old 
Michael Jorell Reyes continued to stand on the sidewalk in protest.
Reyes, a UF engineering junior 
who is also in the UF Radical Stu-dent Alliance, said he is the first per-son in his family to attend a univer-sity. To support him and his sister, his mother works paycheck to pay-check at two different jobs.
Reyes said he tried to work a fast-
food job to help with the bills, but with school it was just too much. It’s a struggle to afford food, rent, school supplies and other expenses, he said.
“I would sacrifice studying time 
to work if it was worth it,” he said. “But at such low wages, it still wasn’t enough and now I’m still try-ing to catch up on lectures.”Local workers rally to fight for $15 minimum wage
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Frank Blankenship, the 63-year-old founder of MindFreedom Florida, protests for a $15 minimum wage at the corner of West University Avenue and 13th Street on Tuesday. There were about 50 people protesting.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Listening, learning and combating racism 
In 1902, two years before he became UF’s 
ﬁ  rst president, Andrew Sledd lost his faculty position at Emory University in Georgia be-
cause he spoke out against racism.
Although Sledd served at UF’s helm for 
only four years, proved controversial and was 
subsequently rarely celebrated, I admire his as-
pirations that UF and its students be known for 
high academic standards and high moral char-acter.
I especially respect the fact that he willingly paid a per-
sonal price early in his career for his opposition to racism.
My age and experience as a white man have given me 
privileges and powers many others have not shared, and I know this has shaped my perspectives of people and cir-cumstances. Because of this, I feel a special responsibility 
to reach out to people from other races and backgrounds, 
to listen and learn from their lives and experiences and to try to see the world through their eyes. As UF’s president, I also have a special responsibility and opportunity to make a difference in eliminating racism in our community.
Like Dr. Sledd in 1902, we have seen students at Miz-
zou and Yale in recent weeks speak out to oppose racism while seeking to help others understand the heavy burden of its effects. We have also seen acts of courage, such as 
the decision by the University of Mississippi Interim Chan-
cellor Morris Stocks to lower the state ﬂ  ag last month be-cause it bears the Confederate ﬂ  ag, or South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley’s signing of a bill to remove the Confederate ﬂ  ag from the state capitol. I pray all of us in the UF family 
will be similarly courageous when we have the opportu-
nity to oppose and combat racism, no matter how slight or subtle, including when it means a change in our own perspective, words and actions.
UF has an opportunity to be a national leader in cre-
ating a community that celebrates and beneﬁ  ts from the diversity and contributions of all its members. To achieve this, we need leadership, goals, plans, continuous assessment of our progress 
and resources and full participation by every 
member of The Gator Nation. I intend to learn from and support our many excellent campus leaders such as Lloren Foster, executive director 
of Multicultural and Diversity Affairs, and Vee 
Smith, director of Black Affairs, among others.
The Black Student Affairs Task Force is as-
sessing and providing recommendations that will lead to sustainable positive change, and the town hall meetings 
and surveys underway this year are helping us understand 
our community and plan for the future. For example, we know we need to increase our numbers of both African-American students and faculty, and we are actively work-
ing to do so. In addition, the Bias Education & Response 
Team stands ready to provide those who experience or are affected by bias incidents an opportunity to be heard and supported, as well as help guide UF in responding decisively.
Hollywood portrays leadership as being bold and res-
olute. I agree those qualities are important. But I have found in my own career it’s equally important to listen to others, to try to think and feel outside my own personal 
experience and, indeed, be willing to change when it is the 
right thing to do.  
I hope as president, I will apply that experience to my 
interactions with all those who challenge me or the uni-versity and wish to work with me to help our university 
do better and achieve more. 
We all have a responsibility to listen and learn. Please 
reach out to me at any time. My personal email is kent.
fuchs@uﬂ  .edu. 
Kent Fuchs is the President of the University of Florida. 
His columns appear monthly.
Police need to be 
held to the same 
standards
A wise man who’s either Baba Oje or Gurdijeff once said, 
“When it rains, it pours.” If the rain in this idiom was news regarding police brutality, then this week was a monsoon.
With the increased scrutiny that has been placed on 
policing tactics in recent years, many — such as the federal gov-ernment and journalists — have sought to obtain hard data and numbers that could help shed light on the day-to-day realities of American policing. The problem is, there are next to none.
As several media outlets covered this week, there is no formal-
ized agency or record-keeping service dedicated to tracking police shootings or homicides. As Leon Neyfakh noted in an article for Slate, a national FBI database for these incidents exists, but the data is culled from police departments who submit such informa-
tion on a voluntary basis. Neyfakh correctly asserts this renders 
the database close to useless. It is not as though asking for such information is a nefarious request; data provides insight, insight gives way to strategies and strategies pave the way for reform.
This gross oversight was the subject of several headlines this 
week, as two separate investigations by media outlets published their long-researched ﬁ  ndings. KPCC, an NPR member station in Pasadena, California, created a database of shootings by police ofﬁ  cers in Los Angeles County from 2010 to 2014. Likewise, the 
Daytona Beach News-Journal from — you guessed it — Daytona 
Beach, Florida, tracked and analyzed ofﬁ  cer-related shootings from 2013 to 2014. Unlike the KPCC investigation, the Daytona Beach News-Journal’s research concerned police shootings on a statewide scale.
For anyone who follows the news, the ﬁ  ndings should not 
prove surprising. NPR’s piece on KPCC’s ﬁ  ndings summarizes the investigation succinctly: “During those ﬁ  ve years… police shot 375 people; no ofﬁ  cers were prosecuted.” The piece goes on 
to note, “Of the people shot, about one in four was unarmed… 
24 percent of those shot and killed were black, while African-Americans make up 8 percent of the L.A. County population.”
The News-Journal’s investigation follows a similar narrative, 
but the most upsetting details of their ﬁ  ndings lie not in the data, but in the human narratives between the numbers. The News-Journal found more than one instance of police fatally shooting unarmed, mentally ill individuals. To make matters worse, these ofﬁ  cers had been called to quell the situation, not exacerbate 
them.
“In one case, an unarmed 24-year-old who had been refusing 
to take medication for a mental illness was killed after his mother 
called the police for help,” a Slate article on the report says. 
What’s mind-boggling about both reports is how few ofﬁ  cers 
were brought to trial — or at the least, formally investigated — for ﬁ  ring their weapons, much less killing unarmed individuals.
These investigations have proved unfortunately prescient, 
with the murder (because, yes, it WAS murder) of an autistic six 
year-old boy in Louisiana by two ofﬁ  cers. Although they have 
both been arrested, their circumstances seem to be the exception, rather than the rule. 
Putting aside the ongoing culture war over whether police 
brutality is justiﬁ  ed, is it not reasonable to expect police ofﬁ  cers to be held accountable as any other civilian for using a weapon on another human being? As detested as bureaucracy is in this country, there needs to be some semblance of a process aimed at gauging whether force was needed, as well as an external system 
of record keeping. Hiding behind a badge can no longer sufﬁ  ce.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015
Emma Green / Alligator
Liberty, a 2-year-old rescued Stafford T errier, sits calmly in Kanap-
aha Veterans Memorial Park on Wednesday with her owner, Chuck Hubert. The 42-year-old veteran said he fought in Somalia, Haiti, Bosnia and Iraq and got Liberty to help with his post-traumatic stress disorder.
Emma Green / Alligator
Baby patriots Kaitlyn Myles, left, 2, and 18-month-old Jameson Samples wave their tiny American ﬂ  ags in front of a service dog statue at Kanapaha Veterans Memorial Park on Wednesday.
Emma Green / Alligator
Vietnam War veterans stand up to be recognized at Kanapaha Veterans Memorial Park on Wednes-day. The speaker who asked them to stand said they worked just as hard as veterans in any other war.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Rudy Burney, a truck driver for Bread of the Mighty Food Bank, greets Hazel Wendleburg, a 99-year-old Army veteran who served from 1943 to 1946, in the food bank warehouse on Tuesday. Wendleburg served as a technician and a news photog-rapher in the Army, worked as an elementary school teacher in Vermont and Ohio and now lives in Gainesville.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Kiyana Williams, a 12-year-old High Springs Community School seventh grader, sings “Wind Beneath My Wings” at Bread of the Mighty Food Bank on Tuesday. She also sang the national anthem at the food bank’s “Stand with a Vet-eran Against Hunger” event.For our veteransKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Student-run organization ChomPics ﬁ  lms new material
Details on pg 12.What’s inside: 
Check out this week’s “Mediocre Advice, ” pg 11.The Avenue interviews Hip Hop Duke, pg 10.THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
Based out of Oxford, England, 
alternative-rock band A Silent Film 
is returning to Gainesville after the October release of its self-titled al-bum.
The band will be performing at 
High Dive, located at 210 SW Sec-ond Ave., on Friday. Tickets are $10 in advance on ticketﬂ  y.com or $12 at the door. Doors open at 8 p.m. and the show begins at 8:30 p.m.
The band summons the ghosts 
of early U2 and Coldplay and has 
a huge live sound, Pat Lavery, 
the owner of Glory Days Presents, wrote in an email.
When the band played at High 
Dive a few years ago, Lavery joked they should be playing arenas.
Since the time the band played 
at High Dive, they’ve released a new album that is being played on 
alternative-rock radio, such as lo-
cal station 100.5 The Buzz, Lavery said. They’ve also been playing fes-tivals around the country, like Tam-pa’s Big Guava earlier this year.
Although they are English, they 
are no strangers to the U.S.
“We spend more time in the 
states than really anywhere else,” 
Spencer Walker, the band’s drum-
mer said, “so in some ways we’re kind of more of an American-based band, even though we’re English and we actually live in England.”
In the beginning of A Silent 
Film’s career, one of the band’s songs was being played on Ameri-can radio, and eventually the band 
was able to make it across the pond 
and support its song on the road.
Walker said someone very smart 
told them early on if they wanted to take that little foot in the door and actually use it to crack the door open, then they would really need to commit to spending time in America.
“The way that you gotta do 
America is you gotta get in a van,” Walker said, “and you gotta just keep going ‘round, and so we did that.”
They spent three years actually 
cracking that door open in the U.S., and during that time their second album was released. Their newest 
album is, in a sense, the ﬁ  rst time 
they have gone home “properly,” took a break and sat down.
After spending so much time in 
America, the experience of coming here for the ﬁ  rst time and touring inﬂ  uenced their second record, Walker said, so they wanted to go home and take their time with the new one.
He said sometimes you have to 
“cocoon” yourself for a while.
“You have to distance yourself 
a little bit from everything in order to write something that’s actually 
you,” Walker said.
Robert Stevenson, vocals and 
piano, and Walker have been play-
ing music together since they were about 14 years old.
All of their lives, really, Walker 
added.
They had a couple of changes 
on their last record with a couple of 
band members leaving, and Walk-
er thinks they felt that for the ﬁ  rst time they had the truest expression of where they were at musically and what they actually wanted to deliver.
With that in mind, they knew early on they wanted their latest album to be self-titled.
“I think in some ways this new 
album is more of a homecoming,” Walker said.
In order to do a bit of a reboot, 
they performed the sold-out Secret Rooms tour of intimate perfor-mances across the U.S.
When they returned home they 
recorded and self-produced “A Si-lent Film” and released it on their 
own label Silent Songs.
Walker said everything the band 
has done has always been a little 
do-it-yourself, which may be un-usual for a band that sounds the way that they do. Even if it may be unexpected, it is the ethos they grew up with.
“There’s no reason that you 
should wait for anyone to do stuff for you, just get out there and do it,” Walker, “and if you don’t know how to do it, learn and then do it, 
and everything is so much more re-
warding.”
And the band has never really 
needed anyone to hold its hand. They enjoy going into the wilder-ness and trying to make it out while learning how to do it along the way.
After working on the new album 
for the last 12 months, they now get to come and play it on tour.
Now that they are back in the 
U.S. and touring Walker feels like they have found a “win-win” sce-nario because they’re ready to be touring again and they get to tour with new songs.
“I think this tour has been par-
ticularly good because it’s the ﬁ  rst tour of the new album,” Walker said, “which is always, for every band, that’s going to be sort of one of your favorite times.”
He said it’s quite nice to run 
around the country and play shows with the team.
“Just everything feels slightly 
surreal,” Walker said, “and it 
makes the whole thing just a little 
more special.”
Everything about their live show 
is directed at making a connection with “every single person” who is there and they work as hard as they can to actually make that happen. 
The result is a high-energy live 
show with arena-level sound that 
will include plenty of dancing.
“It’s a really fun show, this 
tour,” Walker said.English band crosses the pond to perform at High Dive
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Alternative-rock band A Silent Film is returning to Gainesville Friday to perform at High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave. Doors open at 
8 p.m., and the show begins at 8:30 p.m.
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
Bunduki Ramadan, also known as Hip Hop 
Duke, has stood out in the Gainesville hip-
hop scene since opening up for the Ying Yang Twins in July 2014. You may now know Duke from his performances as Mr. Orange and Blue 
and the “Mic Man Hype Man.” You may also 
know the 23-year-old UF economics senior as the guy who seems to know everyone on cam-pus. 
I sat down with Duke at the Institute of 
Black Culture on Monday, and the rapper talk-ed growing up, music inﬂ  uences and commu-nity involvement.
J: So how did you become the mic man for 
the cheerleading squad and Mr. Orange and Blue?
D: So what happened was, one of my best 
friends since freshman year joined the cheer-leading squad his senior year and that same year, they opened up tryouts for students to be the cheerleading squad mic man. So he told me 
about the tryouts and he thought I would be 
perfect for it. So I went and checked it out and I was like, “Oh snap, I am perfect for this!” So I went out and auditioned for it and I showed up in this gator onesie, bro! So I went in there with this Gator onesie and decked out in Gator gear and told them I was a rapper and that I could freestyle. So I dropped an Orange and Blue freestyle and had them throw out random 
words to me to use in my rap and I blew them 
away with that. So I got the mic man position and Mr. Orange and Blue was retiring around the same time, and he decided to pass the tra-dition on to me, so I really became two posi-tions in one: the Mic Man Hype Man and Mr. Orange and Blue.
J: When did you start rapping?D: I started writing poetry in elementary 
school and just from listening to a bunch of hip-hop I was like, “You know what? I could 
do this too,” so I started downloading instru-
mentals to rap along to.
J: What rappers or other people have inﬂ  u-
enced you and/or your style?D: Actually, the ﬁ  rst rapper I was listening 
to heavy was Ludacris. The cool thing about Luda is that he was a hood rapper but he had 
class and that fun vibe. He would rap about 
whatever and would use his vocabulary. That’s why I like T.I. as well, because of his vocabu-lary. I always listened to a lot of Jay Z, 2Pac, Nas and Lupe Fiasco. I can’t forget my boy Terry Bennett, who I worked with as a Preview staffer. He was like a catalyst for me because he had been in the music business for a minute and had been working with well-known art-
ists and producers down south in Miami and 
he came here to further his education so he’s got a strong musical background and degrees in both marketing and business. He kind of opened up my eyes to the music industry and the business side of it all. He showed me how to market myself and he continues to teach me a lot. He’s a person that helped me understand that it’s not just a dream, like, it’s a goal and I 
can make this happen.J: If you could work with any established 
producers right now, who would they be?
D: Oh wow, let’s see... Swizz Beatz. I like 
Jahlil Beats as well, and Metro Boomin is dope, 
too. Pharrell, I’d love to work with him. Kanye, too, and even J. Cole. And Just Blaze!
J: What about some rappers? If you could 
jump on their song or vice versa, who would you choose?
D: Deﬁ  nitely Lupe, Cole, Kendrick or Jay 
Z. Even some of the guys that are breaking 
through now like Joey Bada$$.
J: What about your performances? I know 
you do a lot of shows and opening acts, so 
what are some places you perform at?
D: I perform at the High Dive or The Jam 
usually. A few other local spots like the 8-bit Bar and Market Street that’s downtown. And of course on campus, too, like the Reitz Union. 
I did the “Welcome To The Swamp” week when they had GatorNights. It gets super lit; 
it’s a lot of fun.
J: So who are some artists you’ve opened 
up for? I saw that you opened up for Hopsin recently.
D: Yeah I opened up for Hopsin, Ying Yang 
Twins, Nappy Roots a couple times and Afro-man.
J: I want to talk more about your actual mu-
sic. What’s the message you try to get across to 
your listeners?
D: As an artist, I have my own personal, 
overall theme and what I want to do. I’m deﬁ  -
nitely out there to motivate others, you know what I’m saying? I got people I grew up with, people that feel like they have nothing go-ing for them. It doesn’t matter. Anyone can grind and push themselves to that next level. I come from Jacksonville around some rough 
areas and the people I grew up around were 
selling dope and gang banging because that’s what they do; that’s all they know. I can’t be mad at somebody for doing something though, you know what I’m saying? I just want to tell people that there’s better out there; we can get this money out here, man! You can live well out here and take care of the family and ev-erything.
J: How involved are you in the Gainesville 
community? How do you give back?
D: I have a friend who’s actually study-
ing to become a teacher and his sister works at Boulware Springs Charter School here in Gainesville and I rapped for her one time and she asked if I could come rap to her students and I said, “Of course!” It’s a school for low-in-
come students so these kids come up and they 
don’t know what they can achieve and I can deﬁ  nitely relate to them, coming from a low-income family myself. So I went out there and did a whole set and then gave a motivational speech and there ended up being a writer from the Gainesville Sun out there and that’s how the story kind of blew up.
Check out Hip Hop Duke’s album “The 
Bigger Picture” with links to download on his 
website: HipHopDuke.com.10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015
Attention Advertisers
Attention Advertisers
Attention Advertisers
Due to the Thanksgiving holiday, 
The Alligator will not publish on
Wednesday, November 25;
Thursday, November 26;
and Friday, November 27.  
Due to the Thanksgiving holiday, 
The Alligator will 
The Alligator will 
The Alligator will 
 not 
not 
not 
publish on
publish on
publish on
Wednesday, November 25;
Thursday, November 26;
and Friday, November 27.
   
Due to the Thanksgiving holiday, 
The Alligator will not publish on
Wednesday, November 25;
Thursday, November 26;
and Friday, November 27.  
Please be aware of the following early deadlines
RUN DATE
Monday, Nov. 30
Tuesday, Dec. 1DEADLINE
Monday, Nov. 23 4p.m.
Tuesday, Nov. 24 4p.m.Please be aware of the following early deadlines
RUN DATE
Monday, Nov. 30
Tuesday, Dec. 1DEADLINE
Monday, Nov. 23 4p.m.
Tuesday, Nov. 24 4p.m.
These deadlines apply to both
Display and Classified advertising.
Display Advertising
376-4482Classified Advertising
373-3463
These deadlines apply to both
Display and Classified advertising.
Display Advertising
376-4482
Classified Advertising
373-3463
These deadlines apply to both
Display and Classified advertising.
Display Advertising
376-4482Classified Advertising
373-3463
Student Living GuideAdvertise in the
and spotlight
your property!
Quarter page ads and 
larger will be map 
spotted for free!Publishes on the day
of the UF off-campus
housing fair!
 Deadline
11.13.15Run Date
11.20.15
advertising 352-376-4482
Courtesy to the Alligator
Bunduki Ramadan, also known as Hip Hop Duke, is making waves in the Gainesville hip-hop scene. His new album is available on HipHopDuke.com.Mr. Orange and Blue talks music, helping the community 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
 
  HARN.UFL.EDU
3259 Hull Road 
Across from UF SW Rec CenterCOMMUNITY 
CONVERSATIONS
Tonight!, Nov. 12, 6-9 p.m.
FREE FOOD & ADMISSION
Celebrate Our 25th Anniversary Exhibition 
Musical & Dance Performances  
Art Activities & Art Blast Tours 
ADA Today: Changing Perceptions
Art Installation & Talkimage: Indian, Mask of Ravana 
c. 1900-1950, gift of Mr. and 
Mrs. Thomas Needham
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!James Franco. Seth Rogen. Jason Se-
gel. Linda Cardellini. Busy Philips. No, 
this isn’t the cast to a Pineapple Express sequel. It’s the cast of the cult classic TV series “Freaks and Geeks,” and it’s this 
week’s drinking game.
“Freaks and Geeks” was produced by 
rom-com ﬁ  lm god Judd Apatow, who’s 
also known for ﬁ  lms like “Knocked Up” and “The 40-Year-Old Virgin.” It aired on NBC in September 1999 and only lasted one season with 18 episodes.
Linda Cardellini stars as Lindsay Weir, 
a high school student who was once an 
honors student but decides to change her 
ways and befriend “freaks” to be cool and rebellious. The series also follows her conventional family, particularly her younger brother Sam, played by John Francis Daley. Sam and his friends are younger and encounter their own adven-tures; they’re the “geeks” of the show.
The show has a perfect balance of 
teen angst and comedy, along with a killer soundtrack. The opening sequence features “Bad Reputation” by Joan Jett.
Its cancellation was premature com-
pared to its critical acclaim, especially after being cancelled after 12 episodes. Fans were able to persuade NBC to re-lease three more episodes, and FOX later aired the remaining three.
The majority of the actors gained pop-
ularity and went on to become successful stars — probably why the show has be-come such a hit in recent years.By Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer 
MEDIOCRE ADVICE
Results Guaranteed or Your Money Back
Dear Mr. Mediocre Alligator Advice,So there’s this girl. Smart, sezzy, 
down to Earth… the whole shebang. We’ve been talking and things are going well except one thing. Once we 
start getting freaky, I ﬁ  nish so early! 
I’ve never had this problem, but she’s so hot! As much as I love having the quickest trigger in the Southeast region, how can I prevent this?
- Gunslinger
Great inquiry. You know how 
teachers always tell students there is 
no such thing as a stupid question be-
cause another person might have the same inquiry? This applies precisely for this situation because 90% of guys reading this have the same question but are too afraid to ask. This sounds weird, but you need to think about sex in terms of Lay’s potato chips. 
Once things are starting to get spicy 
— not as spicy as Sriracha, but deﬁ  -nitely spicier than honey BBQ — divert your focus to something else. My ad-vice: Start thinking of the reasons why they discontinued their Chicken and Wafﬂ  e chips. Soon, things will get hot-ter than the Flamin’ Hots. However, if Gunslinger comes back, then it’s over; you can just pack your bags right 
there, because you’re sour cream and 
done-ions.
What is the best place on campus to 
pick up hot girls?
- Anonymous
Obviously during football games. 
It gets so hot out there, man. I mean 
you’ll ﬁ  nd girls in tank tops and booty 
shorts that still need to bring a hand-held fan to the game because they’re getting so hot. These girls are so hot they’re sweating bullets. Picking them up is going to be difﬁ  cult because they’re extremely slippery from sweat, 
but a simple ﬁ  reman’s carry should do.
What are some tips for looking good 
in the gym?
- Anonymous
It’s funny because the only rea-
son to go to the gym is to look good. 
I hear dudes talking about “functional 
strength,” and it’s garbage. Totally bro, 
as if a tree is going to fall on you and you’re going to have to bench press it off. As if your mom’s clutch is going to be so heavy you have to bicep curl it 812 times for three sets.
We go to the gym to look good, but 
have to make sure we already look good before going. Southwest Rec is 
undoubtedly the most crowded, so 
start at Student Rec, take 10 times the recommended dose of creatine and do a quick bicep/tricep/chest/back work-out. Style your hair downstairs in the locker room, drive to Southwest, stroll into the weightroom, look in the mirror and tell yourself, “Damn I look good,” and continue your workout. But what-
ever you do, never, ever, EVER work-
out your legs; they are by far the least functional muscle group anyway.
Simon Moskovitz is a UF English 
senior. If you have any questions 
you would like to see answered 
in the weeks ahead, please email them to mediocre.alligator.advice@gmail.com.Take a sip when...
 The show starts
 Neal acts like a 40-year-old
 A currently popular actor/
actress in the main cast pops 
up on the screen
 A really good song comes on
Take a shot when...
 An awkward encounter between 
Lindsay and Neal happens
 “Bad Reputation” comes on
 A well-known actor not in 
the main cast makes an 
appearance
Finish your drink...
 During a dancing sequence
 When Lindsay and Nick have a 
cute moment
 During the school assembly 
on preventing alcohol-related 
deaths for ironic purposes
 When itʼs over and you ponder 
on what couldʼve been if it hadnʼt 
gotten cancelledBy Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer
Award-winning students at UF 
have taken initiative and started 
their own online web series, ﬁ  lmed and produced straight from Weimer Hall.
ChomPics Productions is a stu-
dent-run organization that branches out from UF’s chapter of the Na-tional Broadcasting Society. Cur-rently ﬁ  lming brand new material from Weimer, the web series ranges from commercial parodies to an en-tertainment news show and other projects, which are all posted online 
for the public’s viewing.
And at the National Broadcasting 
Society’s 2015 Student Electronic 
Media Competition, ChomPics won grand prize awards for Comedy Pro-gram Script, Video Program Opener and Animation.
This year’s web series, “Ace Wa-
tergate and the Secrets Society,” is 
set to be completed by Nov. 20 and 
published in early December.
ChomPics originated in 2013 
when UF telecommunication alum-nus Connor Hachey, 22, found no outlet at UF that catered to his in-terests.
“There’s really nothing for stu-
dents that are studying television 
and want to work in non-news pro-
gramming like scripted shows, real-ity television and entertainment,” Hachey said. “Me and a bunch of my friends all wanted to be the next Ryan Murphy or Shonda Rhimes, not the next Matt Lauer or Erin An-drews.”
Hachey, along with friend Beth 
Benge, sent out an email to see if there were any students interested in working on a small, low-budget web series or video project. They expected to get a handful of re-sponses — and they got more than 70 replies.
The ﬁ  rst meeting took place in 
Sept. 2013 with more than 70 at-
tendees, and eventually up to 100 people signed up to be a part of 
ChomPics.
“From there, we listened to what 
people wanted to work on and ev-erything just got bigger and bigger,” Hachey said. “Now, two years later, ChomPics Productions produces a scripted web-series, an entertain-ment news show called ‘The Bite,’ podcasts, commercial videos and a parody-style news program called “Sunshine State of Affairs” every 
year.”
“Sunshine State of Affairs” is 
a “whimsical” biweekly parody news show with rotating hosts and 
characters from a uniquely Florida perspective, according to current 
executive producer and UF tele-
communication junior Samantha Speedy. 
Speedy said “Sunshine State” 
releases episodes biweekly on the Gator NBS YouTube channel, the ﬁ  rst podcasts are posted to the ChomPics SoundCloud and the ﬁ  rst episode of “The Bite” is on You-
Tube.
Almost every project has its own 
Facebook page, Twitter and Ins-tagram to obtain an audience and 
gain a social media presence.
Twenty-year-old Speedy got in-
volved as a freshman because she wanted to work in television to some degree and felt ChomPics was a good place to test out different ar-eas of production to ﬁ  gure out what she wanted to do.
“ChomPics is a grassroots ini-
tiative fueled solely by the drive of students to create,” she said. 
“It’s just a group of students trying 
their best to get better at what they love to do… I think in that way it’s something that all UF students pur-suing their passion can relate to and enjoy watching.”
Video production professor 
Houston Wells is the current advi-sor of GatorNBS and ChomPics Pro-ductions.
 He was asked to ﬁ  ll the position 
in 2014 after associate professor Amy Coffey left it. 
“I am thrilled that the students 
have sort of collectively created this 
outlet to practice their craft and to 
do so in a creative way,” Wells said. 
Each production is entirely made 
up on their own, according to the organization’s website. Just like a “real” production company, Chom-Pics’ production team is composed of producers, a directing team, writ-ing team, editing team, art direction 
team, technical service team and a 
marketing/fundraising team.
Philosophically, it’s really good 
for them to ﬁ  nd their own way cre-atively and production-wise, Wells said.
“Nobody said to these students, 
‘This is what you should be doing,’ they said, ‘This is what we’re gonna 
be doing,’ and that’s what’s exciting 
to me, and I’m perfectly happy to be on the outside edge, answering questions,” Wells said.
The organization can use equip-
ment for recording through the Col-lege of Journalism and Communica-tions. However, Speedy said that one of their biggest setbacks will be 
budget and almost everything they 
do is “by the generosity of (their) members’ time and good will.”
“We’re trying really hard and 
putting out a good product,” she said.
ChomPics continues to release 
material through its YouTube pag-es, and its members are working on 
reaching a wider audience.
“The inspiration for all our 
shows come from everyday campus 
life and we try to start conversations about topics that affect every type of college student,” Hachey said.By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
@martindvassolo
Well, here we are.Another week, another new set of songs 
to read about, listen to once and proceed to violently ignore before retreating to that one playlist you’ve been shufﬂ  ing through since 
the summer of your freshman year.
This week, we bring you a set of songs so 
wonderful, so diverse, you can easily listen 
to them as you study, cook and hump — si-multaneously if you want. Making an appear-ance in today’s segment are two Canadians, an enigma and a washing machine.
Alright.First we have a song from the enigma: The 
Japanese House’s “Clean” (Nov. 6).
This track sounds like it would play at a 
Heaven house party in heaven. Twinkling xylophones and synthetic syrup ﬂ  icker about as a voice seduces your senses, tip-toeing the line of consent. As a crisp snare cuts through the goo like a machete does trees, the gates of heaven open. I think David’s drunk. 
Next up to bat, it’s Grimes. The oddball 
synth-pop singer has made a name for herself this year by being weird and cute. She isn’t the girl to bring home to your little sister’s 
slumber party. She’s the industry’s best-kept 
secret, so I’ll make this quick.
Off her new album, “Art Angels,” a few 
songs spoke to me. The ﬁ  rst being “Laughing and Not Being Normal,” the album’s intro. This almost-2-minute track reminds me of a stroll through 19th-century England. A chron-ic thump and some haunting strings scurry through the opening half of the song before 
Grimes steps in, who sings in a falsetto that’s 
equal parts Geisha and Arabian Nights.
Up next, it’s Justin Bieber. Hold the jeers.In 2015, the former “baby-baby-baby-
ooooooo” singer transitioned from a prepubes-cent, stuck-up piece of bubble gum to a post-pubescent, slightly less annoying 21-year-old. You can ﬁ  nally listen to the kid without look-ing over your shoulder. This year, he ditched his shrieking love songs and Disney endorse-ments in lieu of some substance with releases like, “What Do You Mean?” and “I’ll Show You.”
On his latest single, “Love Yourself,” 
Bieber rips a page out of Ed Sheeran’s book with a simple guitar-driven tune that your mom will adore. Although it takes a few lis-tens to make sure you don’t hate the song, trust me — it’s pretty good. Bieber never steps over the line. He doesn’t say “baby” 30 times, and he doesn’t sound like he’s crying. He has grown up, just in time for his new album to come out tomorrow.
So, earlier I promised you a washing ma-
chine. At ﬁ  rst, I was hesitant to mention it. But you’ve earned it, and oddly enough, I trust you. 
Anyway, the machine’s name is the Whirl-
pool Ultimate Care II, and it has three simple settings: wash, rinse and drugs.This ﬁ  nal setting, drugs, was used by two 
Baltimore men to create an album of nonstop washing machine noises. The whole thing goes on for about 38 minutes. That’s a lot of laundry.
….And that’s a lot of drugs.Matmos, a conceptual electronic duo, used 
the washing machine in their basement to cre-ate the album, “Ultimate Care II,” which is actually just one long composition.
At times, the men bang on their machine 
like a drum. Then they play synthetic sounds through its hollow metal. At other points, they just turn it on and let it wash.
The result: a piece of music that varies be-
tween charming and confusing.
These are just my suggestions — mere 
opinions. Aside from my picks, there’s also new music from Coldplay, CeeLo Green, Ellie Goulding and more out there. But that’s up to you to ﬁ  nd.
Go out, reader. Follow the beat of your 
own drum and/or appliance.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Student-run organization ChomPics Productions is currently ﬁ  lming this year’s web series, “Ace 
Watergate and the Secrets Society. ” It is set to release in December.
Student-run organization ChomPics ﬁ  lms new material
MUSICMUSIC HEADS REJOICE. HERE’S THE LATEST: ff the RecordTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
HE WAS AWARDED THE
LUCIE AWARD IN NEW YORK.
By Elena Castello
Avenue Writer
“Click.” 
The split-second sound of the shutter 
captures a moment in a still-frame photo. 
For one retired UF professor, it was a fa-
miliar sound for more than 65 years. This lifetime of work earned him the Lucie Award for Achievement in Fine Arts.
Professor emeritus Jerry N. Uelsmann, 
an 81-year-old Gainesville resident, said he had no basis for who selected him or how he’d been selected. He just knew he’d been nominated. 
On Oct. 27, he was presented with the 
award in Carnegie Hall in New York City. The Lucie Award has been presented to the world’s best in photography nominated in 
several different categories. Previous win-
ners include a White House photographer, Pulitzer Prize winners and an Olympic Games staff photographer. He said he’s taken pictures for more than six decades 
and began his career at UF. 
He became a professor of photography 
at UF in 1960, the first and only place he’s 
ever taught as a professor, he said.
“It was a big honor,” he said of receiv-
ing the award. “People were kind. They wanted to have their picture taken with me.” During the event, he said, a slide-show showcased his work.Uelsmann is now retired in Gainesville. 
He said he lectures occasionally but also 
travels and sits on panels to talk about 
photography and his work.
“I love the University of Florida,” he 
said. “It’s been very supportive of photog-
raphy and very positive over the years.”
Robert Fichter, 75, is a retired photog-
rapher and former student of Uelsmann’s. 
He began his undergraduate studies in 
1965 but couldn’t pass Beginning Spanish. His only option was to take photography.
He said he took one class with Profes-
sor Uelsmann and switched his major to 
painting and printmaking — photography 
wasn’t offered at the time.
After that, he said he went to Indiana 
University under Uelsmann’s mentorship 
and graduated with a master’s in photog-raphy and printmaking. He returned to 
Gainesville to teach at UF for one semes-
ter. Fichter said Uelsmann has been a great friend and mentor.
“He’s a golly genius,” he said of Uels-
mann. “He reinvented the idea of putting two or three images together to make one coherent picture.” He said people had done it before, but no one had thought to do it the way his mentor had. He said he’s 
proud of Uelsmann for the work he’s done 
over the years and for the recognition he’s receiving now.
Uelsmann said he doesn’t know where 
his inspiration comes from; he can’t pin-point it. But of his favorite picture, he said, “It’s the one I’ll take next.”Retired UF professor wins prestigious photography awardBy Ashlyn Pinter
Avenue Writer
Four years ago, professor of 
music Dr. Paul Richards started the 
Florida Contemporary Music Fes-
tival. After the festival debut, he planned on holding the festival ev-ery other year until students urged 
him to do it annually.
“‘Fine,’” Richards said, recall-
ing the moment he agreed. “‘But 
you’ve gotta help.’”
Beginning Thursday, UF will 
host the Society of Composers, Inc. 
(SCI) 50th Anniversary National 
Conference, which has significant-ly grown in size since last year.
Last year, there were two com-
posers visiting, and this year there 
are 86.
The conference will last three 
days, with four concerts per day. 
The concerts will be held at the 
University Auditorium, the Music 
Building and the Phillips Center 
for the Performing Arts. The con-ference will conclude Nov. 14 with a closing gala concert titled “Music 
of Our Time” at 7:30 p.m. at the 
Phillips Center.
The free event will include in-
ternationally recognized award-
winning composer, pianist and 
Indiana University Jacobs School 
of Music professor Don Freund. 
Other performers will include the Red Clay Saxophone Quartet, pia-
nist Dan Koppelman, pianist Mary 
Hellmann and musicians from soundSCAPE, a new music festival in Italy.“It’s a composers conference, 
which in some ways is like other academic conferences. There are specialists from around the coun-try that are coming to share their work with each other,” Richards said. “Unlike academic confer-ences this might be interesting to 
non-academics.”
In every concert there will be 
various kinds of music and differ-
ent instrument groups, with some involving electronics. The conference attracts compos-
ers and musicians from all over the country to perform along with local 
UF students and faculty.
“This is largely the cutting edge 
of music, these are people who are 
experimenting with the possibili-ties of sound,” Richards said. “The 
performers are world class.”
Ismael Sandoval, a 22-year-old 
UF music education and music 
composition fifth-year student, vol-
unteered to be a part of the confer-
ence this year.
As a guest relations volunteer, 
he will be getting his hands on 
anything he can, from sound to 
parking.
Sandoval is excited to be a part 
of the event for the first time. For 
him, the conference is something he can personally learn from.
“I’m looking forward to not only 
listening to what music is being composed all around the country but it being right here in my own backyard,” Sandoval said.
He estimates that most of UF’s 
music school will be in attendance because of the fact that they specif-ically shut it down for the event’s concerts.
“There are a lot of different 
composers around the country even the world that are doing pretty cool things and given the chance, I think that people would 
really find them exciting or enjoy-
able,” he said.UF to host SCI National Conference beginning Thursday
Courtesy to the Alligator
Professor emeritus Jerry N. Uelsmann accepts the Lucie Award at Carn-
egie Hall in New York City.
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF will host the Society of Composers, Inc. (SCI) 50th Anniversary National Conference begin-ning Thursday and ending Saturday. Eighty-six composers will perform this year.
86 composers will perform this yearBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
$325 one large room with patio in two-one with mature female student. Split electric, high speed internet free, washer/dryer/dish -
washer in unit. Bus route 34, 35, 36, 38 (352) 631-0737     11-30-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For 
August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-
2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
11-18-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESWE BUY CARS!1DOES NOT HAVE TO RUNANY CONDITION!!352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified8 Electronics 1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real Estate 7 ComputersTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $1900
95 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-13-15-20-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
ACROSS
1 Thin locks, as of
hair
6 League fraction
10 Long-armed
beasts
14 Tin Pan Alley org.
15 “... but I play 
one __”
16 Lead-in for sci
17 Diamond heist?19 Tiger Woods’ ex
20 Fresh from the
oven
21 One may be
tossed after a
wish
22 Rub the wrong
away
23 Bare-bones staff26 Painter who was
a leader of theFauvistmovement
29 “__ Ben Adhem”30 Shooting star, to
some
31 1928 Oscar
winner Jannings
32 Early Beatle
Sutcliffe
35 Dinner side, and
what can literallybe found in thispuzzle’s circles
40 Firm41 Reason for a tow
job
42 Literary
governess
43 Controversial
video gamefeature
44 Does a security
job
47 Divides, as lovers51 Squirrel away52 Fruit discard53 __ bath56 Cost of living?57 Stereotypical
bachelors’ toys
60 Eye rakishly61 Place to see
crawls
62 Rock’s __ Boingo63 He’s fifth on the
career home runlist
64 Kennel sounds65 Graph lines
DOWN
1 Break-even
transaction2 Comparative
words
3 Nae sayer
4 Frequent
companion
5 Dust motes6 Calder piece7 Featherbrained
8 SFPD ranks
9 Memorable
temptation victim
10 Brief outline11 __ cap12 Beethoven’s
“Für __”
13 Resilient strength18 Anti votes22 Name on a
historic B-29
23 Cosecant’s
reciprocal
24 Teach, in a way25 Final notice?26 Kids’ drivers,
often
27 Valéry’s valentine28 Printed words31 It may need a
boost
32 Roy Rogers’ birth
name
33 Fork-tailed flier34 Exploits
36 Smeltery waste
37 Hit or miss38 Three-sided
blade
39 “ ... I’ve __ to the
mountaintop”:
King
43 Beaux __: noble
deeds
44 Ice cream
designs
45 Copper46 Three-time 21st-
century WorldSeries champs47 Billiards shot48 Greek finale49 Virile50 Military unit53 Tailless cat54 Goad55 British mil.
decorations
57 Tom Clancy
figure
58 Hawaiian dish59 Org. in Tom
Clancy novels
By Kurt Krauss©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/12/1511/12/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, November 12, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted
16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab and follow the directions.    11-13-15-12-14
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with reliable transportation. If interested call (352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Part-Time Assistant Teacher at Millhopper 
Montessori School (M-F 8:30 AM - 1:00 PM). Ages 2-4 program. Starting November 30, 2015. Email mmschool@millhopper.com   11-17-15-9-14
Hiring Dine-In Supervisors @ New Dominos on Archer Rd. Host & serve dine-in customers @ 3581 SW Archer Rd Location. PT & FT Flexible hrs. All you need is a smile. Apply @ gatordominos.com    11-19-15-10-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
Gator Moving & Storage Co – HIRINGPart-time – flexibility around class schedulesMust be age 21 or over with valid Florida Drive License and clean recordApply at 1950 NE 27th Ave / 352-374-4791    11-13-15-5-14
Eighth grader in need of tutoring in all sub-jects.Mon-Fri 3-6pm.Email with references and rates paula@trematerracustomhomes.com or call Mon-Fri 352 333-1945    11-16-15-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Immediate. $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surfing, computer savvy. Excel a plus. Resume and daily avail -
able hrs to oma.office@yahoo.com    11-20-15-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
MOBILE NOTARY SERVICESWhere you need it when you need it.Legal Documents, Marriages etc.Call (352) 448-1133 Serving Alachua County      11-12-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
CPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 11/16-11/19 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then workshops” to register.    11-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
20 Event Notices 24 Pets 15 Services 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
Headline
Story description Pg#
Coach Gregg Troy and the 
Florida men's and women's swimming and diving teams showed improved in their meet against South Carolina. Read the story on pg. 18. The No. 11 Florida Gators 
(8-1, 6-1 Southeastern Confer-
ence) travel to Columbia, South Carolina, to face the South Car-olina Gamecocks (3-6, 1-6 SEC) in both teams’ ﬁ  nal conference 
game of the year. The Gators 
already clinched the SEC East and are now focused on run-ning the table for a potential 
College Football Playoff berth. 
The Gamecocks are on the outside looking in for the postseason, needing to win their ﬁ  nal three games to become bowl eligible. Here’s a look at South Carolina’s season to 
this point and what the Gamecocks bring 
to the game:
So long, Head Ball Coach:  After 
starting the year 2-4, South Carolina head coach Steve Spurrier announced his res-
ignation on Oct. 13. Co-offensive coordi-nator Shawn Elliott took over 
as interim head coach and has been 1-2 since replacing Spur-
rier. 
A 19-10 win over Vander-
bilt and a pair of road losses 
to Texas A&M and Tennessee 
both decided by seven points 
or fewer.
The Skai’s the limit:
After a successful sophomore season, South Carolina’s Skai Moore is stepping his game up another notch. Through nine 
games this year, the 6-foot-2, 218-pound 
middle linebacker has a team-leading 89 tackles — including 6.5 for loss and two sacks. 
Moore has also been a valuable force in 
the Gamecocks’ pass defense. 
He has a team-best four interceptions By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
Marcus Maye’s season began 
watching Florida beat New Mex-ico State 61-13 on Sept. 5 from 
the sidelines, forced to sit out the 
season-opener because of a viola-tion of team rules.
But now, the redshirt junior 
can’t be kept off the ﬁ  eld. 
Since he’s come back from 
the suspension, Maye has been one of the critical elements of the Gators’ defense.
Being sidelined in the opener 
could’ve had dire consequences for Maye’s playing time since it was his ﬁ  rst chance to show his 
value to the team for coach Jim 
McElwain. 
It was a chance for Duke Daw-
son and Nick Washington to take away valuable playing time from 
Maye.
Instead, Maye has improved to 
the point that McElwain and the defensive coaching staff need him 
on the ﬁ  eld.
The Melbourne, Florida, native 
credits the in-game experience as 
the reason why he’s taken his 
game to another level.“Just you know being out there 
more,” Maye said on Oct. 5.  “I’ve 
been here a couple years and … 
getting used to the game, getting used to the tempo and stuff like that.”
Maye has made his presence 
known this season.In the eight games he’s played 
in this year for the No. 11 Gators, the safety is fourth on the team with 52 tackles and tied for sec-
ond with two interceptions while 
leading the Gators with three forced fumbles.McElwain said Maye was a big 
reason for Florida getting started in its 27-3 win against Georgia. 
Maye got the ﬁ  rst of the four 
interceptions that Georgia quar-terback Faton Bauta threw during the game, and McElwain said that Maye was playing with a heavy 
heart.
“I think Marcus has done an 
outstanding job and actually got 
us kick-started in that Georgia game, which is great to see be-
cause he was mourning the loss 
of a very close family member that week,” McElwain said. 
“It was great to see him kind of 
playing for his why and that was pretty awesome.” 
Maye’s play hasn’t gone un-
noticed nationally, either. Pro Football Focus, a site that grades 
every single player and every sin-
gle play on a scale of minus-two and plus-two, has Maye as one of the highest ranked safeties in the 
country.
Prior to Florida’s 9-7 win 
against Vanderbilt, Maye had a 
rating of plus-15.7, which made him one of the most valuable 
safeties in the country.  
His coverage grade of plus-
10.7 led all safeties, and he also 
had a grade of plus-4.4 against 
the run among the highest in the 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Signing Day
The Florida volleyball team signed six players to National Letters of Intent 
on Wednesday on the ﬁ  rst day of the 2015 Fall signing period. The three-time defending national champion gymnastics team signed four gymnasts to letters of intent. Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF safety Marcus Maye attempts to tackle Georgia quarterback Faton Bauta during Florida's 27-3 win 
against the Bulldogs on Oct. 31 at EverBank Field in Jacksonville. 
Gators safety showing unselﬁ  sh mentality this season
SEE SCOUTING,  PAGE 19AIR JORDAN
Scouting the South Carolina Gamecocks
UF BEGINS REGULAR SEASON ON 
THE ROAD AGAINST NAVY ON 
FRIDAY.
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
Last Thursday, Mike White took the 
court of the O’Connell Center for the ﬁ  rst 
time as Florida’s head coach. In an 89-42 exhibition game victory over Division II Palm Beach Atlantic, White observed 
his team’s strengths and weaknesses in a 
game situation just eight days before the regular season began.
As the Gators prepare to take on Navy 
in the season-opener on Friday night at 9:30 in Annapolis, Maryland, White knows the adjustments his team needs to make from the exhibition game to start the season off on the right foot.
“I think everyone in the O’Dome knew 
we weren’t handling the basketball and making great decisions the way we need to to be a successful team,” White said of the Gators’ performance against Palm Beach Atlantic. “Every team in the coun-try has deﬁ  ciencies right now.”
Turnovers and free-throw shooting 
were Florida’s glaring deﬁ  ciencies in the exhibition game victory. 
The Gators turned the ball over 23 
times and shot just 10-of-27 from the char-Florida men's basketball 
team a work in progress
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 19SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 19Marcus Maye showing diverse skillset
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
“I think everyone in the O’Dome knew 
we weren’t handling the basketball and 
making great decisions the way we 
need to to be a successful team.”
Mike White
UF men's basketball coachBy Lauren Staff
Alligator Writer
@LStaff27
The story up to this point in 
the season for Florida’s swim-
ming and diving teams has been their lack of consistency. 
But both the men’s and wom-
en’s teams were able to put ev-erything together against South Carolina on Friday. 
The men’s team beat the Game-
cocks for an eighth straight time with 178-115, while the women beat South Carolina 165-126.5. 
The women have never lost 
against the Gamecocks extending 
their all-time series record to 19-
0. 
Coach Gregg Troy wanted to 
see how both teams would re-spond after their sporadic start to the season. 
“It’s much easier to motivate 
when they haven’t done well,” Troy said.
Entering the South Carolina 
meet, the No. 5 ranked men were on a two-meet losing streak after being defeated by both Texas and Indiana on Oct. 16 and by Georgia on Oct. 30. 
The No. 18 ranked women 
were also coming off two straight losses to Texas and Indiana, and 
Georgia. Both teams were able to 
get going early against South Car-olina and not let up.   The women’s 200 medley relay 
team of senior Ashlee Linn, soph-
omore Paige Scheriger, junior 
Alyssa Yambor-Maul, and senior Natalie Hinds set the tone early for the Gators, placing first with a time of 1:43.74, edging out South Carolina’s team who touched the 
wall in a time of 1:45.96.
Freshman Jan Switowski, a Po-
land native, came in big for the 
Gators, winning first-place in all four of his races.
In the process, Switowski set 
the nation’s top times in both the 200-yard individual medley (1:45.07) and the 200-yard free-style (1:34.81).Another freshman, Gainesville 
native Hannah Burns, has quietly 
been having a great season her-
self. 
On Friday she stood out on 
the women’s side, winning and setting personal-best times in the 100-yard breaststroke and the 500-yard freestyle.
“Since she’s a medley swim-
mer we can use in a lot of differ-
ent places,” Troy said.  “A lot of 
character for a freshman. Being a local girl who’s familiar with the program, it’s special to see that.”
On Tuesday, both Burns and 
Switowski were awarded South-eastern Conference accolades, with Switowski earning SEC’s Male Swimmer of the Week, and 
Burns earning Female Freshman 
of the Week, the first recognition of her career.
Now the Gators will have less 
than two weeks to prepare and polish their swims before head-ing to Columbus, Ohio, on Nov. 20 for the Buckeye Invitational hosted by Ohio State University.
“It will give us a little bit of a 
chance to see the training philoso-phy, a little different preparation, and see how they respond,” Troy said about the preparation these next ten days. “It will give us a lit-tle feedback to see where we are and what changes we will have to 
make for next semester.”18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015
Alligator File Photo
UF swimmer Natalie Hinds competes in the 100-yard butterfly during Florida’s 189.5-110.5 win against Arkansas on Sept. 27, 2014 in the O’Connell Center. 
SWIMMING AND DIVING
Inconsistent UF teams improve against South CarolinaTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19
ity stripe. 
But besides those two weak-
nesses, Florida ran the ﬂ  oor well 
on offense and applied heavy pressure on defense, shooting 
57.6 percent from the ﬁ  eld and 
forcing 30 turnovers.
For help on free throws, White 
is looking to a higher power, al-though he doesn’t believe Thurs-day night’s numbers properly re-ﬂ  ect the team’s ability. 
“Oh my goodness. Pray more, 
I guess,” White said. “You just 
hope that the percentages you 
shoot in practice would carry over to the games, so I’m not ready to just jump to a conclusion too early that it’s a major issue for us yet; I’m hopeful that we can cor-rect it for Friday night.”
As for the turnovers, red-
shirt junior DeVon Walker, who missed all of last season with a torn ACL, may speak for many of his younger teammates when he 
said excitement and nerves might 
have taken over in his ﬁ  rst game back.
“I was too excited. I was too 
excited to be back out. I think I 
was too excited in a bad way, my 
rhythm and everything was just sped up,” Walker said. “Now that that’s out of the way, we got that experience out of the way, we can just use it and now we can just get back to playing basketball as we know.”
The Gators did not head into 
their ﬁ  rst game week unscathed. 
Redshirt senior forward Alex 
Murphy suffered a partially torn plantar fascia in his right foot against Palm Beach Atlantic and will miss four-to-six weeks. 
Transfer forward Justin Leon 
was also banged up in Thursday’s game and White said he was un-sure yet if Leon would be able to play in Friday’s season opener. White said those injuries will 
give freshmen Keith Stone and Kevarrius Hayes more opportuni-
ties to play and that he’ll be using 
multiple lineups during practice this week.
White said losing Murphy — a 
ﬁ  fth-year senior — is also a blow to the team.
"Here comes another hit for 
him, and he’s really been in a good groove shooting the basket-
ball,” White said. “He’s as much 
of a leader as we have on this team. Brings it vocally to practice every day more than anyone."
Injuries aside, the Gators are 
focused on working on their weaknesses and earning White his ﬁ  rst regular-season win as Florida’s head coach on Friday 
against Navy.
“Honestly, I don’t think there’s 
a word in the Webster dictionary 
for that,” Walker said on start-ing the season. “I’m beyond ex-cited, not only for me, but for the coaches, for the guys. I think it’s great to start this journey with one another, at Navy, it’s a great 
place to start it.”Gators looking to reduce turnovers
nation.
Those numbers are also 
helped by the fact that Maye has 
had to play some linebacker be-
cause of the lack of depth for the Gators due to injuries. 
Other than Jarrad Davis 
and Antonio Morrison, Florida doesn’t have a lot of bodies to use.
However, Maye has ﬁ  lled in 
and helped out the linebackers 
in certain defensive packages, 
which started in the third game of the season against Kentucky.
“If you were just (watching) 
ﬁ  lm and not know what his jer-sey number is listed as or his position you would just say, hey that guy is a linebacker based on where he is lined up,” McEl-
wain said. “For him to do that I think 
shows his versatility and his 
value. The guy’s played unself-ish and that’s pretty cool to 
see.”
With the Gators entering 
the ﬁ  nal stretch of their regular 
season schedule, and with the continued lack of depth at line-
backer, Maye will be counted on 
to continue his high level of play the rest of the way.
And he only wants to keep 
doing one thing: Continue to have the unselﬁ  sh mentality he has and contribute any way pos-sible.
“Just going out there and 
making plays for my team,”Maye said. 
“Just trying to do my part, 
do my job out there on defense. 
Just trying to contribute.”FOOTBALL,  from pg17Maye has played 
linebacker at times
— the same amount as UF All-American 
corner Vernon Hargreaves — and has de-fended eight passes, which ranks tied 
for fourth nationally among linebackers. 
Moore’s presence will force Florida quar-terback Treon Harris to attempt more pass-es along the sidelines or deeper down the 
ﬁ  eld.
Containing Cooper:  Pharoh Cooper 
serves as the heart of South Carolina’s 
passing game. The junior wide receiver has 
a team-best 48 catches, 656 yards and ﬁ  ve 
touchdowns. He’s already rattled off four 100-yard 
games this season, most recently a seven-
catch, 160-yard outing against Vanderbilt 
on Oct. 17. No one else on the team has more than 20 catches or 300 receiving yards.
Recent series success:  As of late, 
South Carolina has found ways to end up on top against Florida. The Gamecocks 
have won four of the last ﬁ  ve matchups 
in the series, with their lone loss coming in 2012. 
Last season, South Carolina won 23-20 
in overtime in a game that ultimately cost Will Muschamp his job. With the Gators leading 17-10 in the fourth quarter, South Carolina blocked a UF ﬁ  eld goal and punt 
on back-to-back drives before tying the 
game with 12 seconds left when Mike Da-vis recovered his own fumble in the end zone. 
South Carolina held Florida to a ﬁ  eld 
goal in the ﬁ  rst overtime period and then took the win after Dylan Thompson capped off a four-play, 25-yard drive with a 4-yard rushing touchdown.
This and that: This year marks the 
second consecutive season where South Carolina has a losing conference record. 
The Gamecocks are also on the verge of 
their ﬁ  rst overall losing season since 2003, when they went 5-7 overall and 2-6 in SEC play. 
Outside of rushing offense, South Caro-
lina is ranked 10th or worse in the 14-team SEC in all yard-based offensive and defen-sive categories.
The Gamecocks have used a different 
starting lineup on offense in every game this season and a different starting lineup on defense in eight of nine contests (UCF 
and Missouri). 
Nine South Carolina players have start-
ed every game this season, six on offense 
(Cooper and offensive linemen Brandon Shell, Mike Matulis, Alan Knott, Will Sport 
and Mason Zandi) and three on defense 
(Moore, defensive tackle Gerald Dixon Jr. and defensive end Marquavius Lewis).SCOUTING,  from pg17HOOPS,  from pg17
"Oh my goodness. Pray more, 
I guess. You just hope that the 
percentages you shoot in practice 
carry over to the games."
Mike White
UF men's basketball coach20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015
