We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 39 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015
UF men’s basketball emphasizing 
improved shooting
Florida ranked 256th in three-point shooting 
last season, pg. 15
Civil rights activist to speak at UF
He will discuss the Voting Rights Act, pg. 5
Small town mayor stops in GNV
He’s biking to Key West, pg. 9We’ve got spirit, how ‘bout you?
Check out the photo story, pg. 3
IT’S TO CELEBRATE THE 
IMPORTANCE OF FORGIVENESS.
By Michaela Steakley
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rachel Hofer always wanted to understand 
mental illness.
It came from a love for her community and 
concern for mental health awareness, a desire 
that pushed her to become a counselor and form 
Loving Therapy and Life Coaching, a Gainesville 
nonproﬁ  t mental health counseling service, in 2013.
“I’ve always been a really deep thinker,” she 
said. “My friends tell me that I’m very self-reﬂ  ec-tive and I always have been.”
Now, Hofer, 32, is pushing for statewide rec-
ognition of National Forgiveness Day, so people with disabilities and people who have been bul-lied can address and forgive the mental damage done.  
The purpose of the day is to celebrate the pow-
er and importance of forgiveness, Hofer said.
“It doesn’t mean that you pretend that some-
thing negative didn’t happen to you, and it doesn’t mean you weren’t wronged,” Hofer said. “The focus is really on self-forgiveness here.”
Fourteen other states have a proclaimed Na-
tional Forgiveness Day, and Hofer said she wants Florida to be the next to join them.
Hofer’s celebration will involve an event at 
Market Street Pub and Cabaret downtown, locat-ed at 112 SW First Ave., from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. Sat-urday. There will be local organizations present to support the cause, performances by a comedian and S-Connection Aerial Arts and an open micro-phone available to anyone who wants to perform songs, music or poetry.
“National Forgiveness Day is a big thing that National Forgiveness Day to focus on mental health
SEE FORGIVENESS,  PAGE 4CAMPUS
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Barbie Diaz is a survivor.At 12, it was lightning. At 18, it was a stroke.When the lightning hit, she was 
standing in a puddle in Puerto Rico.
When the stroke happened, she 
was driving on Archer Road.
Had they gone differently, both 
incidents could have ended her life. 
Instead, Diaz lived and is now 
working toward her medical de-gree so she can help others sur-
vive. Now 23, she’s a UF Span-ish and neurobio-logical sciences senior and ex-pects to graduate 
in a year and a half.
“I had to accept that everyone has 
a different timeline,” she said. “I just 
need to focus on getting through this 
and being healthy.”
      
In July 2004, a bolt of lightning 
struck her. After the lightning strike, she was knocked out for 20 minutes. 
Her dog, an 18-month-old yellow 
Labrador mix named Mia, licked her 
awake. 
She spent the next three months 
suffering from migraines and night 
sweats. Diaz said she was trying to ﬁ  x her TV’s signal when she was hit.
“I heard a ﬂ  ash and hit the 
ground,” she said. “I thought I was electrocuted, but it was too strong to be an electrocution.”
The grass where she had been 
standing was scorched.
      
On Nov. 17, 2010, Diaz had a 
stroke. After the stroke, it was two months of recovery, three and a half years of chemotherapy, monthly anti-inﬂ  ammatory infusions and 10 
pills a day. 
Diaz said she was driving back 
to Graham Hall from the Oaks Mall Student 
continues studies after stroke
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
For about an hour Thursday af-
ternoon, Turlington Plaza resembled 
the Israeli-Palestinian border.
There was a distinct divide be-
tween more than 200 Israeli sup-porters and 15 Palestinian support-ers. While the Palestinian defenders’ numbers were small, their yells 
made up for their lacking headcount.
Both sides of the border have a 
decades-long history of bloodshed 
over cultural and religious tensions. There has been an increase in vio-lent attacks over the past month, in-cluding several stabbings and shoot-ings.
UF Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish 
Student Center organized a rally on the plaza to show support for Israel and pray for the victims and the 
country.
“People throughout Israel are un-
der constant threat,” said Rabbi Berl 
Goldman of Lubavitch-Chabad. “We need to do what we can — physi-cally, spiritually and emotionally.”
Goldman began the rally by ad-
dressing the crowd of about 200 stu-dents, most of whom sympathized with Israel. Some wore yamakas and others tied Israeli ﬂ  ags around 
their necks as they gathered to lis-
ten.
“There’s no doubt the people of Protests at Israeli-Palestinian rally
SEE PROTEST,  PAGE 4Diaz
SEE STROKE,  PAGE 4
Ellie Kremer, left, a 21-year-old UF production senior, and Aman-
da T ankel, a 23-year-old UF ﬁ  nance senior, wave Israel’s national ﬂ  ag in a rally for peace in Israel on Turlington Plaza on Thursday. “No matter where we stand, we stand with Israel, ” T ankel said.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
The rally was for IsraelSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Friday Program at Krishna House
Come and attend this week’s 
Friday Program at Krishna House to learn about “Why bad things happen to good people.” The 
program starts at 7 p.m. with 
Mantra Meditation, followed by Ice Breaker Session and Talk on the Topic. Dinner will be served at 8:15 p.m. Make every week complete with eternal knowledge by attending Friday programs at Krishna House. No registration is required. Please join us at Krishna 
House at 214 NW 14th St.
UF Ultimate Frisbee team
The UF Ultimate Frisbee team 
takes on Florida State today at 7:30 p.m. at Southwest Rec Fields. Come out to see what ultimate frisbee looks like on a competitive level. There will be 
two games, a rookie game and 
the showcase game. More infor-mation can be found at facebook.com/events/1518103905148513/
Swamp Bowl Flag Football 
TournamentDon’t forget to register for the Swamp Bowl Flag Football tour-
nament by Tuesday at 5 p.m. 
Compete against teams from more than 30 universities that send their best Intramural. The tournament will take place Oct. 23 to 25. You can have all-male or all-female teams that consist 
of seven players or co-rec teams 
with eight players (four men and four women). Register on RSConnect.
Adventure Race
Adventure Race 2015 will be Oct. 24 at Lake Wauburg. If you have not registered yet, you can still 
register on RSConnect to be on 
the waiting list if a team drops out. 
‘First Colony: Our Spanish 
Origins’ Exhibit Celebration“First Colony: Our Spanish Origins” comes to the Florida Museum of Natural History! 
This bilingual and interactive 
exhibit reveals the story of how Spaniards, free and enslaved Africans and Native Americans crafted America’s original “melt-ing pot” in St. Augustine in 1565, long before Jamestown. Join the museum Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. as we welcome the ex-
hibit with a free celebration in-
cluding hands-on activities and displays. For more information, call 352-846-2000.
GatorNights
GatorNights will have a "Welcome to New York" themed event on Friday from 8 p.m. un-til 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature Joe’s Spray Can Artist, live music from DJ 
Olympus and the Pride Student 
Union Drag Ball. GatorNights will also show the movie Trainwreck at 8 p.m. and at 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free pizza and Broadway karaoke during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their 
Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be 
current students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to 
afigueroa@alligator.org. Please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releas-es will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 39
HIGH  86° LOW  59°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa Puello
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
ABOVE:
Arden Lambert (left) an 
18-year-old UF electrical en-gineering freshman, signs a petition for the Florida Com-petitive Workforce Act. Ga-briela Delva (right) a 23-year-old UF political science senior and pride tabler on the Plaza of the Americas, said the act is “something we need to pass. ”
LEFT:
Noel Opava, an 18-year-old UF psychology freshman, jumps in a bouncy castle on the Plaza of the Americas for LGBTQ+ Spirit Day on Thursday. 
Flags, book pages and hair 
ﬂ  apped in the breeze Thurs-day on the Plaza of the Americas during Pride History Week’s LGBTQ+ Spirit Day, 
the penultimate event before the colorful week concludes.  
A plethora of tables were 
propped up on the walkway toward Library West, including feminist bookstore Wild Iris Books and a petition-signing table for the Florida Competitive Workforce Act. Further along the path, students jumped for 
pride in an inﬂ  atable castle, aptly colored like the rainbow.
One such student, Noble Nolen, 
a 20-year-old UF economics junior, 
said, “I just enjoy bouncing,” as she came out of the bounce house.
Pride Student Union hosted 
Pride History Week: The Age of Hol-lywood this week to educate people about the queer community and change the way LGBTQ+ relations are perceived. The week will con-clude with the “Powder, Pearls and Pumps” Drag Ball tonight at 8 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
Photos by Emma Green / AlligatorWe’ve got spirit, how ‘bout you?
Paper ﬂ  ags representing various 
sexual orientations were stuck into the soil on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday. They were part of the LGBTQ+ Spirit Day for Pride History Week.Israel are alive,” Goldman told the crowd.
Goldman urged an end to the violence, 
hatred and apathy currently affecting Israel. 
He said people must inform themselves of the country’s current reality.
Midway through the rally, Goldman began 
a patriotic chant, and the crowd interlocked arms and swayed.
“Long live the state of Israel,” the students 
chanted in Hebrew before reciting the Israeli 
national anthem.After a few minutes, faintly audible over 
the couple hundred voices, impassioned 
chants from behind the crowd rose up.
“Viva, Viva, Palestina! Free, Free Pales-
tine!” the protesters yelled, signs in hand. “Netanyahu, shame on you. Palestinians are 
people, too!”
The counter-protest, organized by Students 
for Justice in Palestine at UF, aimed to educate 
students about the discrimination and oppres-sion Palestinians suffer at the hands of Israel, said Brian Feldman, a member of SJP.
“We believe that solidarity for Israel is in 
itself a racist statement,” the UF political sci-ence senior said. “It implies solidarity with op-
pression and occupation.”
Feldman, 22, said the Israeli military has 
indiscriminately targeted Palestinians for de-
cades, bombing homes and families.
“This is not a religious issue,” he said. “It is 
a basic human rights issue.”
On the other end of Turlington, Rabbi 
Goldman looked on at the protesters.  
“That’s pure rhetoric and nonsense,” he 
said of Feldman’s claims. “When you scream, it doesn’t make you right.”
UF electrical engineering senior Shir Ar-
zuhan stood near the Israeli side of the Plaza with a white-and-blue flag tied around her neck.
The 22-year-old said Thursday wasn’t her 
first time attending a rally of this nature.
“I’m sad we have to come here so often,” 
she said.
when she felt her left side went numb. At first, she brushed it off. She figured it had been from pulling all-nighters for a calculus exam.
Then she realized she couldn’t 
move her left arm, she said. 
Diaz’s silver Jeep bumped against 
a median on Archer Road, causing 
her to hit the back of a champagne 
Chevrolet Silverado that was turning onto 34th Street from Archer Road, she said. 
Diaz’s speech was slurred. Her 
left side tingled. The left side of her face dropped.
Diaz said she knew she was 
having a stroke, remembering the 
symptoms from high-school medical 
classes.
Diaz told paramedics she thought 
she was having a stroke. 
As she was being transported, the 
UF Health Shands Comprehensive Stroke Center team waited for her as she arrived at the UF Health Hospital.  
Dr. Brian Hoh, a UF endovascular 
neurosurgeon, and Dr. Michael Wa-ters, a vascular neurologist and direc-tor of Shands’ Comprehensive Stroke Center, were part of the team who treated Diaz.
After some tests, Hoh said doctors 
found a blood clot that prevented blood from getting to her brain.
Hoh said he removed a blood clot 
and was able to restore blood flow.
He said if Diaz hadn’t been near 
UF’s stroke center, the results could have been different.
“She would either have died 
or ended up paralyzed,” he said. “Here you have a young person with dreams of career and family.”
Diaz said she remembered wak-ing up at 4 a.m. and seeing her fam-ily. The first person she saw was her 
dad.
“That was probably the second 
time I’ve seen him cry,” she said.
Her dad, Pablo Diaz, was numb 
with fear. He said he was afraid of 
losing his daughter.
“You don’t have words to explain 
what’s going through your mind,” he said. 
When she woke up, he said he 
thought it was a miracle.
“God operates in mysterious 
ways,” he said.
Waters and Hoh were there for a 
reason, he said.
“Without them and the Lord, Bar-
bie would not be here now,” he said.
Diaz said her family was shocked 
she had a stroke.
“They all kinda just freaked out 
on me and told me I wasn’t supposed to die before any of them,” she said.
Diaz’s mother, Nancy Babilonia, 
said she found out her daughter had a stroke when she got home from work. 
After doctors removed the clot, 
they told Babilonia her daughter had an angel, she said.
“I am a person with a lot of faith,” 
she said. “Whatever happened to her is because He has a reason for that.”
Four days later, Diaz said she 
walked out of the hospital. 
Diaz said she was lucky — every-
thing bad that could have happened 
did, but everything good that could 
have happened did, too. 
“They had said that if I had made 
it back to my dorm and fallen asleep, I would never have woken up,” she said. “I like to think it was the perfect storm of bad luck.”
•   •   •
In February 2011, she went back to the hospital to find out what caused the stroke. Eye doctors diagnosed her with Takayasu’s arteritis, a disease that causes arteries to become so inflamed they shut down and block blood flow, causing a stroke.
She said the biggest challenge for 
her to overcome was regaining the emotions she lost due to minor brain damage.
“I remember saying I was in love, 
but not feeling I was in love,” she said.
It took her about two years to re-
cover her emotions, she said.
Once she got them back, she said 
it was overwhelming. 
In order to cope with the sud-
den onslaught of emotions, she said she turned to painting and craft-ing. She channeled her emotions through art by painting scenic areas in Gainesville, such as Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park, Devil’s Millhop-
per Geological State Park and Lake 
Alice.
In addition to balancing out her 
emotions, she was faced with anoth-er challenge: school.
Walking to class became an or-
deal. She was slower and had a limp. 
She had to take some semesters 
off for physical therapy.
Diaz also got double test-taking 
time because remembering informa-tion was harder, she said.
For now, Diaz said she wants to 
focus on herself in her 20s. 
“I realized tomorrow wasn’t guar-
anteed,” she said.
It used to be that she dreaded 
July 27 — her birthday and another 
year older. She dreaded the thought 
of gray hair and wrinkles.  But that’s not the case anymore. 
“I used to, like, freak out,” she 
said. “And now I hope I get gray hair.”4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015
PROTEST,  from pg1Rally was to inform people of conflict in the region
can help people who have been through a lot in their lives,” said Daphnee Paul, who graduated from UF last May with a degree in family, youth and community sciences.
Paul, 24, a volunteer with Loving Therapy, 
said she was bullied as a child and even at-tacked by a group of boys. She believes people hurt themselves when they bottle up their feel-ings instead of forgiving those who have hurt them.
“They’re only hurting themselves by keep-
ing it inside,” she said. “It’s good to talk to a counselor and let it out.”
Chris Thomas, 52, the president of Loving 
Therapy, said Hofer was the first person he met who actually wanted to be on the ground, working to find alternative methods for treating mental illness.
“When I met her,” he said, “I thought, 
whoa, she’s passionate about this.”
The goal is to make National Forgiveness 
Day a national — and, eventually, global — ini-
tiative.
On National Forgiveness Day, Hofer said, 
the focus is on celebrating the beauty of life and 
what you have, instead of focusing on what 
you don’t have or how you have been hurt.
“It’s just a day to celebrate forgiveness,” 
Hofer said, “the power of forgiveness.”FORGIVENESS,  from pg1Goal is to make 
the day global
STROKE,  from pg1She was diagnosed with a diseased called Takayasu’s arteritisDanielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Farna T ahir (left front) a 21-year-old UF sociology senior, and Najla Faddoul, a 19-year-
old UF nutrition sophomore, yell “Viva, Viva Palestina, ” and “No justice, no peace, ” at the Israel solidarity rally and prayer event on Turlington Plaza on Thursday. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Barbie Diaz (center) poses with her sister, Zuly (left) and her niece and goddaughter, 7-year-old Zophia.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
Emma Green / Alligator
ABOVE:
Sameer Saboungi, a 21-year-old UF international studies and political science senior, 
duct tapes a sign in the Arab Students’ Association’s display while wearing a “Free Syria” shirt to represent the cause on Thursday.
LEFT:
Amani Flood, a 19-year-old UF digital arts and sciences sophomore, untangles a bunch of black balloons on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday. Each of the 24 bal-loons represented 500,000 displaced Syrians in the refugee crisis. “We want to make an impact to get more refugees in the United States, ” said Flood, who helped collect student signatures on a petition to open the U.S. to Syrian refugees.
CAMPUS
By Kylie Widseth
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rep. John Lewis (D-Georgia) is 
the last surviving member of the Big Six civil rights activists.
Tonight, Lewis will speak to UF 
students in the University Audito-rium about the impact of the Vot-ing Rights Act, which took away voting barriers for black Americans in 1965. This year marks the act’s 50th anniversary.
The talk, which will be held at 7 
p.m., is hosted by the Bob Graham Center for Public Service and will be live-streamed on its website. Tickets are free and will be distrib-uted at 5 p.m.
“We’ve wanted to have John 
Lewis here for quite some time,” said Shelby Taylor, communica-tions director for the Graham Cen-ter. “He’s kind of a last-living leg-
end in the civil rights movement 
and the March on Washington.”
UF exploratory freshman Livia 
Ledbetter said she will attend the talk because it’s important to learn 
about the history of the civil rights 
movement.
She said she thinks race rela-
tions have improved since the Vot-
ing Rights Act was established, but 
there’s still work to do.
“I think with the improve-
ments we have made, it makes a 
lot of people think we’re done,” the 
18-year-old said. “We’re definitely 
not done.”
A roundtable discussion will 
precede Lewis’ speech at 4 p.m.Civil rights activist to 
speak at UF on voting
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Twenty-four black balloons swayed in the 
wind on Thursday.
They were planted on the Plaza of the 
Americas, each representing half a million dis-
placed Syrians.
On behalf of the nearly 12 million Syrians 
displaced by their country’s bloody civil war, members of the Arab Students’ Association at UF stood around the balloons, collecting signa-tures from passersby.For several hours, the members, who plant-
ed the balloons Thursday morning, collected signatures to call for lawmakers to support leg-islation to allow more refugees into the U.S. and to support efforts to help those affected by the Syrian Civil War.
Mohammad Waleed, one of ASA’s mem-
bers collecting signatures, said the refugee cri-sis is personal to him. His wife is Syrian and he has family members displaced in Europe, he said. The 27-year-old UF geomatics masters student said he wants to encourage more Syr-ian refugees “to come to the United States to have a safe place to live.”“I feel that I could be in their place,” said 
Waleed, who was living in Saudi Arabia when the civil war began four years ago. “It was God’s mercy that I was outside the country at that time (the war broke out).”
Natalia Tohme was another of several ASA 
members affected by the refugee crisis. Of Leb-anese descent, the 19-year-old UF international studies sophomore said she saw many more Syrian refugees than in the past when she vis-ited her family in Akkar,  which borders Syria, this summer.
She said if the U.S. takes in more refugees, 
it will alleviate pressure off countries like Leba-non.
“Of course it will affect us here,” Tohme 
said. “(But) I don’t think it’s going to be such a great effect because we’re such a massive country. …I honestly feel like we have some room for them”
ASA collected “a little over 500 signatures” 
by the end of the day, club President Amanda Makhoul wrote in an email.
“I think it’s so sad what’s going on in Syria 
right now,” said Laura Martin, a UF anthropol-ogy and Jewish studies senior who signed the petition. The 22-year-old said she wanted to support the refugees in any way she could.
Arab Students’ Association petitions to help refugees By Molly Donovan
Alligator Contributing Writer
More than 130 tables lined the 
walls of the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom on Thursday morning 
as students chatted with gradu-
ate-school admissions officers.
The UF Career Resource Cen-
ter hosted its annual Graduate 
and Professional Schools Fair, 
where UF students and alumni explored grad-school options.
With admissions officers from 
Boston College, New York Uni-
versity and University of Iowa, 
Jasmin Robinson, CRC assistant director for recruitment services and events, said students had 
a large variety of graduate pro-
grams to choose from.
“Schools really run the gamut as far as programs available,” Robinson said.
West Virginia University Col-
lege of Law assistant director of admissions Alice Foley ate a Starbucks scone as students trickled in.
“Most schools start taking ap-
plications in the Fall, so this is a great time for us to start mak-ing those connections with stu-
dents,” Foley said.
She said WVU Law receives a 
lot of applications from UF stu-
dents.
UF Master of Business Ad-
ministration assistant director of admissions Christine Plumley said being at the fair was impor-tant.
“We always have a lot of 
returning Gators who are in-terested in becoming a ‘double Gator,’” she said.
UF finance sophomore Friday 
Ezenwa said he attended the fair to explore his grad-school op-tions.
The 19-year-old said he loves 
fashion and wants to network with business programs that will 
help him succeed.
“There’s good names here, 
so I’m just exploring my options 
right now,” he said.Students look to higher education
Met admissions officers
“Most schools start taking 
applications in the Fall, 
so this is a great time for 
us to start making those 
connections with students.”
Alice Foley
West Virginia University College 
of Law assistant director of 
admissions
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator StaffThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
What do you know? It’s already Oct. 16. One moment you’re 
a beaming freshman full of life, optimism and drive, and with 
the blink of an eye, you’re already a jaded, sleep-deprived, 
nerve-ridden upperclassman waiting to get your next coffee 
fix. Be careful in these upcoming weeks, and don’t let time slip through your fingers too easily. With that said, it’s time for … 
Darts & Laurels
On Monday, Playboy Magazine announced it would no lon-
ger be running nude pictures within its pages, having been run out of the market by the Wild West world of online pornogra-
phy. As much sense as it makes, it’s a bit of a shame; for the 
better part of half a century now, getting one’s hands on a Play-boy was seen as a rite of passage for young men. Playboy’s ad-mittance of defeat is yet another stark reminder that the times, 
they are a-changin’.
For demonstrating good business acumen and knowing 
when they’ve been beat, Playboy Magazine gets a bunny-
shaped Laurel. As always, the slow, inevitable march of 
time and technological process gets a Dart.
A wise fictional character once said, “Sometimes science is a 
lot more art than science.” This may have proved true this week when Danish researchers made an unexpected breakthrough in cancer research. While researching ways to protect pregnant 
women from malaria, the researchers noted that malaria pro-
teins attack cancer cells in the same manner they do healthy, functional ones.
As reported by British newspaper “The Independent,” “Sci-
entists have combined the bit of protein that the malaria vaccine 
uses to bury into cells and combined it with a toxin — that can 
then bury into cancer cells and release the toxin, killing them off.”
For asserting  the future is well and truly here without having 
to kill off nudie mags, these Danish researchers get a Laurel.
On Thursday, our long national nightmare ended and “Na-
than For You,” returned to our television screens. For those who are unfamiliar with the show, every episode sees comedian Nathan Fielder working with struggling businesses to help them 
become more profitable. This sounds all well and good until 
you see the schemes that are concocted, such as poop-flavored yogurt for a fro-yo joint or the infamous “Dumb Starbucks.” Last night’s episode was as great as ever, and it happened to 
involve an actual alligator stopping potential customers from 
claiming $1 high-definition televisions.
For unintentionally repping UF, as well as providing the fun-
niest study of human behavior on television, Fielder gets an awkward, oddly confident Laurel.
We honestly don’t want to write about Bernie Sanders all 
that much within these pages; the Internet and other publica-tions already do an admirable job of covering “the Bern” and sometimes it feels redundant on our part. However, last night 
Sen. Sanders once again demonstrated his upstanding moral 
and ethical character, and we’d be remiss not to acknowledge it.
Yesterday, it emerged that Martin Shkreli, the infamous CEO 
of Turing Pharmaceuticals and the man responsible for jacking up the price of AIDS medication, had made a sizable contribu-
tion to Sanders’ presidential campaign to gain an audience with 
Sen. Sanders. In response, Sanders not only donated the money to the Whitman-Walker health clinic in Washington, but also declined to meet with Shkreli.
For being the rare politician unwilling to play the game and 
actually stick to his moral compass, Sanders gets a Laurel.Live your life and don’t treat age as a mile marker
I turned 21 over the summer. It was bit-
tersweet: The luxury of being able to buy beer was offset by a deluge of anxieties about my future. Was I doing the right thing? What should I have been doing? 
Was I where I was supposed to be at 21?
It’s normal for people my age to worry 
about the future, especially those on the precipice of leaving the bosom of college and entering the “real world.”  Deciding where you’d like to be in life and how you want to get there is a constructive albeit stressful pro-cess we must all undergo. However, in thinking about these things, we are often inclined to use our numeri-
cal age as an indicator for where we “should be.” This 
practice, while subtle, is incredibly pervasive and can lead to a great deal of unnecessary anxiety.
Age often functions as a quantitative measure of 
one’s progress on a prescribed, socially acceptable time-line. Pick a career around 22, find your future spouse around 26, get married and have kids at 30 — this was the general life template my peers and I were taught to follow. It benefited me because it got me thinking 
about my career options early on, but it also caused 
me to think about them in the wrong way. By being too concerned about my adherence to this template, I briefly considered pursuing careers I knew, deep down, I was fundamentally wrong for. I felt, in order to be fi-nancially stable enough to have a family by 30, I’d have to pick a practical, well-paying job — and quickly. I was so preoccupied with the need to do everything at the right time and at the right age that I temporarily lost 
sight of what I actually wanted to do.
Fortunately, all that came of this was a short-lived 
stint in the accounting department before I ran back to 
economics. However, I still felt periodically overcome with worries about whether or not I was “on track” for my age. It wasn’t until my birthday that I understood how flawed this concept really is.
At the time of my birthday, I was interning in Lon-don at an economics think tank. One of my fellow interns was a girl from Mali who at-tended college in the United Kingdom. Simi-larly to me, she was entering her last year of college. I asked her how old she was, par-
tially out of curiosity, but mostly because a 
small, insecure part of me wanted another person by which to gauge my perceived life progress. She wasn’t sure, because her home village didn’t have a set measurement for age. While I am sure she had some notion of her relative age, I loved how she didn’t con-
cern herself with exact numbers. By removing age as a milestone, the concept of where she “should” be in life 
was also effectively removed.
It was then I realized what age really means to 
most of us. In your youth, it’s a means of compari-
son, of validating you are indeed doing the right things for your stage in life. Later on, it’s a measurement of your relative vitality, of how far you’ve come and how much time you have left. It’s the reason I have friends who feel they’re doomed to a life of loneliness because they’re single at 26, and the reason why my mother 
keeps hinting at the desire to be a grandmother before 
she gets “too old.” For the most part, it is an arbitrary number serving to remind us where we are on a certain path.
At this point, I wish to emphasize that disregarding 
age as a milestone should not function as an excuse to move back in with your parents for 10 years while you “figure it out.” Instead, it should serve to make your passions and goals the driving force in your life as op-
posed to anxieties about whether you’re doing what 
you’re supposed to when you’re supposed to do it. Ul-timately, we will all lead different lives, with different experiences happening at different times. 
But what do I know? I’m only 21.Namwan Leavell is a UF economics senior. Her col-
umn appears on Fridays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Namwan
 Leavell
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Tuesday was No 
Bra Day, which would nor-
mally be my 
favorite public 
holiday. An excuse to ditch the confinement of underwire? Sign me up.
Except the “holi-
day” was started under the guise of “breast cancer aware-ness.”
Now, because this may 
sound like I don’t support breast 
cancer awareness, let me be the 
first to say I do. My maternal grandmother died from breast cancer, and I fully believe there 
needs to be a focus on screening 
efforts and finding a cure.
I just don’t agree with how 
we’re doing it. Breast Cancer Awareness Month, which is 
held in the month of October, 
is currently too sexualized to be as beneficial as it needs to be.
Take No Bra Day as an ex-
ample. The post on the Aware-ness Days website is mostly just describing breasts, devoid of any real point. Seriously, it uses the term “boobies” three times and encourages women to wear 
a white shirt and take pictures 
of themselves.
The only reference to breast 
cancer is one sentence at the very end: “Breast Cancer is 
something you should take seri-
ously and be checked for.”
But it’s hard to take breast 
cancer seriously when all the 
awareness campaigns do is 
trivialize and sexualize what should be understood as a hor-
rific illness.    
Is a day clearly engineered so 
men can ogle nipples really the 
best way to raise awareness for a deadly disease?
On that same note, is buying 
an “I <3 boobies” wristband for $15 — with only a portion going to fund research — the 
best way to find a cure?
Probably not, when you 
could be donating $15 directly 
to research instead.
We don’t sexualize other dis-
eases like we do breast cancer. No one makes bracelets that say “I <3 the male G-spot” for prostate cancer.
It comes down to our cultur-
al preoccupation with breasts. 
We fetishize breast cancer 
because we think breasts are sexy.
It’s disconcerting. A friend of mine recently 
pointed out this sad fact: Sav-ing women’s lives is dependent 
on the perceived sex appeal of 
breasts.
Because really, you don’t 
“heart” all boobies. It’s not cool or popular to love the breasts of a 68-year-old grand-
mother. We only care 
about the breasts we deem worth saving — round, perky and sexually appealing.
It’s a shame our so-
ciety cares more about 
the perfect, double-D chest of a young woman than her life or her and her family's feelings. 
It’s a shame we put more ef-
fort in saving these breasts than 
we do finding ways to fund 
mammograms and mastecto-mies.
When we put the entire fo-
cus of breast cancer on breasts, we do a few problematic things. 
For one, we make it seem as if 
the only reason breast cancer is a bad thing is because women lose their sexuality and their 
sex appeal. We also make it 
seem as if breast cancer only af-fects women.
It can be argued that all 
these things — the “I <3 Boo-
bies” wristbands, “save the ta-
tas” T-shirts, No Bra Day — are productive in that they raise awareness. But at some point, 
we have to do more than raise 
awareness.
Awareness means nothing if 
we don’t work toward a solu-tion.
Posting braless selfies for 
No Bra Day does not help find a cure. It does not increase ac-cess to low-cost breast cancer 
screening. It does not support 
survivors. It does not help the families who lost loved ones.  
Breast cancer is a deadly dis-
ease. It is not sexy. We don’t 
need to save the “ta-tas.” We 
need to save lives.
Robyn Smith is a UF journal-
ism senior. Her column appears 
on Fridays.Don’t just “save the ta-
tas” — let's save lives Column
On Tuesday afternoon, I was re-
grettably introduced to an article written by The Wall Street Jour-nal columnist Bret Stephens, a column so repugnant it left a nau-
sea in me that has yet to go away.
What upset me the most wasn’t the 
article itself, so much as the fact it was shared — with resounding agreement — by people whom I love and respect, friends whom I know to be rational, thoughtful and genuinely exemplary human beings. What could possibly motivate them to place on a pedestal the work of a man who applauds torture by 
our government and sincerely views the incinera-
tion of some 100,000 civilians by nuclear holocaust as a gift from God?
Well, understandably, we find ourselves wit-
nessing the birth pangs of a potential third Inti-fada, a new escalation of violence in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict without end. Like the effect of the sun’s gravity on light, this eternal war tends to warp the sensibilities of whomever it comes into 
contact with.
We could list examples of violence on both sides, 
of which each has a favorite they like to point to. 
I’m not going to do that. However, I must put Ste-phens’ piece in context: Terrorists from Palestine have stabbed several Israelis in the last month, acts which have been encouraged by several Gazan and Islamic leaders.
I shouldn’t have to preface my opinion by say-
ing, as a pacifist, an anti-racist and a philo-Semite, these events anguish me. Remorse for loss of life shouldn’t be a political statement.
If Stephens is to be believed, then my tendency 
to view this conflict with nuance (where victim-hood and blame can be found on both sides of that 430-mile-long wall) makes me an accessory to mur-der.
Stephens’ column is reprehensible for a number 
of reasons — too many to go into here. But there are several that stand out as particularly abhorrent. For one, his comparison of the stabbings to white supremacist violence in the U.S. is an infuriating false equivalency. Analogies are never a great tool for explaining events accurate-ly, but this one holds up to even less scru-tiny than most. It’s not just a cheap and shameless attempt to co-opt a struggle the 
black community faces daily at the hands 
of white supremacy and police forces that use tactics perfected by the Israel Defense Forces to suppress protests. It’s a dishon-est portrayal that obliterates the context of the conflict, projecting an image of 
Israel as a blameless victim of insane racism with no hand in the conflict’s escalation or its origin. But let’s play Stephens’ analogy game: Let’s reduce 
the situation to its most basic, un-ideological com-
ponents: innocent citizens of a colonial state en-counter violent, desperate attacks from the native population, which itself is routinely subjected to collective punishment and annihilation by the co-lonial government. That looks a great deal less like white-on-black racism and more like the conflicts between Native Americans and white settlers dur-ing a less savory point in our nation’s history.
This isn’t to discount the responsibility of eth-
nic hatred in these knife attacks, which again I un-equivocally condemn. But Stephens explains them as a function of racism alone, while projecting that very sort of ethnic essentialism onto Palestinians as a whole, as if every last Arab inhabitant of Palestine is anxiously waiting to plunge a knife into an Israeli throat. It’s quite evident in his language when he refers to supposed Palestinian “communal blood-
lust,” or how he never once differentiates between 
terrorists and civilians. For him, the culprits and Palestinians are one, guilty because of their ethnic-ity. It doesn’t take a genius to see where that logic leads — certainly not toward fewer deaths.
At the end of his lamentation that media covers 
both sides of the conflict, Stephens states those who disagree with him are “accomplices” in these acts of terrorism. Mild criticism of Israeli policy makes one 
responsible for the murder of Jewish people; Bret 
Stephens makes me sick.
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His column 
appears on Fridays.
Israel: False equivalencies, poor argumentsColumn
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.org
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org
“Breast Cancer 
Awareness 
Month, which is 
currently held 
in the month 
of October, is 
currently too 
sexualized to be 
as beneicial as 
it needs to be.”8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
Clint Johnson has no money 
and no idea where he’s sleeping 
tonight. 
But he does have people will-
ing to help him on the way. 
That was the case Satur-
day night when he bicycled to Gainesville, having traveled 159 miles from the Capitol building in Tallahassee. 
Gainesville was one of sev-
eral stops as Johnson heads to the southernmost point in Key West. 
He will be biking 810 miles 
in hopes of raising $5,000 for Friends of Volusia and bring-ing attention to the Florida Trail Network. 
“People I’ve met on this trip 
have all been really generous and supportive of the cause,” he said.
Johnson is the mayor of De-
Bary, a small town of about 20,000 residents located be-tween Orlando and Daytona Beach.
He left his mayoral duties on 
Oct. 8 to bike. Johnson became motivated 
to bike the trails after Volusia County began planning to com-
bine trails across the county into 
one long trail 
without includ-ing the trail in 
the heart of De-
Bary. 
“That would 
do wonders for 
interconnectiv-ity and all bik-
ers in neighboring cities’ safe passage,” Johnson said.
So Johnson, whose longest 
bike ride was 34 miles two weeks before the trip began, de-
cided to bike. 
“I don’t want to insist on 
spending taxpayer money on the 
trail system if I haven’t been out 
on the street,” he said. 
On the way, Johnson has 
headphones plugged into his 
cellphone mounted on his han-dlebars to keep up with his may-
oral duties.
He hopes to reach Key West 
by Thursday. 
But Saturday night, he 
stopped in Gainesville where he 
stayed with a UF student from the Team Florida Cycling team. Running off of donations, 
Johnson has spent time in hotels that have offered him space or camped out on the trail. 
Collin Zeng, a UF biology ju-
nior, opened his home to John-son despite having never met him.
The next morning, Zeng and 
Johnson set off together on the Hawthorne Trail. 
Zeng rode the 20-mile-long 
trail with Johnson before turn-
ing back around.
“He’s a super cool guy, re-
ally down to earth and really 
passionate about cycling,” the 
20-year-old said. “He talked 
about his trip and said to raise awareness about cycling, he wanted to make the people in Tallahassee feel a little bit un-
comfortable to stir up some 
change.”
While Johnson was in 
Gainesville, Dragonfly restau-
rant general manager Dave Pias-
ecki donated a meal and a Relish employee donated a beer. 
Johnson said although city 
officials have not yet responded 
to his journey, he is optimistic 
they will see the value by the end of it.
“It’s much safer and more 
fun on a trail than on a danger-ous street,” he said.Small town mayor stops in GNV
Johnson
He’s biking to Key W est
CELEBRATING COMMUNITY 
UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines speaks 
during Hispanic Heritage Month’s closing ceremony on Thursday evening at UF Hillel. Padron-Rasines spoke about learning to be proud of where she’s from and ﬁ  ghting for her community. “No matter how different our roles are, we are connected by our community, ” she said. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator StaffFRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
1 bed available in 2/1 w/ mature female stu-dent. $425.00 monthly including utilities and high-speed internet. 2 miles from UF. (352) 631-0737    10-16-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
WANTED: Serious student for peace & 
quiet. Private 1BR, unfurnished, garage apt in town, NW Gainesville. $525/mo. Call 376-6294    10-19-5-2
MUST SEE-3/2 house minutes from UF and Shands.Beautiful inside - upgraded kitchen with granite and stainless steel appliances, large fenced in back yard. $1400. 727-512-2468. Available immediately.    10-20-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
Darrell Elmore & Associates, LLCReal Estate Services“Your house is my house, let me sell it!”Phone: (352) 213-9530Email: lafincainvestments@gmail.com    10-16-15-5-5
Blue Ridge Mtns of NCHandcrafted 2/2 log cabin on threeacres $159,900. Huge trees, boldstream, new appliances, screenedporch, fireplace. (866) 738-5522    10-16-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
Public Auction Processing/MfgMachinery & Equip. In Space Frmly OccupiedBy Signature Butter10/27 @ 10am15300 Park of Commerce Blvd,Jupiter, FL 33478Filling Machines, Packing Machines, Letina S/S Tanks, Paddle Mixer, Pasteurizers, Vast Qty. of Mold Trays, Reach-Fork Truck, Conveyor Sys., Stretch Wrapper, Air Compressor, Sealing Systems, Hndlg Carts & Equip., Whse Equip. & more! (All well maintained equip.)Prvw: 10/26 10-3pm15%-18% BP Live/Online www.moeckerauctions.com   (800) 840-BIDSAB-1098  AU-3219, Eric Rubin    10-16-1-10
 Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Collins Reinforcing is now hiring Rodbusters rebar ironworkers experienced and non ex-perienced for work at the Gainsville Standard Call 828 442 9798 or 828 659 2867    10-27-14-14NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance, music
and much more in an
after school program at various schools.
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed.
12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/ Equal Opportunity 
Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call EDEP office
@ 955-7766
10-16-15-5-14Girls Place is Your First Place to Make a Difference! Now hiring CDL drivers, af-ter school counselors and tutors. Visit GirlsPlace.net for details. @girlsplaceinc    10-21-15-5-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    10-16-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    10-16-1-16
ATTN: Drivers - $2K Sign-On BonusRecent Pay Increase! We Put Drivers FirstFamily Company w/ 401k Beautiful Trucks CDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782 www.drive4melton.com    10-16-1-14Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. 
EOE    10-16-1-16
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesFRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    10-16-1-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
22 Tickets
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Oxygen ConcentratorInogenOne - Regain Independence.Enjoy Greater Mobility. NO more Tanks!100% Portable Long-LastingBattery. Try It RISK-FREE! ForCash Buyers Call 1-800-768-4124    10-16-1-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    10-16-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
ACROSS
1 Type of hippo
6 59-Down product9 Color guard
accessory
14 Child on TV for
decades
15 Virgo preceder16 “I’m here”17 Hummingbird
feature?
19 Enjoyed Vegas20 Valley21 Place to live in
Spain
23 Sore feeling24 Purported
ancestor ofRagnar Lothbrokon TV’s “Vikings”
26 Foothills?29 Crazy scene30 Call-day link
31 Value
32 Did a cobbler’s
job
34 Stain37 Hot Wheels
Volkswagen?
41 Hoedown move
42 Taking place
44 Is in store for
47 Pine product49 Maker of the
GreenSaverProduce Keeper
50 Potty-training
tool?
53 Absolut rival54 Explosive letters55 Collector’s __56 Reveals in an
unwelcome way
58 Naming60 Mouthpiece for a
Lilliputian horse?
64 Nursery supply65 Psyche
component
66 Hiding __67 No longer an
item
68 Oversaw69 Teamed (with)
DOWN
1 Jams2 Good remark?3 Plants with
sword-shapedleaves4 Lombardy’s
capital
5 Everyone in
Mississippi?
6 Big ring name7 AT&T, for short
8 Grinder
9 1969 hit with the
line “You are mycandy girl”
10 Botanist Gray11 Candy heart
words
12 Show one’s face13 Make amends for18 Outdo22 Volume
measure
24 Abbr. on some
cans
25 Hardly a happy
ending
27 Where the Santa
Maria sank,nowadays
28 Dined on,
biblically
30 Dash warning33 “I suggest you
move on”
35 Pie makeup?36 Stock
38 Plus39 Doesn’t exactly
help one’s
reputation
40 Stunning or
cunning
43 One under a tree,
maybe
44 Nissan sedan45 Start of a pitch46 Fifth-century
Roman Empireenemy
48 In a little while51 1996 A.L. Rookie
of the Year
52 Psi follower53 Needles57 Org. whose logo
features an eaglehead
59 6-Across maker61 Awfully long time62 Rocks in a bucket63 “Ideas worth
spreading”acronym
By Mark Bickham
(c)2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/16/1510/16/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, October 16, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 ConnectionsFlorida's men's and women's 
cross country teams head to Pre-Nationals and the South Florida Invitational this weekend. Read the story on pg. 15. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Bullard added to Chuck Bednarik Watch List
Senior defensive lineman Jon Bullard has been added to the 2015 Chuck 
Bednarik Award Watch List, the Maxwell Football Club announced on Thursday. The original list was comprised of players who were slected based on their performances during the 2014 season. We’re seven weeks into the 
college football season, and we here at the alliga-
torSports Brand Picks Col-
umn are ready for a road 
matchup between Florida and LSU. 
The Gators traveled to Columbia, 
Missouri, last week and handed the Tigers their second Southeastern Con-ference loss in three weeks. 
Florida’s defense dominated a 
young Missouri offense led by fresh-man quarterback Drew Lock, and the Gators will look to do the same against LSU sophomore Brandon Har-
ris. 
But Florida will arguably face its 
toughest test of the season: stopping 
Heisman Trophy frontrunner Leonard Fournette. 
Debating Saturday’s Ohio State vs. 
Penn State game are alligatorSports editor Graham Hall and the Alliga-
tor’s managing/online editor Jordan 
McPherson.
Ohio State (-19) will win 
because….
The Buckeyes always ﬁ  nd a way to 
pull out the win. Outside of a couple too-close-for-comfort wins against 
Northern Illinois and Indiana, Ohio 
State has shown why its the top team in the country. 
With Ezekiel Elliot in the backﬁ  eld, 
a stout defense led by  Raekwon Mc-Millan (62 tackles) and Tyquan Lewis (9 tackles for loss; 5.5 sacks), and Urban Meyer calling the shots, Ohio State should have no problem walk-
ing away with a big win and turning 
the Nittany Lions into the cowardly lions.
— Jordan McPherson 
Penn State (+19) will win 
because....
The Nittany Lions get to the quar-
terback, and they’ll need to bring the pressure if the team hopes to stop PICKS
SITE: Tiger Stadium (cap. 102,321)
KICKOFF: 7 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 16
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
A night game is the ideal 
atmosphere for college football. 
The lights are shining brightest 
and a primetime television game 
is what players dream of.
Florida has already played in 
ﬁ  ve such games already this sea-
son, with two being on the road.
But a night game in Tiger Sta-
dium — where Florida will play tomorrow at 7 — is a different at-mosphere.
While Kentucky and Missouri 
create their own atmospheres, Death Valley dwarfs those two stadiums.
With a capacity of 102,321, 
Tiger Stadium is the third largest stadium in the Southeastern Con-ference, and it’s the biggest sta-dium the Gators will play in this season.Coach Jim McElwain knows 
from experience how hostile it 
gets playing a game in Death Val-
ley.
When he was the offensive co-
ordinator at Alabama, McElwain took two trips to Baton Rouge, but it was the game in 2008 that stands out in his mind. 
Alabama would prevail over 
the Tigers 27-21 in overtime, and the atmosphere in and around Ti-ger Stadium brings up memories of McElwain’s childhood when he was growing up in Montana.  
“It reminded me of going in 
when you play in Montana. Peo-ple rock the bus. God, it’s great,” 
McElwain said. 
“It’s the way college football 
should be. Just the passion of 
the fans and the energy in the stands.”
Dealing with the nighttime 
hostility is what the No. 8 Gators (6-0, 4-0 SEC) will try to overcome against No. 6 LSU (5-0, 3-0 SEC). 
Not one player on Florida’s 
current roster has ever played in a night game at LSU. 
The last time the Gators played 
under the lights at Tiger Stadium was back in 2009 — a 13-3 win.
So, UF’s current players can 
only rely on hearsay from former players and coaches about what a night game in Baton Rouge is like.  
“I don’t know anything about 
it personally at night, but I hear a lot of stories about it,” junior line-backer Jarrad Davis said. 
“I’m looking forward to going 
there to play, I think it’s going to be a great opportunity.”
Senior defensive lineman Jon 
Bullard said that while the game 
will be on the road on Saturday, 
the feeling around the stadium will still have a positive impact.
“The atmosphere, it gives you 
that extra go,” Bullard said. 
“Even though it’s not at home, 
when you’ve got an atmosphere like that, you get jittery and juiced and it helps you out a little bit."
McElwain and the coaching staff have put the emphasis on creating chaos and getting the 
team prepared for road games. 
But this week has been differ-
ent since there has been chaos 
surrounding the program.
First it was quarterback Will 
Grier being suspended after test-ing positive for performance-en-hancing drugs.
And then on Wednesday, red-
shirt freshman cornerback De-iondre Porter was arrested and subsequently suspended indeﬁ  -nitely after police said he report-edly ﬁ  red a gun in the direction of his girlfriend.
However, while McElwain said 
that while no one on the team was prepared for those two situ-
ations-, it’s just one aspect of the 
chaos the team must prepare for. 
“Playing in Tiger Stadium in a 
night game, there’s a lot of it go-ing on,” McElwain said. 
“So, I think the important 
thing is eliminate the clutter, take care of yourself, do your job and let’s go focus and have a good 
time doing it.”UF heads to Death Valley to face LSU
Both teams are unbeaten Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
UF defensive lineman Jon Bullard goes for a tackle during Florida's 28-27 win against T ennessee on Sept. 26 at Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium. Bullard has a team-high 4.5 sacks this season. 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
THE TEAMS RACE AT 
PRE-NATIONALS AND 
THE USF INVITATIONAL. 
By Alejandro Lopez
Alligator Writer
@ajlb95
With another weekend dou-
bleheader rapidly approaching, 
Florida’s men’s and women’s cross country teams will once again be legging it out on two 
different fronts.
The scenes? Louisville, Ken-
tucky, and Tampa, Florida.
The races? NCAA Pre-Nation-
als and the University of South 
Florida Invitational.
The competition? Stacked.Florida’s A-teams will line 
up against quality competition when they take to the Louisville terrain. 
In addition to facing a com-
bined seven Southeastern Con-ference foes, both contingents are set to square off against a ﬁ  eld rife with ranked opponents.
For the men, Colorado and 
Oregon present the most daunt-
ing challenge — ranked at No. 
1 and No. 3, respectively, these two powerhouses highlight a bracket that boasts 11 USTF-CCCA-ranked teams. 
As for the women, eight com-
petitors crack the top-30, with Colorado (No. 2), Oregon (No. 4), Michigan (No. 5), George-
town (No. 7) and Stanford (No. 
9) occupying top-10 spots.
Opting for a mixture of ex-
perience and youth, coach Paul Spangler named nine runners to 
the men’s top squad. 
Leading the way, redshirt se-
niors Eddie Garcia, Jimmy Clark 
and Charles Chambers hope to set the pace for a group that contains three true freshmen. 
As for the women, their top 
six will race without redshirt sophomore Becky Greene and 
junior Taylor Tubbs. 
The pair of runners are both 
scratched this weekend due to 
illness or injury.
Making only their second 
appearance at the event since 2000, UF’s B-teams ﬁ  gure to turn in a strong showing at the USF Invitational, as they hope to 
build off of a solid performance 
at Oct. 2’s Florida State Invita-tional. 
History bodes well here for 
the Gators — the men’s con-tingent took ﬁ  rst place at the team’s last appearance in 2011, with the women placing three runners in the top-15 and clos-
ing the day in fourth.
With nothing else separating 
the team between this week-
end’s slate and SEC Champion-ships on Oct. 30, the time has come for the runners to gain some momentum heading into championship season. 
Kicking off today, the women 
will compete in the USF Invita-tional 6k at 5:00 p.m., with the men lacing up for a 5:40 p.m. 8k. 
Pre-Nationals begin Saturday 
— the men race at 9:30 a.m., while the women are scheduled for a 10:15 a.m. start. UF cross country to 
face stiﬀ   competitionBy Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
As last season dragged to a close, and as 
Florida lost eight of their last 12 games, one 
thing was abundantly clear.
The Gators had a shooting problem.UF shot just 32.3 percent from three-point 
range, 256th worst in the nation.
With the additions of a few key freshmen 
and the development of returning players, UF will look to solve that this year.
But even redshirt freshman Brandone Fran-
cis-Ramirez, who hopes to take over departed guard Michael Frazier’s role as the team’s high-volume three-point shooter, wasn’t always the praised perimeter player he’s been in Florida’s 
ﬁ  rst two weeks of practice.
“I couldn’t really shoot growing up,” Fran-
cis-Ramirez said.
As a pre-teen, when he used to walk into 
his nearest gym and join an ongoing pickup 
game, he didn’t draw much attention.
“Just leave him wide open,” players said.That changed when Francis-Ramirez en-
rolled in Arlington Country Day in Jackson-
ville. There, while helping his school to a state 
championship and a 30-5 record, he corrected his shooting woes.
The coaches taught him to center his feet, 
open his hips and straighten his elbow. His work culminated in the ﬁ  nal game of his high school career, when he hit the game-winning shot to secure the championship.
This season, if Florida hopes to surpass 
last year’s 16-17 record, it will need some of its younger players to develop into accurate shooters.
“We’ve got to hit a high percentage from 
the three point line. It’s gotta go up, and it’s gotta go up across the board,” coach Mike White said. “In the next couple of months, we’ve got to 
ﬁ  gure out who our best shooters are in games, 
because it’s a little bit different than in prac-
tice.”
Along with Francis-Ramirez, coaches have 
been impressed with Devin Robinson’s im-provement from behind the arc. 
The sophomore is learning to become more 
of a spot-up shooter, setting his feet and pre-paring to launch the ball as soon as it reaches him.
“I’ve been practicing it all summer and just 
to see the ball go in, just makes me feel more conﬁ  dent,” Robinson said.
Freshman guard KeVaughn Allen has also 
stood out. Players and coaches have raved about his athleticism and ability to score since Florida began its summer workouts.
“He’s such an offensive weapon,” White 
said of Allen. “He’s probably as pure of a natu-
ral scorer as we have on our team.”
White has focused on perfecting UF’s de-
fense before approaching anything that resem-
bles an offensive scheme. 
The past two weeks of practices have fea-
tured fast-paced, defensive-minded scrim-mages where the Gators have been learning White’s pressing style, a slightly different ver-sion of the one used under former coach Billy 
Donovan.
“I didn’t expect it to be this high-paced, this 
much running and going from drill to drill to 
drill,” Robinson said of White’s practices, “but it’s helping us process things much faster.”Gators men’s basketball working to improve shooting woes
MIND OF MAMINAKIS
Losing a legendary head coach may be cause for concern. Fac-ing a regular season with eight players on the roster who have yet to play in a game for the 
Gators adds to that concern. 
And trying to point the program 
back in the right direction follow-
ing a disappointing 16-17 season, 
with a new coaching staff? Well, 
that’s the icing on the cake.
But Florida and its fans should 
be excited. The Gators are exactly 
where they want to be — under the radar. 
Quietly, Florida has put the piec-
es in place to have a very impres-sive ﬁ  rst year under new head coach Mike White. 
The Gators will turn some heads 
this season and have a strong bounce-back year. They have the players and the talent to do it. Twen-ty-ﬁ  ve plus wins is not out of the question, nor is a jump back to the top of the Southeastern Conference. White’s ﬁ  rst year at Florida will be one to remember. 
Kasey Hill, Chris Chiozza, Dorian 
Finney-Smith, Devin Robinson and John Egbunu seem like a possible starting ﬁ  ve for Florida’s season opener against Navy in Annapolis, Maryland, on Nov. 13. 
Of all the new faces on the Gators 
roster this season, Egbunu, a redshirt sophomore who transferred from 
USF, will have the most immediate 
impact.
At 6-foot-11, he is a massive force 
in the paint on both sides of the ﬂ  oor, something Florida has missed since Patric Young’s departure. 
In his freshman year at USF in 
2013-14, Egbunu grabbed a program freshman record 198 rebounds to go 
along with 43 blocks. For the Gators to re-establish a 
strong post presence, Egbunu has to 
live up to the praise he has already received from his teammates and coaches. 
He’ll need to dominate the boards 
at both ends and take advantage of scoring opportunities in the post. Egbunu’s athleticism at his size will surprise fans and opponents, making him Florida’s most efﬁ  cient big man in quite some time. 
As for the backcourt, Hill is the 
most experienced of the guards. He needs to embrace a leadership role 
and cement his minutes on the team, 
primarily by improving his offensive efﬁ  ciency. He shot just 37.9 percent from the ﬁ  eld last season and 52.6 percent from the free throw line while turning the ball over 72 times. 
For Florida to be successful in 
White’s fast-paced, up-tempo of-fense, Hill needs to be a scoring 
threat and be smarter with the bas-
ketball in his hands. 
If he can improve in those two 
areas, the Gators’ offense will get the boost it needs from its starting guards. 
If it’s a repeat season for Hill, 
there are two young guards waiting in the wings who have shown plenty 
of promise, and who would be more 
than happy to slide into that starting role.Redshirt freshman Brandone 
Francis-Ramirez has, according to White, been the team’s best shooter in the ﬁ  rst week of practice. Fresh-man KeVaughn Allen comes in as 
the top-rated prospect in the state of 
Arkansas, averaging 25.2 points as a high school senior. 
With that newfound ﬁ  repower 
coming off the bench, assuming Hill’s shooting woes are behind him, this will be a scoring backcourt that defenses won’t want to face.
Down low to accompany Finney-
Smith, Florida brought in junior for-ward Justin Leon, a junior college transfer who was committed to Mike White at Louisiana Tech. 
Leon, standing at 6-foot-8, brings 
a high motor and viable scoring threat to the frontcourt – he was a 2015 junior college All-American at Shawnee (Ill.), averaging 21.5 points 
and 10 rebounds per game and 
shooting 50.4 percent from the ﬁ  eld. 
If he picks up right where he left 
off, it wouldn’t be a shock to see Leon in the starting rotation at either of the forward positions. 
Considering a fairly light non-
conference schedule this year, be-sides back-to-back games against 
Michigan State and Oklahoma State 
in December, and the typical run through the SEC, the Gators could very well have 25-plus wins by the end of the regular season — no small feat.
With the addition of many new 
faces, the Gators won’t have another disappointing season just because 
Billy Donovan is gone. 
There is no “re-building” phase 
that has to take place here. Mike 
White and his staff already have a strong roster in place for what will be a year of immediate success.  
Predicting Mike White’s ﬁ  rst season at FloridaAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Devin Robinson dunks during Florida’s 62-61 loss to Ole Miss on Feb. 12 in the 
O’Connell Center. Robinson spent the offseason working on his shooting. 
Alex
Maminakis
twitter: @alexmaminakisOhio State’s lethal quarterback ro-
tation. 
But the key to the game will be 
limiting Ezekiel Elliot, the Buck-eyes’ go-to man in the trenches. 
If Penn State can limit OSU’s 
offense and get consistent produc-
tion out of quarterback Christian 
Hackenberg, the team has a more-than-solid chance to upsetting the top-ranked Buckeyes. 
This game will be closer than 
the spread. 
 — Graham Hall
Now onto the picks!
In ﬁ  rst place with a 27-20-1 re-
cord is the Orlando Sentinel’s Ed-
gar “Slide in your DM’s” Thomp-
son, who can’t seem to ﬁ  gure out 
how to send his provocative Twit-ter messages privately. 
Come on Edgar, if you want 
to harass young women on social media at least make sure none of us has to read about it. 
Which ﬁ  ve-star recruit did you 
miss out on with your weird mes-
sages? 
We have a tie for second place 
with both sporting 26-21-1 re-cords. 
In second place with a 26-21-
1 record is Jordan “Sober in New Orleans” McPherson, who will be 
a baby-faced 20-year-old walking around New Orleans tonight car-rying a Juicy Juice and a pack of 
Gushers. 
Thanks for chaperoning us, 
Jordan. Us adults were worried we would have to take a cab back 
to the hotel. Tied with Jordan is the Palm 
Beach Post’s Anthony “I ignore my wife” Chiang, who requested 
Luis turn his Palm Beach Post sto-
ry in by 8 p.m. so Anthony could take his oft-ignored wife to dinner. 
Come on, Anthony, make more 
time for her. Or did growing up 
in unincorporated Dade County 
destroy your ability to be compas-sionate? 
In fourth place with a 24-23-
1 record is Gator Country’s Nick “Ice in his veins” de la Torre, whose incredibly popular picture of Will Grier with the aforemen-
tioned caption has received un-wanted attention following Grier’s 
suspension. 
This shouldn’t be out of the 
ordinary for you, Nick. We know you've had a little more than just ice in your veins as well. 
In ﬁ  fth with a 23-24-1 record 
we have alligatorSports editor Graham “Grandma’s couch” Hall, who decided to wear a ﬂ  oral frat boy shirt to Wednesday’s media 
session, which coach Jim McEl-
wain said looked liked his grand-mother’s couch. 
Hey Graham, you’re no longer 
active in your fraternity so how 
about you stop dressing like a frat boy, you fraud.  
In a tie with Hall for ﬁ  fth place 
we have alligatorSports assistant 
editor Luis “My writing sucks” Torres, who, after every article he writes, proceeds to tear it apart and label it trash. 
Come on, Luis, be more con-
ﬁ  dent. We know your writing sucks, but you need to live in the illusion that you’re talented so 
your writing remains bearable.  
In seventh place with a record 
of 20-27-1 record is 247Sports’ 
Thomas “Sorority Girl” Goldkamp, 
who, during Monday’s breaking news, said he fully understands 
the meaning of a sorority girl be-cause “I really can’t actually even 
today.”
Hey Thomas, we know you 
can’t do much. Just stick to let-
ting the Gatorbait message board know who’s injured. 
And now, making his return 
to being in dead-ass-last with a piss poor record of 18-29-1 is al-
ligatorSports’ staff writer Graham 
“Baby” Hack, who is 21 years old and still lives with his parents. 
Come on, Graham, it’s time to 
leave the nest and stop drinking 
out of a sippy cup. 16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2015
  HALL  LT  HACK  JM
UF vs LSU (-9.5)  UF  UF  UF  UF
AU (-2.5) vs UK  AU  AU  UK  UKOkla (-4.5) vs KSt  KST  OKLA  OKLA  OKLAUSC vs ND (-7)  ND  ND  ND  NDMSU vs Mich (-8.5)  MSU  MICH  MSU  MICHBama (-4) vs TAMU  TAMU  BAMA  BAMA  TAMUUL vs FSU (-7)  UL  FSU  FSU  FSUIowa (-2.5) vs NW  NW  IOWA  NW  IOWA
  ET  AC  ND  TG
UF vs LSU (-9.5)  LSU  UF  UF  UF
AU (-2.5) vs UK  UK  UK  UK  AU
Okla (-4.5) vs KSt  KST  OKLA  OKLA                   KST
USC vs ND (-7)  ND  ND  ND  ND
MSU vs Mich (-8.5)  MSU  MSU  MICH  MICHBama (-4) vs TAMU  TAMU  TAMU  BAMA  BAMAUL vs FSU (-7)  UL  FSU  FSU  FSUIowa (-2.5) vs NW  NW  NW  NW  NWPICKS,  from pg14