We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 139 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
In an effort to produce zero 
waste, UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainabili-
ty and Physical Plant Division are working together to recycle paper towels from bathrooms around campus into compost.
Compost is a natural form of 
recycling where paper, vegetable scraps and other organic mate-rial are decomposed and used as  natural plant fertilizers.  
This is the second pilot pro-
gram created to study the type of waste put into bathroom trash bins, said Liz Storn, program coordinator for the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability. The ﬁ  rst pilot pro-gram was launched on March 16 and 19, Storn said, but it was unannounced to test the garbage 
produced from Library West, 
Matherly Hall and the Emerging 
Pathogens Institute.
Coffee cups, plastic wraps and 
other trash were found in Library West’s bathroom trash bins, Storn said. She said the library has a lot of student trafﬁ  c, so it’s expected for the trash to contain those materials.
The Emerging Pathogens Insti-
tute had only paper towels in the bathroom trash bins, and Mather-ly had a mix of paper towels and plastic bottles.By Alex Harris
Alligator Staff Writer
aharris@alligator.org
Joy Drawdy has an emergency arrest plan.
If the police come, she’ll call her lawyer. 
She’ll send her friend to care for her store. She’ll have her partner care for her cats, dogs and chickens.
But she hasn’t had to use it — yet.Drawdy, 45, and her partner, Kat, own 
Earth Pets, a Gainesville pet store that not only sells soy dog collars and organic pet treats, but it also shelters homeless kittens in a commu-nity kitten therapy room.
But the emergency arrest plan is for a prod-
uct she sells, called CannaVet, formerly known as Canna Companion during the summer.
CannaVet is an herbal supplement for pets 
with problems like anxiety, seizures and aller-gies. The problem lies in its main ingredient: hemp.
Hemp is from the cannabis plant, a varia-
tion of which is the marijuana smoked recre-
ationally, medically and illegally nationwide. 
Hemp is used for industrial purposes like rope; it doesn’t get users high.
Hemp sale, not production, is federally le-
gal. But after a 1979 law passed in Florida, it’s illegal within state lines. However, products 
like hemp milk, seeds and bracelets are still 
seen on shelves statewide. Some critics call this selective enforcement.
But getting law enforcement to respond to that criticism, or comment on this story, has been impossible: 
•  Gainesville Police and the Gainesville-
Alachua County Drug Task Force declined to comment. 
•  Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell, 
who also serves as vice president for the Flor-ida Sheriffs Association, declined to comment. •  Bill Cervone, the state attorney for the 
eighth judicial circuit — which covers six coun-ties including Alachua — declined to comment on behalf of his ofﬁ  ce.
•  The Florida Sheriffs Association did not 
respond to multiple requests for comment.
Drawdy doesn’t consider herself a marijua-
na activist. Instead, she describes herself as a pet activist.
She ﬁ  rst discovered CannaVet after search-
ing online for a solution for her dog’s seizures following the severe side effects, like liver dam-age, of a medication her dog’s veterinarian pre-
scribed.
Iggy, a staghound Afghan mix, would shake 
and panic up to 10 times a day.
But since Iggy’s been on the CannaVet sup-
plements, her seizures dwindled and eventu-
ally went away.
“There are literally zero side effects,” 
Drawdy said. “My dog’s not drugged up. She’s not high. She doesn’t feel weird. I just loved 
it.”
The trouble began when she made a Face-
book post announcing the new product, which 
she touted as “100% legal” cannabis for pets.
She was at the beach with her dogs and 
family when reporters started calling.
Worried, she called GPD. Ofﬁ  cers told her 
they saw her Facebook post and were consid-ering sending an undercover ofﬁ  cer to buy the 
product and test it for THC, which stands for 
tetrahydrocannabinol, the active ingredient that gives users a euphoric “high.”
Any amount of THC classiﬁ  es a product as 
marijuana and can make the owner vulnerable 
Softball senior Lauren Haeger 
chasing records in ﬁ  nal season
She’s tied for the SEC record in home runs, pg 
13
Senate approves resolution for Middle East-
ern studies minor
115 students signed petition for minor, pg 5.
UF researchers to be inducted into Hall of Fame
It’s for Florida inventors, pg 5.Budd wins At-Large, Goston upsets Hinson-Rawls in District 1
Read the results of the Gainesville City 
Commission election, pg 3.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Kat Drawdy, 44, holds up a pack of Canna Companion, now known as CannaVet, a hemp-
based supplement for pets. Drawdy and her partner, Joy, own the pet store Earth Pets. 
Pet cannabis raises questions about hemp in Fla
Emily Cochrane 
and Alyssa Fisher
Alligator Staff Writers
ecochrane@alligator.org
aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
To Yuri Blaise, experience is everything. 
When it comes to pursuing his dream of working in 
data analytics, the Innovation Academy student recog-nizes that hands-on work is necessary. So when a sum-mer internship opportunity with Proctor & Gamble came 
around, Blaise, a UF industrial systems junior, couldn’t 
say no.
Innovation Academy has grown to include local in-
ternship options and worked to accommodate student schedules, but some of its students, like Blaise, are ﬁ  nd-ing difﬁ  culty ﬁ  tting outside internships and pre-profes-sional courses into the Spring-Summer schedule.
Ultimately, accepting the internship came with a price for Blaise: His graduation date is now in 2017 — a year later than it was originally. The 21-year-old said this has 
been his biggest issue with the academy.
“To build your professional career, you have to sacri-
ﬁ  ce your graduation, which I don’t think is fair,” he said. 
“I don’t think it’s good, career-wise, for students.”
Blaise said it’s discouraging when he’s told to pursue 
Fall internships when most internship programs cater to the traditional Summer Break. In fact, last week, he had to turn down an internship with Tallahassee-based man-agement consulting ﬁ  rm Accenture because the intern-
ship was only for summer. 
“Companies will be so interested in you, and the sec-
ond you say ‘fall,’ it’s like they found out you had an STD 
or something,” he said. “It gets frustrating to constantly turn down opportunities because you’re on a very rigid scheduling structure in a program that claims it’s for stu-dents.”
However, IA does have infrastructure to help students 
get internships at the local level and elements some stu-
dents feel made them more competitive in the applicant 
pool. Inside Innovation Academy: how IA 
aﬀ  ects pre-professional opportunities
SEE SUSTAINABILITY,  PAGE 4 SEE IA, PAGE 4SEE HEMP,  PAGE 8
Part 3 of 5Illegal hemp: mistake or ‘selective enforcement’?
CAMPUS
UF composting more
“The goal is to roll this 
out into buildings in (the) 
Summer or Fall term.”
Liz Storn
program coordinator Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 139
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
emichelle@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  86° LOW  66°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Humanists on Campus
Humanists on Campus will be 
having its sixth general body 
meeting today in Matherly, 
Room 0011 at 7:20 p.m. Humanists on Campus is a sec-ular organization that aims to 
foster an environment in which 
students can explore the ideals of humanism through discus-sion, community service and networking.
Songwriters in the Round
Take a journey into Alachua County’s rich history with a 
presentation by three mem-
bers of Little Jake and the Soul Searchers at the Matheson History Museum on Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. Little Jake 
Mitchell performed at the 
Apollo Theater and toured with James Brown. B.B. King encouraged him to stay in 
show business. For more than 
35 years, Charlie Steadham booked thousands of shows featuring a diverse array of artists. Tran Whitley was one 
of the first local musicians to 
join the modern trend of mu-sic files reinforcing live perfor-mances. They will discuss the 
invention and reinvention of 
the Gainesville music scene. For more information, call 352-378-2280 or email info@mathesonmuseum.org.
Circus cats
The Amazing Acro-Cats are a troupe of real, rescued house 
cats that “purrform” acro-
batic feats of agility: They roll on balls, balance on beams, ride skateboards and more. The grand finale is the only 
all-cat band known to ex-
ist — Tuna and the Rock Cats. “Purrforming” at the Hippodrome State Theatre from 
Thursday through Sunday. 
More information on the act can be found at circuscats.com.
GatorNights
Treat Yo Self during the last GatorNights of Spring 2015 on Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Reitz Union. Get your junk 
food cravings satisfied with free 
cupcakes, sno cones, Chik-fil-A and Midnight Munchies Pizza. Check out two showings of “The Wedding Ringer” at 8 and 
10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium with free popcorn 
and soda. Have one last night of fun with your friends for the semester by making friendship 
bracelets and posing with Al 
and Alberta for a selfie. You won’t want to miss the dynam-ic Pride Drag Show in the Reitz 
Union Grand Ballroom. It’s al-
ways Friday, always free, with your Gator 1 Card.
Earth Day Celebration
Participate in the Florida Museum of Natural History’s Earth Day exploration event Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
featuring outdoor activities in 
the adjacent UF Natural Area Teaching Laboratory and di-verse specimens from the mu-seum’s vast collections. Enjoy 
the three-day plant sale begin-
ning Friday, which is one of the museum’s largest plant sales of the year with more than 150 
species available. Learn about 
butterfly gardening, conserva-tion and more. Food from High Springs Orchard and Bakery and The Hyppo Gourmet Ice 
Pops will be available for pur-
chase. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/earthday or call 352-846-2000.
Graduation Photos in the 
Butterfly RainforestCongratulations, graduates! As you emerge from college, take 
your graduation photos amid 
the beautiful backdrop of the Florida Museum of Natural History’s Butterfly Rainforest, a 
can’t-miss living exhibit featur-
ing hundreds of free-flying but-terflies and birds from around the world. UF students receive free admission with a valid 
Gator 1 Card. For more infor-
mation, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/butterflies.
GSCW is recruiting executive 
board membersThe mission of Gators for Sickle Cell Warriors (GSCW) is to help the public become 
more aware of the impacts of 
sickle cell disease and to push those affected to achieve more than they thought possible. 
Through social events, out-
reach and peer advising, we strive to create an educational yet welcoming and fun envi-ronment for all. You do not 
need to be affected by sickle 
cell disease to join GSCW, but if you are or have been, this is an opportunity to support oth-ers, find a support system and stir a change in the Gainesville 
community. See the Facebook 
page for a link to the applica-tion. Questions? Contact us at scwarriorsuf@gmail.com.
Butterfly Gardening
Visit the “Butterfly Rainforest” exhibit at the Florida Museum of Natural History through May 14 to learn how to attract 
different species and which 
plants are proven winners as part of the theme “Butterfly Gardening.” Daily butterfly re-leases are held at 2 p.m. with 
additional weekend releases at 
3 and 4 p.m., weather permit-ting. UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card receive free ad-
mission year-round.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
An editorial published Monday, under the headline “Rubio the strongest candidate the GOP 
has in the race,” incorrectly 
stated Marco Rubio was a member of Blue Key while en-rolled at UF. He is only a recent 
honorary Blue Key member.
A story that ran Tuesday under 
the headline "Police: 3 arrested on drug charges, connected to meth" included an incorrect mugshot for Heath Williams due to a production error. The mugshot that was included was for William Kirby Snead, who was in another story.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Be a part of something big 
and give blood today. For more information, call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Commissioner-elect Charles Goston celebrates his victory over 
Yvonne Hinson-Rawls in the District 1 commissioner seat election in Piesanos Stone Fired Pizza on University Avenue on Tuesday night. 
ELECTIONS
Alligator Staff Report
Harvey M. Budd and Charles Ed-
ward Goston Sr. emerged victorious 
in the City Commission runoff elec-tion Tuesday night.
For the At-Large seat, 8,771 vot-
ers cast their ballots. Budd ran against Jay Curtis and received 4,470 votes — 50.96 percent — while Cur-tis received 4,301 votes, according to the Supervisor of Elections website.
Goston defeated Yvonne Hinson-
Rawls for her seat, receiving 913 votes, or 51.96 percent, while Hin-son-Rawls received 844.
Voter turnout dropped slightly 
from the March election, from 12.5 percent of Gainesville’s 74,884 regis-tered voters to 11.84 percent.
Budd suspected voter turnout 
would be low, so at around 3:30 p.m. he paid for 3,000 automated phone calls to frequent voters.
That move paid off.
Surrounded by friends and sup-
porters, Budd thanked his campaign 
manager, Connie Amidei, and his wife, Ilene Silverman.
“What a woman,” Budd said, 
embracing his wife. “I couldn’t have done it without her.”
Budd said his ﬁ  rst order of busi-
ness will be to look at the Gainesville Renewable Energy Center contract.
He is also in favor of forming a 
Gainesville Regional Utilities advi-sory board.
Goston had already won the race 
by the time he strolled into Piesanos. 
The restaurant erupted in cheers.
“District 1 is not going to look the 
same in three years,” Goston said.
He promised to represent District 
1 residents and work toward improv-
ing the area by lowering GRU rates and improving the economy.
“They said that I didn’t have a 
snowball chance in hell of being 
here,” he said, “but I’m here to tell 
you snowballs exist in hell.”
Curtis woke up today knowing it 
would come down to 100 votes.
Though his campaign failed, it 
wasn’t due to a lack of effort.
Curtis said his supporters made 
about 60,000 phone calls and knocked on about 8,000 doors to 
drum up support. He knocked on 
about 2,000 doors himself and lost 10 pounds in the process.
Commissioner Craig Carter was there to support Curtis.
“If he ran against me I will prob-
ably support him. He’s that great of a guy,” Carter said.
In the University City Elks Lodge 
#1218, about 14 supporters gathered to hear the runoff election results with Yvonne Hinson-Rawls.
The phrase “69 votes” was whis-
pered throughout the room — it was the number that separated her from a win.
There was no outburst, positive 
or negative.
“I’m sorry about the outcome, 
but I’m glad it’s over,” Hinson-Rawls said.
Hinson-Rawls said she was glad 
to have impacted the people who inﬂ  uenced her while growing up in Gainesville.
“I’ve literally given my life to the 
city,” she said.
Upbeat music played as her sup-
porters started to gather around a ta-ble of shrimp, ribs, cheese and fruit.
“Let’s eat,” she said.
Alligator staff writers Cyanne 
Dunn, Hannah Morse, Carla Vian-
na and Hunter Williamson contrib-
uted to this report.Budd wins At-Large, Goston upsets 
Hinson-Rawls for District 1 in runoﬀ  4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015UF marketing junior David Nas-
sau earned an internship through 
the Innovation Academy Local In-ternship Experience. During the pro-gram, IA students work on projects 
with Gainesville companies for class 
credit during the Fall semester. 
Nassau, 20, applied to the op-
tional program for Fall 2013 and was matched with the Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention. With four internship credits and an online busi-ness class, he was living on campus as an enrolled student. 
“It’s just like (traditional) sum-
mer at that point,” he said. 
For Hammaad Saber, IA’s inno-
vation minor was the conversation point he needed to make a connec-tion with a representative from Dis-ney. 
As an industrial and systems en-
gineering freshman, he walked into 
UF’s Career Showcase and men-
tioned the minor. Intrigued, the rep-resentative encouraged him to apply for the Disney College Program.
Now a junior, Saber has not only 
participated in that program, but also took a data-based professional internship at the theme park. He hopes to return in the upcoming Fall 
and eventually work for Disney.
“When I think about it, it really 
started with that one conversation I 
had with him (the recruiter) because of Innovation Academy,” Saber, 21, said.
IA Director Jeff Citty said he feels 
the minor will serve as the foot in the door students need to make them-
selves stand out in interviews and 
on applications.
“The local community, the busi-
ness community, the parents, the employers we talk to — when they learn about the skills we’re teaching students for the Innovation minor, they get very excited and want to start to procure our students upon 
graduation,” Citty said.Citty pointed to two local start-
ups — Fracture, a company that 
prints photos on glass, and Groove-shark, a music-streaming service — as businesses who have expressed 
interest in IA students.
Herb Jones, Fracture’s chief mar-
keting officer, said he thinks the 
program allows students to be well-equipped for entrepreneurship. Frac-ture took on a few IA interns in the customer experience department for a pilot internship program more than a year ago that is no longer available.
He said he didn’t know if the in-
novation minor would be an applica-tion asset because the company pri-oritizes writing and marketing skills.
While Fracture offers only sum-
mer internships for now, Jones said the company is willing to work with students’ academic schedules — even those of IA students.
“School is first,” he said. “But my 
goal is to get Gators hired.”
Todd Chase, the chief people of-
ficer at Grooveshark, said he felt IA was producing a high caliber of stu-dents, some of whom have interned at the company. 
“There’s no question that a stu-
dent who experiences the kind of 
curriculum developed in the Innova-
tion Academy will be better prepared to work in an entrepreneurial com-pany, younger companies, even a traditional company,” he said.
Chase said over the last decade, 
he’s seen more students apply for fall internships. While the pool of Grooveshark summer internship ap-
plicants is still larger, the number of 
available positions is proportionate, so it doesn’t make much of a differ-ence.
“I don’t think one is fundamen-
tally better than the other,” Chase said. “It depends ultimately on the individual and the company they’re at.”
As far as graduate and profession-
al school applications go, it remains to be seen if the program has an im-pact. Most students in the 3-year-old academy have not made it to that point yet. 
While Stela Patidar, 20, has en-
joyed the leadership opportunities in 
IA, she’s worried about making time 
to take the MCAT and apply to medi-cal school with the Spring-Summer schedule. The psychology sopho-more wanted to take organic chemis-try in the Fall, but because it’s not of-fered online, she might have to wait until Spring because IA students can only take online classes in the Fall.
“I don’t want to wait,” she said. 
“I want to get it out of the way.”
Although she’s exploring the op-
tion of taking classes at Santa Fe Col-lege, she’s concerned she’ll miss out on what she feels would be a more challenging, yet rewarding, class at UF. 
Joseph Spillane, the associate 
dean for student affairs in the Col-lege of Liberal Arts and Sciences and director of its Academic Advising Center — which handles pre-health and pre-law students — said the 32 IA majors are set up so students on the Spring-Summer schedule can take all the courses they need and still graduate on time. Spillane said 
the college has tried to ensure that all 
required pre-professional curriculum would be available to students dur-ing Spring and Summer.
“The good news is that when 
students have had real issues where they needed to take a Fall course,” he said, “we’ve been able to make some exceptions and allow students 
on occasion to take residential class-
es in the Fall to stay on track.”
Otherwise, he said, IA students 
should be able to graduate and apply to professional schools on time.
Spillane acknowledged it can be a 
challenging path to take on the pre-professional track as an IA student. But he thinks it can also be a re-
warding path because the program’s 
focus on innovation will make stu-dents more competitive applicants. “I think what you’re going to get 
is applicants to professional schools that are going to be competitive and successful,” he said, “because they’re going to be able to distin-guish themselves and their under-graduate experiences from a lot of other applicants.”
By Veronica Garcia
Alligator Contributing Writer
The first African-American to 
graduate with a bachelor’s degree from UF put down symbolic roots at the university, and now UF is plant-ing a tree in his honor.
The UF Levin College of Law 
and community will honor Judge Stephan P. Mickle, a 1965 alumnus, with a tree dedication ceremony at 4 p.m. Thursday on the UF Law West Courtyard.
George Dawson, interim dean 
and professor of the law school, said the dedication is based on Mickle’s achievements and contribution to the university. Mickle used to teach the trial advocacy course at the law school, which is still offered today.
“This is a formal recognition of his status; more importantly he is the first African-American male to graduate from UF, so it has been 50 years since then,” Dawson said. “There will be a plaque that will be 
placed by the tree in the ceremony to 
recognize him.” 
Mickle was the second African-
American to graduate from the law school, but his career is filled with firsts.
He was the first African-Amer-
ican federal judge from the U.S. District Court for the Northern Dis-
trict of Florida, serving from 1999 to 2011; and the first African-American 
to establish a private law practice in Gainesville.
He was the first African-American 
county judge of Alachua County; the first African-American circuit court judge of the Eighth Judicial Circuit; and first African-American eighth circuit court judge to be appointed to Florida’s First District Court of Ap-peal, according to a UF Law news 
release.
Brian Lawrence, a second-year 
law student at UF and a member of 
the Black Law Students Association, said he hopes for a great turnout.
“We had the privilege of listen-
ing to Judge Mickle speak at BLSA’s end of the year banquet,” Lawrence, 24, said. “He’s been such a pio-
neer throughout his career and I’m 
thrilled his accomplishments are be-ing honored.”
UF Law dedicates tree in honor of first black UF graduate
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Stela Patidar, a 20-year-old UF psychology sophomore enrolled in the 
Innovation Academy, poses for a photo in Turlington Hall against a pro-jection of her Canvas dashboard. As a student on the pre-med track, Patidar is concerned about keeping up with her classes and studying for the MCAT while on the Spring-Summer calendar.
IA,  from pg 1Innovation minor has helped some students in securing internshipsStorn said an option for Library West is 
to have two separate containers: One for 
paper towels, and one for other trash.
The three buildings produce five tons of 
trash a year and UF produces about 8,000 
tons of trash a year, she said.
The second pilot program was launched to see if signs made a difference using the 
same three buildings. 
Signs in the bathroom read “UF is Com-
posting Paper Towels!” and asked students 
and faculty to throw only paper towels in the trash.
“The goal is to roll this out into build-
ings in (the) Summer or Fall term,” Storn 
said.
Waste Corporation of America trans-ports all the organic waste from UF where 
it is composted by Watson C&D. 
WCA also collects compost from the Re-
itz Union, Gator Corner Dining Center and 
Broward Dining Center.
WCA is the official sustainability part-
ner for UF, said Taylor Cremo, WCA ac-count executive and sustainability coordi-
nator.
Cremo said compost is a natural source of recycling.
“It’s all mixed in with everything else,” 
she said.
Storn said the Office of Sustainability 
and physical plant will sift through the 
trash on Friday afternoon to study its con-
tents and work toward making UF more 
sustainable.
Check out the Alligator’s story about 
UF’s zero waste progress at bit.ly/1ym2ixM.SUSTAINABILITY,  from pg 1Goal to expand to all campus bathrooms this Summer or FallHe was also 2nd law grad
“There will be a plaque that 
will be placed by the tree in the 
ceremony to recognize him.” 
George Dawson
interim dean WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Protesting Power
Gabrielle Derogene, a Florida State University criminal justice studies senior, 
speaks on Tuesday on the Plaza of the Americas. “There’s no excuse to kill an unarmed victim, ” said Derogene, who traveled from T allahassee to participate in a protest against mass incarceration and police brutality.
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
UF Student Senate showed 
support for the creation of a new 
Middle Eastern studies minor at a 
meeting Tuesday night.
During public debate, Adam 
Samei, the author of the resolu-
tion, said the minor is an impor-tant piece in creating diversity at UF and adding to UF’s Preemi-
nence program.
He said students 
in the Iranian Stu-
dents Association 
and Arab Students’ 
Association have met with faculty to discuss starting the program. He said more than 115 students signed a petition to add the mi-nor.
“I argue that it is 
essential that more UF students are giv-en more opportuni-
ties and resources to 
study and intellectu-ally explore this area 
of the world, its people, politics, culture and history,” Samei said.The minor would not have a 
language requirement and would 
not require hiring new faculty.
Currently, Florida State Uni-
versity offers the minor and 
Florida International University 
offers it as a certiﬁ  cate. UF offers 
a minor in Arabic Language and Literature and a major in Middle Eastern Languages and Cultures under interdisciplinary studies in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences.
Sen. Nardin Derias, Access, 
spoke in favor of the resolution.
“I think, as a student who orig-
inally hails from the Middle East, 
that this minor is long overdue,” 
she said.
The resolution was unani-
mously approved. Senate approves resolution for Middle Eastern studies minorTHEY WILL BE INDUCTED IN 
OCTOBER.
By Aaron Zeiler
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two UF researchers will join Henry Ford 
and Thomas Edison in the Florida Inventors Hall of Fame for their research on feline HIV 
and termite control.
Janet Yamamoto, a professor of immunol-
ogy in UF’s College of Veterinary Medicine, 
and Nan-Yao Su, a professor of entomology at 
UF’s Fort Lauderdale Research and Education 
Center, will be recognized at an induction cer-emony in October.  
The organization has now recognized four 
Gators. Robert Grubbs, a UF alumnus, is also 
being inducted this year and is joining Robert 
Cade, the inventor of Gatorade, according to the Florida Inventors Hall of Fame.
Yamamoto, a UF researcher for about 21 
years, is the ﬁ  rst woman to be inducted.
While researching human immunodeﬁ  cien-
cy virus (HIV) in humans, Yamamoto found feline immunodeﬁ  ciency virus (FIV), HIV’s equivalent in cats. She said the FIV leads to 
AIDS in cats, and its symptoms are similar to 
those seen in humans and monkeys.
Yamamoto released an FIV vaccine in 
2002, and it is used worldwide to treat do-
mestic cats. Her research has also earned her 
a place in the National Academy of Inventors.
“I said, ‘I’ve got to do more,’” Yamamoto 
said. “The award is nice, but our laboratory’s main outlook would be to develop an HIV vac-cine.”
Su, who has been working at UF for about 
30 years, said he was surprised by his induc-
tion and felt like a small ﬁ  sh in a big pond 
compared to Cade, his hero.
Su is being recognized for his research that 
led to the development of Sentricon, a product 
that can kill a colony of termites.
Inspired by the time he spent studying as a 
doctoral student at the University of Hawaii, 
Su created Sentricon as an alternative to tradi-tional pesticide. 
The treatment is a long-lasting bait that 
prevents termites from growing. Since its re-
lease in 1995, it has become one of the larg-
est termite control products and is used in 18 countries worldwide, he said. 
Joseph Kays, UF director of research com-
munications, said UF’s hall of fame represen-tatives come from all branches of the univer-sity.
The recent additions are an honor for UF 
and its faculty, he said. 
“I think it’s a reﬂ  ection of the research 
strength of the University of Florida,” Kays said, “and also our commitment to transfer-ring research technology developed here to the marketplace,” Kays said.UF researchers to be inducted 
into FL Inventors Hall of Fame
“I think it’s a relection of the research 
strength of the 
University of Florida.”
Joseph Kays
director of research communications, UF
STUDENT  
GOVERNMENTThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORUF’s failure to meet 
zero-waste goal 
actually a success
In 2006, UF made a bold sustainability plan to dramati-
cally reduce its waste output. It was supposed to make UF almost waste-free by this year. 
The results are in: According to Tuesday’s front-page 
story in the Alligator, UF ﬂ  opped pretty hard. 
The 10-year plan was supposed to bring us to a zero-
percent waste goal. It sounds absurd, if not impossible, but 
the meaning of “zero waste” is actually pretty nuanced. 
Rather than produce no waste whatsoever — which would be impossible — the zero-waste goal relies on a different deﬁ  nition.
To qualify, UF would have to compost, reuse or recycle 
at least 90 percent of the waste it produces. The 10 percent thing makes the idea a bit more realistic, as there are a bunch of things that simply have to be thrown away — Shands can’t exactly reuse its hypodermic needles. 
Still, 90 percent is a steep statistic. It’s certainly under-
standable if we didn’t reach a point quite that high. 
Yeah, but we weren’t even close to being close. Last 
year, the amount of our waste that wasn’t carted to a land-ﬁ  ll was only 45.3 percent. UF got barely more than halfway 
— and by barely, we mean 0.3 percent more than … you 
probably did the math in your head by now. We’ll carry on from here.
We could use this space to rail against the administra-
tion, the Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability and, hell, the Student Body in retaliation for this shortcoming. But we won’t — mostly because that would be dumb, and we aren’t that mean. 
Besides, doing so would be a slap in the face to everyone 
who worked so hard to get us to 45.3 percent in the ﬁ  rst 
place. 
It would also ignore how amazing it is that we got there. 
Objectively, 90 percent is an incredibly ambitious goal — to 
attempt that in 10 years is honestly kind of crazy. Getting 
close to that will require a change in mindset for everyone 
in the UF community, which is pretty hard considering it gets thousands of new people every year. 
Yeah, UF sent 1,500 more tons to rot in a landﬁ  ll than it 
recycled or composted. But we’re choosing to see this whole 
deal as a positive sign: UF is committed to ambitious plans 
for sustainability and environmental welfare. 
It appears to have paid off: compared to the other univer-
sity sustainability programs mentioned in the story, we’ve 
done pretty well for ourselves. The Ohio State and Univer-
sity of Colorado Boulder each pulled 34.4 and 42.7 percent, respectively. 
In other words: yes, UF barely accomplished half of its 
stated goal. But in the context of that goal being pretty 
much impossible, we think this is something the UF com-
munity can be proud of. 
And, now that we’ve got a foot in the door, the UF com-
munity will have an advantage in the coming years. We’ve 
gotten pretty far since 2006; let’s see where the next decade 
takes us.New emojis ﬁ  nally acknowledge life’s diversity 
Apple released its newest operating system, 
iOS 8.3, last Wednesday. Among plenty of updates, Siri is now capable of calling someone on speakerphone, and Braille Screen Input users can ﬁ  ll out forms on 
Web pages. The most obvious update, however, is Apple’s introduction of more than 300 inclusive emojis. Emojis, for my dad and everyone else who hasn’t heard of them, are little digital images that can be sent with messages in order to add another facet to the blandness of communicating via text. Emojis help people express themselves in different ways than just text, and they come in a wide range of selec-tions including faces, foods and ﬂ  ags. Previously, however, 
there was little diversity among emojis. There was simply 
a collection of Crayola-yellow faces, a group of human-like emojis with pale skin color, an Asian man and a darker skinned man wearing a turban. Now, Apple has introduced the ability to select from a palette of skin tones for many of the emojis. Apple has also added same-sex family emojis, complimenting the same-sex couple emojis they introduced in 2012. Not everyone has welcomed the new diverse array of emojis, though.
In a column published by the Washington Post, writer 
Paige Tutt criticized Apple’s new emojis for exacerbating “racial segregation.” She argues Apple’s update is “political correctness gone wild.” As for promoting racial segregation, Tutt is looking at celebrating individuality from a pessimistic, outdated viewpoint. Identifying as a certain race or sexuality does indeed separate people, but it does it in a necessary way that celebrates the diversity among us. If we don’t celebrate our intricacies, we homogenize everyone as the same, and 
we lose the beauty of humanity. We each have our own iden-
tities and being able to represent them, even if it’s through an emoji, is empowering. It allows us to align our emotions and messages with who we are, and it alleviates intrapersonal conﬂ  ict. If we cling to emojis that avoid human identities, we impede the formation of a multicultural society.
Tutts and a lot of Apple users argue the multicultural emo-
jis interject race into conversations where it doesn’t belong. I would agree if we were discussing Starbucks’ campaign to write “Race Together” on people’s coffee cups last month, but we’re not. We’re dis-cussing digital images made to represent people, and people have races that can’t be ignored. There 
are disparities in education, health and nearly ev-
ery aspect of life when it comes to people with marginalized identities. These people are im-pacted on a daily basis because of their identities; so while a speciﬁ  c emoji may seem insigniﬁ  cant to you, it might mean a lot to someone else who would like to identify through an emoji. Diverse 
emojis give people that opportunity. They also acknowledge the worth of these people and their identities, and they put 
diversity at the forefront for productive conversation.
In her column, Tutt mentions these emojis allow for more 
racist comments on social media. She’s right, but that new 
capability isn’t completely bad. Those comments will high-light the pervasiveness of racism and homophobia many people don’t realize still exist and they will ignite potentially progressive conversations that would have been otherwise suppressed. Nearly three in four millennials agree we should talk freely about bias and think engaging in open conver-
sation about the topic can help alleviate prejudice. Emojis 
might trigger those conversations. They will help us feel closer to who we are, and we’ll be reminded there are other people who are different. With that constant visual reminder that the person we’re texting identiﬁ  es a certain way, we’ll be able to keep in mind we’re all amalgamations of identities and emotions. Then, we’ll be more likely to promote active inclusivity by checking our language and behavior.
I know an emoji will never accurately represent an entire 
group of people. We are too diverse to precisely depict each of our individual intricacies through tiny digital images. Still, I’m glad Apple decided to introduce more emojis represent-ing neglected communities. Acknowledging diversity is the ﬁ  rst step to embracing it, and Apple just made a large, rever-berating stride.
Christopher Wilde is a UF biochemistry freshman. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Christopher
Wilde
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
Israel does care
The effects of war are undoubtedly 
tragic. Loss of life, regardless of any af-
ﬁ  liating identity, is always devastating. 
Mothers weep for their sons; sons weep for their mothers. Fathers fear for their daughters; daughters fear for their fathers. 
We all cry the same tears. We all bleed 
the same blood. My ﬂ  esh is his ﬂ  esh, and his mine. I feel profound empathy for the pain people feel, for the grief the Israeli-Palestinian conﬂ  ict causes on a daily ba-
sis, to both Israelis and Palestinians.
In saying this, I wanted to offer an 
additional opinion on the April 8 article, 
“UF group educates students on discrimi-
nation in Palestine.” The article quotes a 
sign held by Students for Justice in Pales-tine that read, “IDF attacked Palestinian Christians in Beit Jala during Palm Sun-day service — Do you care?”
Yes, I do care. And so does Israel.I am a proud UF Jewish student, and 
in the summer of 2013 I volunteered in Is-rael with Magen David Adom, Israel’s na-
tional ambulance service. As an overseas 
volunteer, we rode ambulances 40 hours a week, assisting paramedics with calls ranging from simple hospital transfers to internationally headlined mass casualties. 
As a future physician, my experience was 
unparalleled. I received hands-on, on-the-job training that I could not have experi-enced anywhere else. I responded to an 
emergency airplane landing. I performed 
lifesaving CPR. I saw bullet wounds. For any pre-medical student, this was the per-fect opportunity to delve into medicine.
But aside from the scientiﬁ  c lessons, 
I learned a lot about Israel’s health care system. I learned about Israel’s medi-cal philosophies; I learned about Israel’s profound respect for humanity. While in 
training, we were told to treat every pa-
tient with respect, with dignity and with care — regardless of nationality, ethnic-ity, religion or any other intersecting iden-tity. It didn’t matter who the human was. 
What mattered was that they needed our 
help. It was our duty to save lives — an-cillary details did not matter.
I cannot speak for the Israel Defense 
Forces, as I am not an Israeli citizen, and I did not serve in the Israeli army. How-ever, as a volunteer for MDA, I can speak to the implied “inhumanity” of Israel this article addresses. When a student says, 
“People do not believe in Palestinian 
rights,” this is untrue. As a Jewish indi-vidual, I care. As a volunteer, I care. As a service member of the Israeli MDA, I 
care. As did my fellow volunteers from 
all around the world. As did my teach-ers from all across Israel. To assert that Israelis don’t care feels simply untrue. To promote one side feels unfair. To “push 
support and raise awareness” based on 
half an argument feels misguided.
The desire to educate students about 
the Israeli-Palestinian conﬂ  ict is vitally 
important. War takes from us the most 
important things of all — life, freedom, loved ones — and I believe the students mentioned in this article are coming from a well-intentioned place of heart, grief 
and sacriﬁ  ce. But I respectfully ask that 
the push for awareness be accurate and that the spread of information diffuses truth from both sides, from both Israeli 
and Palestinian perspectives, from all cor-
ners of Israel. 
Leora Lieberman
UF graduate studentIn her Twitter bio, Hillary Clinton describes herself in roles that range from being a “wife,” “FLOTUS” and “SecState” to “hair icon” and “pantsuit aﬁ  cionado.” Her bio, until recently, ended 
with the acronym “TBD” or “to be determined.”
That changed Sunday, when Clinton ofﬁ  cially an-
nounced her campaign to seek the Democratic nomina-
tion for president in 2016. The announcement video she 
tweeted already marks an important shift in how Clinton 
will approach this run for the presidency, as compared to her 2008 campaign.
The 2008 announcement of her candidacy featured Clin-
ton talking to the camera for all one minute and forty-ﬁ  ve 
seconds of the clip, discussing various points of policy and 
platforms in her campaign. Conversely, in her 2016 announcement video, Clinton does not even appear in the ﬁ  rst 90 seconds. Instead, viewers are shown clips of an array of American families who have 
“fought their way back from tough economic times,” as Clinton de-
scribes — exactly the people she hopes to “champion” as president.
Through the video, Clinton sends a clear message that this time 
around, the focus of her campaign will not be on her but on the Amer-ican people. Hoping to counteract the perception that she is a staid 
and out-of-touch politician, Clinton is moving toward a people-ﬁ  rst 
approach to prove her warmth and genuineness to voters. In short, she seeks a reinvention.
However, this reinvention may prove challenging for Clinton, who 
has been in the national public eye for over two decades. During this time, Clinton has shared a tumultuous and adversarial relationship with the press, who have repeatedly criticized her serious and “stuffy” personality while also scrutinizing every detail of her personal life.
Many of the attacks Clinton has faced by the media in the past 
have been closely tied to her gender. Particularly during her 2008 campaign, Clinton faced a great deal of sexist criticism from various members of the press, like “Hardball” host Chris Matthews, who called Clinton a “she-devil” who was only a front-runner at the time 
because “her husband messed around.” 
Clinton’s personality was denigrated by the use of words like am-
bitious, entitled and over-conﬁ  dent that weren’t used against male 
candidates. She will have to work to combat such unfair discrimina-tion as a part of her reinvention.
More recently, there was another addition to the list of words that 
new Hillary will have to overcome: secretive. Its use arises from a scandal concerning the former secretary of state’s use of a personal e-mail served for her ofﬁ  cial correspondence while in ofﬁ  ce. Her han-
dling of the press conference following the scandal was described 
as guarded and even combative, typical of the standofﬁ  sh character much of America believes Clinton to be.
However, toward the end of last month, Clinton openly expressed 
her desire for a clean state with the political press corps: “No more 
secrecy. No more zone of privacy. After all, what good did that do me?” Although said with a light tone, Clinton’s statements reﬂ  ect her genuine dedication to reinventing herself as more personable and accessible to the American 
people.
Her efforts have included bringing new aides into her 
campaign, like Kristina Schake, who used to work for ﬁ  rst 
lady Michelle Obama. As presumptive deputy communica-tions director for Clinton’s campaign, Schake will come up 
with new ways for Clinton to reach voters while rejecting 
the strategy used in 2008 of trying to prove Clinton’s strength and 
experience made her tough enough to be president.
In the past couple of months, the “TBD” that used to conclude 
Clinton’s Twitter bio took on a more important meaning than simply 
her presidential aspirations. It was a reﬂ  ection of the uncertainty in 
Clinton’s future with regard to how America will perceive her rein-vention. Would Clinton successfully bandage her damaged relation-ship with the political press corps and start her campaign with a clean 
slate? Would the American people perceive her attempt at reinvention 
as genuine or contrived? Could Clinton prove she is more than a staid, out-of-touch politician, but a leader who can reach voters and win the hearts of Americans in 2016?
Sunday marked the beginning of a new chapter in which these 
questions will be answered once and for all. Clinton’s Twitter bio now ends “2016 presidential candidate.” 
Minnie Jang writes for Harvard Political Review. A version of this 
column originally appeared on UWire. New year, new Hillary: Campaign shows warmth, sincerityColumn
Minnie Jang
UWire
“Hoping to counteract the perception 
that she is a staid and out-of-
touch politician, Clinton is moving 
toward a people-irst approach to 
prove her warmth and genuineness 
to voters. In short, she seeks a 
reinvention.”to arrest.
Drawdy called in her lawyer, Dean Galigani, who practices in 
Gainesville. They sent supplements to the state attorney’s ofﬁ  ce, 
and composition test results came back positive for the chemical.
In a November email, state attorney’s ofﬁ  ce investigator Paul 
Clendenin conﬁ  rmed Drawdy’s worst fear.
“Sale at your own risk,” he wrote. “It is FDLE’s opinion that 
the product tested positive for THC and therefore is illegal. We can not offer you any further information.”
Drawdy panicked. She took CannaVet off the shelves, worried 
about putting her employees and her friends at risk.
But Drawdy didn’t want to give up on her pets and the other 
animals who rely on the product to manage pain. She called the main players: the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Depart-
ment of Justice, Florida representatives, the Florida Department 
of Law Enforcement, the Florida Cannabis Action Network and even Publix, because it sells hemp milk.
She ﬁ  nally made progress with the state attorney’s ofﬁ  ce.Working with investigators, Drawdy had her product tested 
twice more, and both times the quantity of THC was so low it did not register in the test.
At this point, Cervone told Drawdy that if she were arrested, 
his ofﬁ  ce wouldn’t pursue the case. He wrote his cell phone num-ber on a business card and gave it to Drawdy “in case of a raid.” It hangs in a laminated pouch in her ofﬁ  ce, an easy reach next to the door.
That doesn’t mean Drawdy isn’t at risk.Drawdy still speaks with Sheriff Darnell about her doubts of 
the legality of CannaVet.
Despite the fact that Drawdy offered samples and research to 
prove CannaVet couldn’t get users high, she said Darnell refused, saying that simply because the product contains cannabis, it’s illegal.
“If they ﬁ  nd out it has THC, they can arrest her for that,” Ga-
ligani said, “whether the prosecutor would go forward with that in a formal prosecution — they’ve indicated they would not.”
When State Attorney Bill Cervone declined to comment on 
this story, he did so “as the matter is one that could be before us at some point.” He did not indicate whether he would pursue it.
To David Jones, the communications director for the Florida 
Cannabis Action Network, the issue lies in the disconnect be-
tween Florida’s law and federal law.
It comes down to a 1978 Florida Supreme Court case. Before 
the case, cannabis was illegal in Florida except for the parts of 
the plant that were processed into hemp — the seeds and stems.
In 1978, a man named John Lee Purifoy used this exemption 
to his advantage. He was convicted of possessing more than 5 grams of marijuana — a felony conviction at the time. Ofﬁ  cers weighed his weed in at 7.05 grams, and he was sentenced to three years in prison, according to court records.
Purifoy fought the charge, arguing marijuana stems were legal 
and therefore didn’t count. Police separated the stems from the seized weed and found the remaining parts of the plant weighed less than 5 grams.
The court ruled in Purifoy’s favor, and his conviction was 
voided, according to an Associated Press article from 1978.
Law enforcement agencies were frustrated by the result of 
the case, according to a 1979 United Press International article, because they said it’s impossible to separate stems from seized marijuana, especially when they seize a large amount.
So the legislation passed a law that both changed the mari-
juana felony possession amount to 20 grams and struck out the “seeds and stems” exemption.
“That’s not a loophole,” Jones said. “That’s just selective en-
forcement of prohibition. To me, that is one hand not speaking to the other.”
But he doesn’t blame law enforcement agencies for doing 
what they’re supposed to do — enforce the law.
“They’re trying to do their job with their hands tied,” he said. 
“It all gets pointed back to these lawmakers.”
Until the laws change, business owners like Drawdy are oper-
ating in a gray area, he said. 
That’s why his organization wrote and supports the Hemp 
Industry Development Act, a Florida bill that would once again legalize hemp sale and production.
Senate Bill 902 has already sailed through all but one com-
mittee. Its sister bill in the house — House Bill 363 — is at a dead stall. This isn’t the organization’s ﬁ  rst attempt at changing marijuana laws. 
A version of the hemp bill in the last session morphed into the 
Charlotte’s Web legislation, which legalized a speciﬁ  c strain of medical marijuana for patients with certain illnesses. Currently, the group has their eyes on 10 bills involving the spectrum of uses for marijuana.
Change is coming, Jones said.“If you believe that medical marijuana is just smoked or hemp 
is just rope, you’re so far off the mark,” he said. “That’s so 1990s.”
Until the law changes, Drawdy said she’s holding her breath. 
Even though she’s mostly conﬁ  dent she won’t get arrested, she 
still occasionally wakes up in a cold sweat and runs to the store to 
tear the skunky smelling supplements from the shelf.
But she always puts them back.“It’s worth it,” she said.8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015
HEMP,  from pg 1Bill in session aims to clarify hemp’s legal status in the state
CannaVet: It won’t get you 
high, but it can help your pets
CannaVet is a hemp supplement for pets designed to 
help with conditions like joint discomfort, seizures and 
anxiety, said Sarah Brandon, a Washington-based vet-erinarian who developed the product with her husband, fellow veterinarian Greg Copas.
Previously, the product was known as Canna Com-
panion.
Their dog, Muffy, and a herd of stray cats were be-
ing treated with pain medication for various illnesses, she said, but the side effects of these medications were awful.
“If you’re trying to control pain, and your dog or cat 
can’t eat or go to the bathroom, that’s not a good quality of life, ” Brandon said.
Copas treats his arthritis with medical marijuana, 
which inspired the couple to create a product for pets, even though marijuana was illegal at the time.
“We thought that it was important enough to risk our 
licenses and jail time, ” Brandon said.
The duo tested concoction after concoction with 
various levels of tetrahydrocannabinol — the active in-gredient that gives users a euphoric “high” — and canna-bidiol, the compound in marijuana with medical applica-
tions. The ingredients are commonly referred to as THC 
and CBD.
For more than ﬁ  ve years, they tested their own pets 
and the strays they cared for until they ﬁ  gured out a dos-age to share with friends. T oo much THC freaked out the pets; too much CBD made them sleepy.
A CBD to THC ratio of greater than 1:1 inhibits the 
psychoactive effects of THC, Brandon said, and the product exceeds this ratio. 
Another quality of the product that makes attaining 
a high impossible: CannaVet’s THC content is only 0.3 percent, Brandon said, which falls below the legal bar-rier and federally classiﬁ  es her product as hemp instead of marijuana.
“It’s not going to make anybody high. There are zero 
psychoactive effects, ” she said. “It is physiologically im-possible for that to happen. ”
Even if a toddler ate some, nothing would happen, 
she said, because the THC and CBD levels are so low.
“They’re tiny, tiny amounts because cats and dogs ac-
tually don’t need very much, ” she said.
If an adult were to down the entire bag of capsules, it 
would likely result in an unexpected nap, Brandon said.
      “If you believe that medical marijuana is just smoked or 
hemp is just rope, you’re so far of the mark. That’s so 
1990s.”
David Jones
communications director, Florida Cannabis Action NetworkWEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
CANNABIS SATIVA
While hemp and marijuana come from the same plant, they have distinct differences.
Source: Report by an agriculture specialist for the Congressional Research ServiceMarijuana
Hemp, also known as industrial hemp, 
refers to the plant grown for agricultural products such as seeds, ﬁ  bers and oils. Marijuana is the ﬂ  owering tops of the cannabis plant, speciﬁ  cally bred to have a high THC content. 
Average THC content: < 1 percent Average THC content: 10 percent Hemp is grown tall and thin as a single main 
stalk with a few leaves and branches.
 It is densely planted to avoid ﬂ  owering.
4 states have 
legalized the  sale 
of recreational marijuana.13 states have 
commercial 
industrial hemp programs.
13 states have 
commercial 
industrial hemp 
programs.
4 states have 
legalized the  sale 
of recreational 
marijuana.
 Marijuana is grown short, clustered and bushy, with many ﬂ  owering buds.
 Marijuana is planted with plenty of space.
Canada and the EU draw the line at 0.3 per-
cent. Below that is industrial and requires a license to grow. Above 0.3 percent is a drug. Some sample tests indicate THC levels of 30 percent, 40 percent or higher.HempWEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    
4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/
house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-22BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    5-12-15-32-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com   5-12-15-32-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    5-12-15-32-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1590. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
1BR Cottage $4952BR Cottage $650
Small Pet ok 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-15-14-2
FOR RENT: MIDTOWN.
Blocks from UF. 4BR/2BA, all appliances in-cluded, W/D, DW. Pets ok. From $1600/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    5-12-15-14-2
Efficiency apartment on horse farm $350/mo. Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and/or rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.     6-30-15-24-2
Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com    6-9-15-20-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
5-12-15-9-2
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE
SUMMER/FALL 2015!Located at Campus Edge across the street from the UF Campus and SouthWest Rec. Please call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    5-21-15-12-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Beautiful, spacious apt for rent @ 2nd Ave Centre. Sublease June-Aug for only $570/month. Personal bathroom. Convenient lo-cation. Shared kitchen & living room.berni.schor@gmail.com or 954-600-4967   4-15-5-3
Looking for anyone interested in subleasing my room at the pavilion $352 a month from May to June. You can contact me at 810-358-4202 or by email: atidrick11@icloud.com    5-21-15-10-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Wanted, private br/ba, furn liv-ing room, condo end unit (Rockwood Villas) $375/m + util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d. Call George 904.874.5774    4-22-15-14-4Available August 1st. Large room, pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 min from Shands. Perfect for med, engineering or grad student. Large, quiet, lovely home. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    5-28-15-16-4
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 ComputersWEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Designated drivers are the greatestUnload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.
Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.
Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers   352-771-6191   4-22-15-14-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           4-22-10-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
4-17-14-73-13 
www.Skinnteaglobal.com
Learn how to lose 5 lbs in 5 days with our fat 
burning tea. Income opportunity available. 
352-275-8561    4-22-6-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part - Time WantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal      4-16-15-14
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITION
Full or Part-time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th St.Veterinary experience ideal.    5-19-15-14
STAY IN GAINESVILLEFull/Part time openings 
Accounting Assistants
Linux AdministratorsSoftware/Web DevelopersMarketing CoordinatorCustomer Service Rep'sSales RepsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorWeb DesignerProofreaderCPA Product ManagerVideo TechPlease apply online at
www.gleim.com/employment.    4-20-15-10-
14
SIMED is looking for full time, part time and PRN employees for our Pharmacy, Radiology & various medical offices. Check out our web-site, SIMEDjobs.com for more information on each position and to apply online.    4-22-15-11-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, FlCook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
Lifeguard (Certified) $11.37 hourlySeasonal position works part-time on weekends in a maximum security mental health treatment facility for adult males in Gainesville, Florida.  Successful candidates must have current active certification as a lifeguard, a valid Florida driver’s license, and must be able to successfully complete the required background screening for provid -
ing caretaker services.  Applications must be received online by April 30, 2015. To apply, log onto: http://peoplefirst.myflorida.com.   Under Alachua County, select Human Services Worker II requisition # 60957037. You may also contact Grady Carthon at (352)264-8248 for more details.   4-22-15-10-14
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Hiring for Summer
Apply Mon-Fri 9am-8pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10/hr + Incentive + Paid Training
Bilingual SPANISH Speakers Needed
http://www.bebr.ufl.edu/survey/hiring
4-17-15-6-14
Tech-savvy person wanted to help au-thor promote books on social media. Examples: set up a pre-crafted tweet and a retweet button of the first chapter of a book; format an e-book for publication on Smashwords; help author put up audio clips on the Internet, help with market -
ing on Facebook and Twitter. Much more. Willing to pay well for someone with the right skills. Call 225-3533.    4-15-15-3-14
We are looking for highly motivated,
responsible, hardworking
individuals for the
summer semester & beyond.
Positions include:
Floor Instructors
Receptionists
Kid’s Club Attendants
Housekeeping / Sparkle Crew
Zwurly’s Cafe
Internships also available 
Apply at www.ghfc.com/careers
and at any of our three locations
4-15-15-3-14
 L E A S I N G  A G E N T -  PT
Friendly, Energetic Person.
Customer Service Exp.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefits pkg
Must be avail. weekends.
Apply in person Hunters Crossing Apts
4830 NW 43rd St.       DFWP
4-22-15-9-14
Leasing Consultant - Part Time (Flexible scheduling offering 30 hrs/week + 
benefits) for The Retreat at Magnolia Parke 
in Gainesville, FL. Apply at www.maac.com   
4-22-15-8-14
Hiring Vet Techs. Animal experience pre-
ferred. Salary commensurate with abili -
ties, full-time benefit pkg included. Apply at Jonesville Animal Hospital, 14145 W. Newberry Rd, Newberry.    4-20-15-5-14
Perform all aspects of property leasing, in-cluding but not limited to, lease of property, resident verification, file completion, answer -
ing phones, customer satisfaction, preparing newsletter, assist in planning resident func-tions. Perform all tasks in a timely manner. To obtain a complete job description, visit our website at www.emmergroup.com/about-us/careers.   4-21-15-5-14
Timber Ridge Camp of High View, WV is seeking an Aquatics director for the summer of 2015. Candidate must be or able to obtain lifeguard and WSI prior to Camp. Position runs June 11-Aug 8th. Travel and Room and Board Provided. Please apply online at www.trcamps.com or call 410-833-4080    4-20-15-4-14
A growing local business is looking for part-ners. Become your own boss while promot-ing a national brand. Hours and compensa -
tion are based on how you run the business. Call 386.972.1144 to hear more about how to change your lifestyle!    4-16-15-2-14
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-14-25-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-
25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 23 RidesHeadline
Story description Pg#WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Follow alligatorSports on 
Twitter
For updates from tonight's softballgame between UF and USF, followPatrick Pinak on Twitter @Pinakk12Tim Walton's softball team continues its homestand with a midweek game against South Florida today. First pitch is set for 6 p.m. at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. Admission is free.UF misses opportunities in extra innings loss to FSUBy Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
When Lauren Haeger arrived at UF, she 
didn’t expect she’d have the career she has 
had — a career decorated with conference accolades, school records and the cherry on top – a national championship. 
But did coach Tim Walton, who recruited 
Haeger out of high school, know just how good of a player he was getting?
“To be honest, yeah,” Walton said. 
“She’s a first-round draft pick if she’s a base-ball player. I really expected a lot of great things out of what I saw out of her at a really young age.”•   •   •
As a three-sport athlete at Peoria (Ariz.) 
Deer Valley High School, Haeger also let-tered in volleyball and basketball.
But her softball talents were top-flight.In her senior season, she hit .538, crush-
ing a state of Arizona single-season record while hitting 21 home runs and striking out — get this — just twice the whole season. 
In the circle, she went 26-5 with a 0.44 
ERA to accompany a whopping 413 strike-outs in 208 innings en route to becoming an 
NFCA first team high school All-American.
Oh, and her 48 career homers tied the 
state’s record. 
Simply put, she was an athletic freak in 
high school.
Prior to Haeger’s freshman year in 2012, 
the Gators were fresh off a second place 
finish in the 2011 Women’s College World Series to Arizona State – a school whose 
campus lies about 20 miles east of her home-
town of Peoria.
The runner-up finish matched the fur-
thest the Gators had ever gone in the WCWS at the time. 
Haeger said she chose to go to Florida 
over nearby Pac-12 schools like Arizona State because she wanted to be in a new en-vironment. 
“I wanted to come to a college town, 
come to a football school, experience college in a way that not a lot of people can say they did,” she said. 
But one of the determining factors in her 
decision was Walton. 
“I loved coach Walton and what he said,” 
Haeger said. “He said we were gonna win a national championship, and we did.”
•   •   •  
Walton didn’t waste any time finding 
production out of a young Haeger in 2012. 
She started all 61 games that season and 
blossomed as she led the team in home runs (14) and RBIs (52). 
Add in the fact that she went 15-5 with a 
1.85 ERA in the circle, and Walton knew he struck gold with Haeger. 
“I came in mostly, probably just as a 
pitcher,” Haeger said. “I wanted to hit too and coach Walton knew that. We both didn’t ever expect it was gonna be this good I don’t think.”
And it’s a good thing for the Gators that 
Duo nominated for post-grad scholarship
Florida wide receiver Mike McNeely and lacrosse midfielder Nora Barry 
have been nominated for the H. Boyd McWhorter Scholar-Athlete Post-Graduate Scholarship, the Southeastern Conference announced Tuesday. Recipients will be named on April 30.Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF senior Lauren Haeger (left) fist bumps coach Tim Walton after hitting a home run during Florida's 4-1 win against Illinois 
State on Feb. 21 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. Haeger is tied for UF's and the SEC's record with 65 career home runs.
Perfect ending: Haeger chasing records in final season
BASEBALL
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
Quincy Nieporte didn’t budge.The ball had just left his bat, and 
instead of racing towards first base, he simply watched it soar over the left-field wall.
One pitch into the 12th inning, 
the longest game in UF-FSU history finally ended off the bat of Florida State’s first baseman.
Though scoring was sparse for 
most of the night, No. 13 FSU (27-12) used four solo home runs to edge past No. 8 Florida (28-10) 4-3 in extra innings on Tuesday.
After averaging 15 runs per game 
in its past four outings, the Gators came down to earth on Tuesday.
“We played well, just not well 
enough to win,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said.
Florida had its opportunities. 
In the top of the 12th and with the game tied at three, Josh Tobias found himself at the plate with the bases loaded. But the senior lined out to end the inning.“I thought Josh’s at-bat was real-
ly good, we just didn’t do enough to win the ball game,” O’Sullivan said.
The game was quiet through the 
first one and a half innings. 
Right-hander Shaun Anderson 
worked quickly through the top of FSU’s lineup in his first career start but gave up the game’s first solo home run to the Seminoles’ Dylan Busby in the second inning.
UF responded with two runs in 
the third, one after a Harrison Bader double to left field and the other af-ter a Peter Alonso single down the left-field line.
FSU evened the game at two af-
ter Busby hit another solo homer to start the fourth inning, this time off of relief pitcher Eric Hanhold.
Florida took back the lead after 
Schwarz homered to left field two innings later.
FSU’s Chris Marconcini evened 
the game at three after the redshirt senior solo homered with no outs in the eighth inning.
The game remained scoreless 
until Nieporte walked off in the 12th inning.For most of the night, Florida’s 
pitching was consistent. Its bullpen combined for eight strikeouts and allowed three runs on seven hits. Bobby Poyner was Florida’s bright spot— the senior entered the game in the eighth and held FSU scoreless through 2.2 innings.
“I thought Shaun was solid, 
Bobby was great again, and (Frank) Rubio was good,” O’Sullivan said. “But that’s the difference between losing and winning the game. You’ve got to make a pitch here and there.”
SEE HAEGER,  PAGE 15By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Writer
@alexmaminakis
The postseason is right around 
the corner, but Florida still has some 
work to do before that time comes.
The No. 8 Gators (11-4, 5-0 Big 
East) host Cincinnati (2-12, 0-4 Big 
East) today at noon in Florida’s final 
regular-season home game at Don-ald R. Dizney Stadium. 
The Gators may be looking for-
ward to their first Big East Tourna-ment in Connecticut on the final weekend of April, but they’re not focusing on that just yet. 
The Bearcats are their main pri-
ority.
“I don’t think we can afford to 
look past any games,” sophomore Mollie Stevens said. “We have a semi-tough game (on Wednesday), and then we go into UConn and we can’t look past that at all. … We just 
have to focus on that right now and 
not postseason.”
Stevens is looking to tie the 
UF program record for consecu-tive games with a goal scored. She has recorded a goal in 19 straight matches dating back to last year, and can make it 20 today, which would tie Ashley Bruns’ record set 
in 2010-2011.
Although Florida has prepared 
for Cincinnati the same as it would 
any other opponent, the two teams are on opposite sides of the spec-trum in terms of success. 
Florida is looking to win its sixth 
straight game and stay unbeaten in the Big East. With a win over 
the Bearcats and a loss by UConn 
tonight, the Gators will clinch the conference regular season champi-onship.
Meanwhile, Cincinnati arrives 
in Gainesville having lost seven straight matches. In only one of those losses, to Coastal Carolina on March 15, the Bearcats managed to muster up 10 goals. Cincinnati has 
more than 10 goals just three times 
this year, with a season-best 14 against Presbyterian. 
Florida has scored more than 10 
goals in all but one game this sea-son – a 16-6 loss to No.1 Maryland on the road. The Gators’ 237 goals scored this year are the most in the nation, and UF’s average of 15.8 
goals per game is more than Cin-
cinnati has scored in any game all season.
No, Florida doesn’t want to look 
past any opponent, but the Gators feel good about today’s home finale.
“We watched film (on Mon-
day),” Stevens said about the Bearcats’ defense. “I think we’ll be 
fine.”14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Florida lacrosse players celebrate after a goal during UF’s 18-4 win against Georgetown on April 4 at Don-
ald R. Dizney Stadium. The Gators play their final regular-season home game at noon against Cincinnati.
NOTEBOOK
By Luis T orres
Alligator Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
Rod Johnson’s football career 
is over.
UF doctors diagnosed the of-
fensive lineman with congenital 
cervical stenosis, or narrowing of 
the spinal column that prevents enough fluid to gather around the spinal cord to protect it from fur-ther injury.  
But where one door closes, an-
other one opens up.
Coach Jim McElwain said that 
Johnson will be staying on the 
football team serving as a student 
assistant.
“It was one of those deals that 
we wanted to make sure that we got as many opinions as possible to make sure,” McElwain said. “He’ll be a huge part of this pro-gram, this football team.
“I look forward to him being 
a great influence on these young guys that are coming in.”
Johnson played in 12 games as 
a Gator, with three starts.
More injury woes: John-
son isn’t the only offensive line-man who is dealing with an in-jury. David Sharpe underwent surgery on his eye on Monday. 
Sharpe is expected to anchor 
the line when he comes back, as McElwain called him the “vet” of the group.
Antonio Riles also underwent 
previously scheduled surgery on a hernia.
“I think the big part is about 
the guys who already had their 
surgery and where their rehab 
goes,” McElwain said. “This will be a huge summer to see where they’re at.”
Other than the injuries along 
the offensive line, McElwain mentioned that the team came out pretty healthy in the Spring.
Spring game review:  
McElwain and his staff reviewed the tape from the Orange & Blue Debut and they liked how clean the game was. There were virtu-ally no penalties from either side, which is a good sign for Florida as they were 98th in the nation 
last season averaging 6.7 penal-
ties per game.
“I think we 
made some progress that way, and yet it 
gives us a lot to go through as we move 
forward into 
the summer,” McElwain said. 
“Right now we’re in the middle of meeting with each and every player, and talking to them about things moving forward.”
After 15 practices of installing 
a new offensive and defensive 
scheme and players adjusting 
to the coaching staff, McElwain was pleased with how the Spring came out.
“There were some really good 
things. It happened too fast,” McElwain said. “Kind of wish we had another 15 left, but that’s the way it goes. We’ll go from there.”
Potential transfers:  As is 
the case with a lot of teams fin-ishing Spring football with a new coach, the opportunity arises for some players to either come into 
a program, or leave the program.
At Florida, it’s no different.
There will be some players 
who aren’t satisfied with the new scheme that McElwain and his staff have brought in, so they might be looking to jump ship.
“I haven’t met with each and 
every guy yet,” McElwain said. 
“I’m sure that there are some 
guys that will be looking. … I’m not pushing anybody out the door. We want them all here. They’re all Gators. ... We’ll see when the time comes. Right now we haven’t had any indications of anybody. I sure hope they all stay.”  Injured lineman serving 
as student assistantLacrosse plays home finale today
Florida plays Cincinnati
McElwain
Haeger has done both hit and 
pitch, because she has 65 career home runs, which is tied for the program and Southeastern Confer-ence record set by Megan Bush in 
2011. 
But Haeger, who loves blasting 
balls out of the park as much as the 
next player, said she doesn’t think about the record. 
“I can’t, because then I’ll try 
to hit home runs and you can’t do that,” she said. “To be honest, it’s not really the most important thing 
to me, but it is really a cool thing.”
Walton said when Bush was ap-
proaching the record, he never dis-
cussed it with her, and he hasn’t with Haeger.  
“She and I have never even 
talked about it,” he said. “You just try to get them equipped with their strengths and do what they do 
well.”
•   •   •
Of the 65 home runs Haeger’s 
hit as a Gator, two stand out in her 
memory, and they came on the same day. 
Flash back to March 17, 2013. 
Haeger was a sophomore at the 
time. 
Tennessee and Florida were in 
the middle of an intense series in 
Gainesville and had just split the first two games of the series after both were decided by extra in-nings. 
Haeger, who was 1-for-8 in the 
series, knew she had to step it up at the plate in the Sunday rubber game. 
“I had been struggling the 
whole series,” she said. 
The Gators found themselves 
down 3-0 to the Volunteers in the sixth inning of what was quickly shaping up to be a loss. 
But then Haeger struck with 
two thunderous blows. 
She tied the game at three with 
a three-run homer in the bottom of the sixth and later cranked a walk-off two-run homer in the bottom of 
the eighth inning to seal the win 
and take the series. 
“I don’t really know how I did it 
because they had a great pitching staff,” she said, “but I did and that was probably the most memorable for me.”
•   •   •
While Haeger has had many 
memorable games and moments on the field, she’s also made unfor-gettable friendships. 
Haeger met a teammate in 2012 
that would play alongside her for years to come in Bailey Castro. 
Castro, who was also a fresh-
man at the time, didn’t see as much playing time as Haeger did – she started just 33 games that sea-son – but the two quickly became good friends on and off the field. 
Now as their collegiate careers 
begin to wind down, they’re trying to have as much fun as they can together. 
The pair routinely dances in 
the on-deck circle before they go to bat. 
“It’s really easy on the field to 
joke with each other just to kind of take that serious edge out of it and loosen up,” Castro said.  
The dynamic duo has also 
served to be the middle of the line-up for most of this year – they’ve batted back-to-back in 34 of Flor-ida’s 44 games this season – and have kept constant pressure on pitchers. 
Haeger leads the team with 13 
homers and Castro's 11 are tied for second.
Yet while the two are good pals, 
you can bet there’s competition be-tween them.  
“It’s funny because me and Lau-
ren always joke around – I always try to out hit her,” Castro said. 
“Lauren’s a great hitter and I’ve 
been on this team a long time with her, and I know the great things 
she can do. I just try to keep up 
with her if I can.”
Even Walton, who preaches 
that pitching and defense wins games, knows he’s lucky to have such a consistent one-two punch in the middle of the lineup. 
“They’re both very patient, they 
both can drive in runs, they both 
can hit the ball out of the ball-
park,” Walton said. “You just can’t breathe if you’re a pitcher and you gotta get through those two.”
•   •   •
There’s no doubt that Haeger 
has an infectious personality, one that seems to attract teammates to her like a magnet. 
Junior Kirsti Merritt, who has 
played alongside Haeger the last three years, will be the first to tell you how great it is to play with her. 
“She has a very vibrant attitude 
and you can tell whenever she’s pitching out there that she has a lot of emotion,” Merritt said. “You just feed off of her whenever she’s in the pitcher’s mound or when 
she’s hitting or doing anything.”
And like Haeger and Castro’s 
bond, Merritt and Haeger both 
have fun with each other. Merritt has experienced the more comedic side of Haeger. 
“We have some really good 
laughs in the locker room, she’s got some really good jokes,” Mer-
ritt said. “My favorite part of her is 
her voices. She cracks me up with all her imitations she can do.”
Haeger’s best imitation? Merritt 
says it’s the voice of Gru from “De-spicable Me”. 
“We were on the bus and just 
like dying laughing over her Gru voice,” she said. “That was prob-
ably one of the best memories with 
her.”
•   •   •
In her senior season, Haeger 
has carried the Gators with her bat and her arm. After losing Hannah Rogers following last season, Hae-ger worked hard in the Fall on her 
pitching endurance to help propel 
her as the ace of the pitching staff.
It’s certainly paid off. She’s a perfect 19-0 on the sea-
son with a 1.03 ERA. 
While she leads the team in 
most statistical categories, she’s been a leader to Florida’s No. 2 pitcher — freshman Aleshia Oca-
sio. 
“She’s definitely helped me 
with my composure, she tells me 
not to get ahead of myself,” Ocasio said. “She’s been taking me under her wing.”
But even the veteran Haeger 
needs encouragement from her teammates — one of whom hap-
pens to be her catcher, junior Au-
bree Munro.
“She usually just needs me 
to go out there and be like, ‘you know what, you look great in uni-form today,” Munro said. 
•   •   •
As Haeger’s remarkable season 
continues, her career won’t wind down this year. 
She was drafted by the Dallas 
Charge with the 21st overall pick in 
the fourth round of this year’s Na-
tional Pro Fastpitch Senior Draft. 
Dallas is about a 15 hour drive 
from Peoria and lies just two states away. 
“It’s a team she really wanted to 
play for and a good opportunity for her,” Walton said. “She’s one flight away from all of her family being 
able to see her play at home.”
Haeger will join two other 
Gators from last year’s national 
championship team to play in the league in Rogers and infielder Stephanie Tofft. 
Though she was close with Rog-
ers, Haeger said she’s not disap-pointed that she won’t be joining 
Rogers on USSSA Pride, which is 
based out of Orlando. 
“I love Hannah and we’re gon-
na play a lot against each other and we’ll see each other,” Haeger said. “It would’ve been fun either way.”
Though Walton, who has 
coached in the NPF for two years, said the league is full of the best of 
the best from college, he said Hae-
ger will hold her own. 
“Lauren is that player that we 
recruited, I mean if anyone has a chance to go on and have a profes-sional career, I figured it would be her,” he said. 
And if anyone knows best, it’s 
Walton, who knew from the mo-
ment he saw Haeger play in high 
school that she would develop into a star.    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Lauren Haeger pitches during Florida's 7-1 win against Kansas on Feb. 21 at Katie Seashole Pressly 
Stadium. Haeger leads UF in almost every major statistical category during her senior year.
HAEGER,  from pg 13Haeger tied for SEC record in home runs, 19-0 in pitcher's circle
Lauren Haeger’s career milestones:
First Hit
Feb. 11, 2012 – 8-0 win over Long Island
First win
Feb. 11, 2012 – 8-0 win over Maine
First home run
Feb. 11, 2012 – 11-0 win over Illinois State
First multi-home run game
May 19, 2012 – 7-1 over UCF (NCAA Regionals)
100 career RBIs
April 14, 2013 – 6-3 over Kentucky
First no-hitter
Feb. 9, 2014 – 5-1 win over Wisconsin 
200 career RBIs
Feb. 15, 2015 3-0 win over NC State
Tied home run record
April 12, 2015 — 6-3 win over Kentucky
Lauren Haeger’s Career Statistics
Batting Average:  .321 (Ninth in UF history)
Slugging Percentage:  .660 (Third in UF history)
RBIs: 237 (First in UF history)
Home Runs:  65 (Tied for first in UF history)
ERA: 1.78 (Eighth in UF history)
Complete Games: 40 (Ninth in UF history)
Shutouts: 18 (Seventh in UF history)
Strikeouts thrown:  453 (Seventh in UF history)16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 2015
By Justen Rosenberg
Alligator Writer
@JustenRosenberg
The Gators women’s golf 
team looks to carry over their 
recent regular season success to Birmingham, Alabama, this weekend as they seek 
their first Southeastern Con-
ference Championship since the 2007-08 season.
Heading into the tourna-
ment, Florida is coming off of four consecutive top-5 fin-ishes, placing fourth in the leaderboards in their most re-cent event after earning their 
first win of the season at the 
Briar’s Creek Invitational.
As the No. 21 team in 
the country, the Gators join the likes of South Carolina and LSU as one of eight SEC teams ranked in the top 25 heading into the conference tournament.
“The chemistry of the 
team is very good,” coach Emily Glaser said. “They believe in each oth-
er, we’ve had a lot of people 
have individual successes 
this year. I think that gives them all confidence in each other.”
One golfer who looks to 
turn things around is fresh-man Taylor Tomlinson.
The Gainesville native had 
15 bogeys and four double-bogeys in three rounds at last week’s Bryan National Col-legiate, which moved her cu-
mulative score to 18-over-par 
and put her in a tie for 48 in the individual leaderboards.
“Taylor has very high ex-
pectations for herself and I think sometimes those can get in the way a little bit, es-pecially being a freshman,” 
Glaser said.
In six Spring tournaments, 
Tomlinson has finished in 
the top-25 a team-high five times. 
Hoping her freshman re-
turns to form, Glaser has been giving Tomlinson ad-vice heading into the tourna-
ment. 
“Just make sure that she 
keeps believing and goes out 
there and gives it her all this weekend which I know she will,“ Glaser said.
Outside of Glaser’s re-
sounding belief in Tomlin-son, the team itself believes 
in each other, which will be 
crucial in determining their success in the tournament. 
“We talked a lot this year 
about some of the intangibles things that make great teams great and we really focused on those things,” Glaser said, “and I have a group of girls 
that really believes in that.”Women’s golf ready for SECsMEN’S GOLF
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
 
After a runner-up finish at the Old 
Waverly Collegiate Championship April 
7, the UF men’s golf team returns to ac-tion Friday as they take part in the open-
ing round of the Southeastern Confer-
ence Championship.
Seniors J.D. Tomlinson and Eric 
Banks will compete for the Gators in the postseason tournament along with ju-nior A.J. Crouch, sophomore Ryan Orr and freshman Alejandro Tosti. These are the same five that sealed the second place finish last week.
This year’s SEC Championship will 
pit the Gators against four top-10 teams: No. 4 Vanderbilt, No. 6 Auburn, No. 8 South Carolina and No. 9 LSU. 
Besides Tosti, all four athletes have  
experience playing in the SEC Champi-onship and coach JC Deacon said it will give them a slight edge going into the weekend.
Banks shot 1-over-par to finish tied 
for 26th last year leading the team. Orr finished last year’s event 5-over-par and 
Tomlinson shot 8-over-par for the tour-
nament.
“We’re working three times as hard 
as we did when we started this year,” 
Deacon said. “The atti-tude is so much better than it was when we started and that’s ob-viously another huge 
thing. … I look back 
to that first tourna-
ment we had, it was a heavy SEC field, and we were 14 shots be-
hind the second to last place team af-ter the first day and to think about how far this team has come since that day, it makes me so proud.”
The past week has been a big one for 
Deacon personally as his first regular season as head coach came to a close and he and his wife welcomed their first daughter into their family.
“Life’s pretty exciting right now,” 
Deacon said. “I can’t believe I have the honor, and I’m a head coach going into the SEC championship. A lot of dreams 
are coming true.”UF prepping for postseason
“Taylor has very high 
expectations for herself 
and I think sometimes 
those can get in the way a 
little bit, especially being 
a freshman.”
Emily Glaser
UF women’s golf coach
Deacon
