By Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writer
mmihm@alligator.org
On Monday morning, Carly Reeves woke 
up to UF alerts regarding a gunshot outside her 
dorm at Murphree Hall.
The 18-year-old nursing freshman who just 
arrived at UF for Summer B immediately called 
her parents at about 9 a.m. to tell them what 
happened. When her mom got a hold of her, she told Reeves her heart dropped when she heard how close the shot was to where her daughter sleeps at night.
Reeves’ call to her parents came about six 
hours after Clay Shanks, 25, pulled a gun out of Sarah Gooden’s purse and ﬁ  red it in the air outside of the UF dorm, University Police De-
partment spokesman Maj. Brad Barber said. No 
one was shot.
The two are believed to have been at a Mid-town bar before walking to their car in the Murphree 
Hall parking lot at about 2:30 
a.m., Barber said. Neither Shanks nor Gooden, 21, are afﬁ  liated with the university.
Before the shot went off, 
a UPD ofﬁ  cer saw Shanks was in a physical ﬁ  ght with another man, according to a report. Shanks then grabbed Gooden’s purse, 
pulled the gun out and ﬁ  red a single shot.
Shanks dropped the gun and ran despite the 
ofﬁ  cer telling him to stop, according to the re-
port. He was caught within about 10 minutes and asked police for water because the taste of Jagermeister in his throat was making him sick.
Within the same timeframe, Gooden picked 
up the gun, got inside a car and drove south on Buckman Drive. She was found shortly af-
ter with the gun inside her purse on the front driver’s seat.
UPD arrested Shanks on 
charges of battery, shooting 
a gun on school property, using a gun under the inﬂ  u-ence of alcohol and resisting ofﬁ  cers without violence. He 
was taken to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, his bond has not 
been set.
UPD also arrested Gooden on charges of car-
rying a concealed weapon without a permit and tampering with evidence. She was also taken to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, her bond has not been set.
“It’s literally right outside my window,” 
Reeves said of the shooting. From her corner dorm’s window, she could see reporters inter-viewing other students throughout the morning 
and early afternoon.But Reeves said despite the shooting, she 
isn’t scared. Crazy stuff happens, she said, and people just have to be careful.
Most of the people Reeves talked to were 
sleeping when the gun went off, except one 
of her neighbor’s friends who heard it and as-sumed it was ﬁ  reworks.
Barber said he hopes this will serve as a re-
minder for students to report any suspicious ac-tivity to law enforcement immediately.
Neither Barber nor Gainesville Police spokes-
man Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias can recall a shooting of this nature in recent history.
Although unrelated to the shooting and not 
prompted by the event, Barber said UF is con-ducting an emergency exercise Thursday from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. The exercise will involve volunteers with simulated injuries, ﬁ  re departments, law enforcement agencies and other public safety personnel.We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 165 TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015
Gators in the MLB
Get an update on Preston Tucker, Mike Zunino 
and David Ross, among others, pg 14.
Gainesville hosts its own Running of the Bulls
This was the ﬁ  rst time was held, pg 5.
Feeling crabby?
See our photo story from Saturday’s Gainesville Crab Festival,pg 8.Bernie Sanders’ grassroots movement 
reaches Gainesville
The High Dive is hosting an event Wednesday, pg 3.
Campus shooting suspects caught, no one hurtCAMPUS
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
From now on, April 17 will be 
known as Josh Greenberg Day in Gainesville.
People will still be able to cele-
brate his birthday for years to come.Mayor Ed Braddy announced the 
decision Friday afternoon at the Phil-lips Center for the Performing Arts, 
where hundreds of people gathered 
to celebrate Greenberg’s life.
Greenberg, a UF alumnus, co-
founder of Grooveshark Music and a 
man with many friends, was found 
dead on July 19 by his girlfriend. The cause of death remains unknown. 
He was 28.
In the lobby of the Phillips Cen-
ter, framed photos depicted the life 
of Greenberg, from his curly-haired toddler days to a man with a full-
grown beard.
He’s smiling in every single one.
Awards peppered the white-cloth tables. He got third place in fourth grade in an Einstein Math Meet in 1997. An award titled “I Broke the Server” sat among the gifts he re-ceived for speaking at events.
Even after his death, the acco-
lades kept coming in. Phoebe Cade Miles of the Cade Museum for Cre-ativity and Invention announced through a recorded video message that a sculpture of Greenberg will join the museum’s outdoor exhibit.Using an outline of his proﬁ  le, it 
will double as a vase to represent all the things he ﬁ  lled his life with, and his face, to remember the man who helped Gainesville become a city of innovation, she said.
On the tables in the lobby, two 
white boxes read “Please leave a memory,” encouraging everyone to share an experience or encounter with Greenberg.  
Grooveshark co-founder leaves behind a legacy
Memorial held in Phillips Center
SEE GREENBERG,  PAGE 4Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Pictured is the Murphree Commons area. At about 2:30 a.m. Monday, 25-year-old Clay Shanks became involved in a ﬁ  ght, pulled out a gun and ﬁ  red a shot in the air above the Murphree parking lot. No one was hurt.
Gooden
 Shanks
Briana Erickson @journo_bre
Got the UF Alert early this morning. Thankful everyone’s ok #whenwillthisstop
Noelia Trujillo @NoeliaSays
Shots ﬁ  red near Murphree Hall @UF . Stay safe everyone. And PS 
America, we need better gun laws. #breakingnews #UF
Pat Bachi @PatBachi
@UF Would have been nice as a parent of a Murphree Hall freshman student to have gotten notice of this from the school. A NOT happy alum.
Pete Stewart @PeteStewartMPH
Thank God my daughter is safe and no injuries at yet another senseless shooting in a school.
Twitter responses to Murphree shooting
Rachel Lo / Alligator Staff
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 165
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Summer Sing concert  
August 3 at 7:30 p.m. in the UF 
Music Building, Room 101, there will be a Summer Sing concert conducted by Joshua L. Mazur. It 
will feature Mozart’s Ave Verum 
Corpus and Schubert’s Mass in G. Admission is free.
Friday night swing dancing at the 
Music BuildingThe Florida Swing Dancing Club invites all to its weekly dance this and every Friday. There will be 
a free lesson for beginners and 
intermediates open to everyone from 8 to 9 p.m., followed by two hours of dancing from 9 to 11 p.m. at the UF School of Music, Room 121. For more information, 
find them on Facebook: face-
book.com/groups/FLSDC/.
Students receive free admission 
to Florida MuseumStudents with a valid Gator 1 Card receive free admission to the Butterfly Rainforest and other fee-based exhibits year-round at 
the Florida Museum of Natural 
History, sponsored by UF Student Government. The museum is lo-cated at 3215 Hull Road. The mu-seum is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday and from 1 to 5 p.m. on Sunday.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releas-es will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  90° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Grace Hudgins, Lindsey   
  Saucier, Elena Castello, Kristine Janata
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Serina Esquivel, Bailey Gaul, 
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Nadine Rae Saladino ,  
  Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel Lo
TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
By Ramon Peña
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville is “feeling the Bern” 
as Gainesville Wants Bernie, a lo-
cal group, is hosting a meet-up Wednesday at High Dive bar per request of Democratic Party nomi-
nee Bernie Sanders.
The meeting comes as part of 
Sanders’ pro-grassroots campaign, 
which has asked Americans na-
tionwide to organize on Wednes-
day and hold conversations on 
how to start an “unprecedented 
grassroots movement.” 
In Gainesville, this will culmi-
nate at High Dive bar located in downtown Gainesville, 210 SW Second Ave., starting at 7 p.m. and continuing through the night. 
At 8 p.m., Sanders will hold 
a national broadcast that will be 
played on every TV, but between 
that, patrons will have access to entertainment in the form of live music and full bar functionality. 
Molly Victoria Vise, a 21-year-
old UF biology senior and event coordinator, said the event is meant to educate residents and students alike on Sanders’ plat-
form and the issues affecting 
America. A student coordinator for the political action committee People’s America, Vise said she feels that Sanders is someone she can get behind. 
“He speaks to millennials,” 
Vise said. “He’s the ﬁ  rst candidate 
I’ve ever witnessed that made me 
feel like he’s putting youth issues at the forefront.” 
Vise said she was worried 
about hosting the event at High Dive, a 450-person capacity ven-ue, because it may have been too 
big. Now, with more than 600 
RSVPs on Facebook and dozens more through the Bernie Sanders campaign website, the issue be-comes handling the overﬂ  ow.Gainesville Wants Bernie is be-
ing run as an event for the Pro-gressive Gators, a hopeful student organization of which Vise will be the president. They are expecting to go fully public in Fall but al-ready have a constitution and the 
framework in place. 
The goal is to establish a long-
lasting progressive movement on 
campus bigger than any one can-didate. 
Recognition for an independent 
candidate was a main issue, with Sanders always in the shadow of big names like Hillary Clinton, 
Donald Trump and Jeb Bush. 
He has created such attention, though, that the media has to lis-ten, Vise said. 
“He’s going to become impos-
sible to ignore. I’m certain of it,” Vise said. 
Fred Byrd, 25, a fourth-year 
UF mathematics graduate student 
who will also be taking a leading 
role in Progressive Gators, said he believes Sanders has a real chance to speak out to communities and make real change. He calls Sand-ers an authentic politician who re-ally cares about the working class.
He is focused on the important 
issues like the economy and the 
working man, Byrd said. 
“Bernie Sanders has really pulled me out of political apathy 
and made me believe in American democracy again,” Byrd said.
High Dive will be fully func-
tional, Vise said. There will be a special guest speaker, who is yet to be determined. The musi-
cal stylings of The Duppies will 
be there for entertainment. Apart from that, there will be a rafﬂ  e and a food truck present. 
Vise said Sanders represents 
new ideas, at least for Americans. 
“For me, he represents the 
turning of a page,” Vise said. “If we could get him elected, when 
we do get him elected, it’s going 
to feel like a breath of fresh air.”
The Associated Press
Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., right, poses for a photo at a rally Sunday 
in Kenner, Louisiana.
Bernie Sanders’ grassroots movement reaches Gainesville
WHO IS BERNIE SANDERS?
 One of his main platforms is 
the raising of minimum wage to $15 an hour. 
 Sanders, now 73, won the 
mayorship of Burlington, Ver-mont, by just 10 votes. He witnessed Martin Luther King Jr. ’s “I have a dream” speech in person and led protests against segregation in schools in the ‘60s. Most recently in 2010, he gained prominence for holding a good-old-fash-ioned ﬁ  libuster against the Bush-era tax cuts.
 He stands as the longest-
serving independent in Con-gress, although he’s contend-ing for the Democratic Party nomination.
 He stands second in the 
Democratic Party nomination 
race at 15.8 percent of sup-port, only behind Hillary Clin-ton’s 58 percent, according to RealClearPolitics.
 Also of note, Sanders has 
been consistently drawing the largest crowds out of any potential presidential nomi-nee. In Phoenix, Arizona — a predominantly red state — 11,000 supporters came out to see his speech, about dou-ble who turned up for Donald Trump’s speech a week ear-lier, according to The Associ-ated Press.4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015Greenberg helped usher in the innovation 
craze that hit Gainesville about a decade ago, 
Braddy said.
Greenberg’s vision for Gainesville, in a time 
when everyone left to Silicon Valley to start a 
business, was to turn it into a hub of talent, 
Braddy said.
Former UF President Bernie Machen said he 
believes Josh’s greatest gift was his mentoring and teaching to other local start-up companies.
“We can’t make sense of Josh’s loss,” Ma-
chen said. “It baffles me and it leaves a hole in my heart.”
But everyone here, he said, can be thankful 
for getting to know him, his impact on UF and the love and care he showed to everyone.  
Machen said every student offered some-
thing unique.
“And boy, was that true of Josh,” he said.Innovation Square, just east of UF’s cam-
pus, is a tribute to him, Machen said. 
Infinity Hall, a residential hall set to open in 
the square in Fall, will honor Greenberg, serv-
ing as an everlasting memory to a man who 
inspired, encouraged and positively impacted so many people, Machen added.“Its concept and its design is to produce 
more Josh Greenbergs,” he said.
Sam Tarantino, who co-founded Groove-
shark with Greenberg, fought back tears as he recounted the nine and a half years that he knew him.
They spoke every day, he said.
“Our relationship was about as close to a 
married couple as you can get, in the most 
platonic way possible, of course,” Tarantino joked. 
We must continue what Josh started, Tar-
antino said. Carry and pass on the torch of car-ing; that’s what he would have wanted.
After his speech, Tarantino poured his heart 
out over a piano while he sang “You Raise Me 
Up,” with two others on a violin and cello.
Ken McGurn, a mentor for Greenberg, said 
he was awed by the lanky kid whose aspira-
tions and kindness saw no end.
“Josh was a nice guy,” he said. “Josh will 
not be forgotten.”
In the lobby, framed photos of Greenberg 
invited friends to leave behind a message around the picture.
On the top left corner of one, someone 
wrote: “Josh. Thanks for taking a chance on me. I don’t know who I’d be without you.”GREENBERG,  from pg 1Loved ones remember his innovation, uniqueness, talent
Melissa Gomez / Alligator Staff
Sam T arantino (left), co-founder of Grooveshark, a Gainesville-based music stream-
ing service, speaks to family and friends of fellow co-founder Josh Greenberg, who was found dead on July 19.
CAMPUS
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
UF President Kent Fuchs’ goal-
setting task force has finished its first 
task.
The 17-person committee, led by 
Fuchs’ executive chief of staff Win-
fred Phillips, released six overarch-
ing draft goals Thursday evening on the Office of the President’s website.
The goal of the task force is to 
gather information in order to set the university’s goals for the next five to 10 years.
The six goals, as directly stated 
on the website, are for the university 
to have:
— an exceptional community of 
students, faculty, and staff that em-
braces breadth of thought and expe-rience in support of university goals through cultural, racial, gender, geo-graphic and all aspects of diversity
— an outstanding and accessible 
education that prepares students for 
work, citizenship and life
— faculty recognized as preemi-nent by their students and peers
— alumni who are successful in 
their careers and in life and who are 
proud to be graduates of UF
— growth in scale and depth of 
basic and translational research and scholarship that enhances funda-mental knowledge and impacts the lives of the world’s citizens
— a physical infrastructure and 
efficient administration and support 
structure that enable preeminence
The draft goals will remain online 
until Aug. 7 for all to review. Any-
one who wishes to comment on the goals may do so on the webpage or by emailing goal-setting@ufl.edu.
The committee’s next step will 
be drafting objectives and metrics to determine how to accomplish these 
six goals.
“The wonderful part about all of 
this is that the university was already 
on what I call this trajectory of being stronger every year,” Fuchs said. “So all we’re doing is deciding how we can continue that and what it takes to get to the next level in terms of our international image.”Goal-setting task force outlines goals for next 5-10 years
HE SPENT SIX WEEKS IN SOUTH AFRICA 
WHERE HE SERVED THE DISH. 
By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org 
Parker Van Hart didn’t go to his friend and Grooveshark 
founder Josh Greenberg’s memorial service. 
Instead, Van Hart, 48, served people in South Africa with 
curry and business smarts. When Van Hart heard about his 
friend’s death, he cooked the curry he used to make at the now-defunct Tasty Buddha, a local favorite of Greenberg’s.  
“I made curry in his honor,” he said.
For the majority of the six-week study-abroad course, 
called Entrepreneurship & Empowerment in South Africa, 
Van Hart used what he learned as a UF entrepreneurship master’s student. He served as a consultant to South Afri-can entrepreneurs, along with other students from UF, Texas 
A&M, Oklahoma State University, University of Colorado and 
the University of the Western Cape.  
They worked with underprivileged and underserved busi-
nesses from June 7 until this past Saturday. Students like Van Hart created marketing plans, developed systems for main-
taining financial records and established an online presence.
“The students have to throw themselves into this,” said 
Michael Morris, a UF professor for the program.
The program isn’t just a study-abroad trip. Instead, he 
said the programs students set up can change an entrepre-
neur’s life.“The impact we have fundamentally matters in terms of 
(the entrepreneurs’) lives,” Morris said.
The businesses are in townships, which are impoverished 
communities that skirt major South African cities.
Instead of leaving once they’re successful, Van Hart said 
the entrepreneurs stay in their townships, where they can continue contributing to their communities.
Without a successful business, he said the entrepreneurs 
wouldn’t have enough money to live.
“We’re working with people who literally don’t have food 
to eat, and they’re building a business,” Van Hart said.
The townships that students served were made of tiny tin-
roof shacks that shook when someone moved.
In one, Van Hart said an entire family worked from dawn 
until dusk to send one child to school.
“This is not for the faint of heart,” Morris said.
As for the curry, “it was a big hit,” Van Hart said.UF entrepreneur serves curry in honor of Greenberg
“The students have to throw themselves into this.”
Michael Morris
UF professorJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF President Kent Fuchs speaks at the July 7 student town hall meeting to give background about the 
goal-setting task force.
TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Christina Bonfanti / Alligator 
Free Fallin’ 
Justice Sadler drops from the trees into the Suwannee River at Bob’s 
River Place on Sunday. Bob’s River Place, located in Branford, Florida, began with a single rope swing the owner built for his children. Now, the waterfront home has rope swings of different heights, ﬂ  oating docks, a slide and a karaoke stage.
By Patricia Potestades
Alligator Staff Writer
ppotestades@alligator.org
As a result of the Florida 
Legislature’s special session 
in June, the UF board of trust-ees Committee on Finance and Facilities made adjustments to 
several spending plans at their 
meeting Friday.
The special legislative ses-
sion ﬁ  nalized the appropria-tions for UF, and the committee approved amendments to its tentative budgets and to ﬁ  t the ﬁ  nal ﬁ  gures. 
The committee passed two appropriations-related agenda items unanimously with little 
discussion.
The ﬁ  rst item passed was an 
amendment to extend the years 
for funding requests for the En-gineering Nexus and Norman Hall remodeling projects, which did not receive requested fund-ing this legislative season.
The second item passed in-
cluded several changes to UF’s Facilities Spending Plan. 
The Engineering Nexus is 
now budgeted for $6 million, instead of the $25 million it was initially budgeted for. 
Maintenance, repair, reno-vations and remodeling was cut to about $14.1 million from its 
initial $18.6 million. 
The J. Wayne Reitz Union 
Career Resource Center re-
ceived $98,171 more than its initial $5.1 million budget. 
The UF Boiler System bud-
get remained the same at $7 million.
The Norman Hall Project 
was removed from the 2015-2016 spending plan because it did not receive funding.
The regular UF board of 
trustees meeting minutes scheduled for Friday were de-ferred.UF board of trustees adjusted 
spending plans for 2015-2016ADMINISTRATIONTHIS WAS THE FIRST TIME IT WAS 
HELD.
By Nina Cusmano
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Allie Munch’s New Year’s resolution was to run 
a 5K race every month for the entire year.
The 29-year-old inspired her sister Audra Burrell 
and friend Amanda Jamison to participate in the 
races with her. Unfortunately, Munch was unable to 
keep her resolution after a car accident at the begin-ning of July in Jacksonville fractured her pelvis and left her with 12 weeks of physical therapy.
The women originally planned to run the 5K Bull 
Run together Saturday in Newberry for this month’s race. Instead, Burrell and Jamison ran the 5K in Munch’s honor. Both women raced in T-shirts with “#Running4Allie” scrawled on the back.
Jamison has known the sisters since 2005. She 
met Munch in a class they had together at UF.
“It was her who started this. She was our main 
motivator to run,” Jamison said. “Now we will mo-tivate her to recovery.” 
This year was the ﬁ  rst time the Bull Run was 
held. Organized by the Gainesville Roller Rebels and inspired by Spain’s Running of the Bulls, derby women from the Gainesville Roller Rebels, dressed 
as bulls with horns adorning their helmets, chased race participants in their roller blades. Runners were 
asked to wear white, and “bulls” marked their shirts with a red permanent marker whenever they caught a runner. By the end of the race, many runners had shirts covered with red marks from the “bulls.”
Jessica Snyder, the race director who’s been in-
volved with the roller derby team for three years, serves as the head referee of the Gainesville Roller Rebels during their competitive matches known as “bouts.” Snyder, whose derby name is Jaded Jester, said last year they hosted a 5K, but it was not the same theme as this year.
“Not everyone can throw on skates and chase 
people, so we deﬁ  nitely thought it would be some-thing interesting that people would want to do,” she said.
The race was at Tioga Town Center and had 
about 200 runners and 35 “bulls.”
It raised about $800 for Peaceful Paths Domestic 
Abuse Network, according to Snyder.
Neither Burrell nor Jamison know when Munch 
will be running again, but they said they’ll be cross-ing their ﬁ  ngers that it will be soon. By the end of the race, ink from the “bulls’” red markers joined the hashtag in Munch’s honor on their shirts.GNV has own Running of the Bulls
“She was our main motivator to run. Now 
we will motivate her to recovery.”
Amanda Jamison
Friend of AllieThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialShooting on 
campus a small 
but scary matter
News of a shooting on campus is a guaranteed recipe 
for fear and trepidation in the nation’s heart, and even more so locally when news of the shooting is as close to home as Murphree Hall at UF.
Many of you readers know of the recent shooting, 
and if you don’t you should probably read about the matter on our front page. No one’s been hurt thankfully, and Uni-versity Police caught the suspect involved within minutes of the shooting. 
However, a shot was fired on campus, and as details slow-
ly trickle in, we’re in the same boat as many millennials who are viewing the incident in light of events like the Virginia Tech Massacre, the 2014 Isla Vista Killings and last year’s shootings at Florida State University. 
The thought of some maniac with a grudge and a gun 
snapping and letting loose a stream of bullets on campus is a very well-buried fear that exists in the minds of many college students. We can argue over letting students keep guns in their dorms, argue over keeping all guns off campus, and argue over how many university security officers are on duty, but the moment some maniac snaps and opens fire, someone’s probably getting hurt, and a lot of us are afraid of something like that at home.
Monday’s incident was insignificant and small compared 
to the horrific shootings mentioned earlier, with only a single shot fired into the air and a UPD officer within easy range of the altercation, but one inhabited window, a few more shots fired, one less officer in sight or an edge more killing intent and this story could have been much more harrowing.
We’re all thankful the matter was resolved as neatly as it 
was, without anyone harmed, but events do open questions as to how well protected we are going about our business on a college campus. Shootings like this tend to brook ar-guments over the gun debate whereupon people argue for or against letting students bring guns on campus for self-defense, or make college campuses a gun-free zone. Hell, as mentioned earlier, hiring more officers could be considered, but maniacs firing wantonly on a college campus isn’t an ev-eryday occurrence that throwing more officers at can neatly polish away.
Granted, we find it difficult to believe that adding more 
guns on campus will bring down the potential for gun-re-lated crimes or accidents, but there’s no arguing against the thoughts of some people feeling much safer with the ability to fight back in such a situation.
Likewise, making campuses gun-free zones could poten-
tially make campuses a massive target for opportunistic so-ciopaths or terrorists seeking an easy target with a population of several thousand unarmed civilians.
Increasing security officers across the board could be a so-
lution, but it’s frankly not economical for many universities that are already working with tight budgets.
Just how do you give peace of mind to a population of 
millions of students across the U.S.? What can you do to make it right? MTV Documentary addresses white privilege
When I first heard about MTV’s docu-
mentary about being white in Amer-ica, I was skeptical of how well the 
issue would be handled. But Jose 
Antonio Vargas’ “White People” 
pleasantly surprised me, spurring conversations that need to happen more often. 
Vargas hears out the misconceptions white 
people have and then addresses them with facts. 
Anyone who has even discussed applying for 
college hears tales of “reverse racism” and how no schol-arships exist for white people, or that people of color are 
“taking away their spot.” 
According to the documentary, whites are 40 percent 
more likely to receive scholarships than people of color. 
While the film addressed the fact that some people of 
color don’t get scholarships, it did not show how hurtful 
assumptions can be that their achievements are because 
of their race. 
In a college environment, people of color often have to 
hear that their accomplishments are not deserved based 
on their skin color. This is incredibly dismissive of their accom-
plishments, attributing all their success to a box checked off on a form, while at the same time 
implying that only white people have to work 
hard for their scholarships and university ac-ceptances. 
It also addresses the fact that discussions of 
racism often come off as more friendly when they come from a white person to other white people, with one student creating a white privi-
lege workshop to introduce his fellow students to the idea. 
Being cognizant of your white privilege does not mean 
being ashamed of being white. It just means knowing that white people have many unearned advantages. 
“White People” is a good introduction, showing that 
white people do have privilege, and it does not come off 
as confrontational. 
We often think of racial identity being linked to rac-
ism, which causes praise for “colorblindness” and for not 
speaking about racial issues at all. But racial identity can also be tied to privilege. 
Although some of the situations in the film feel un-
comfortable and artificial, it is only because honest and nuanced discussions of race are so rare. 
This documentary is just a starting point. It shows that 
racism needs to be discussed in order to address stereo-types and misconceptions. Obviously, since it is only an hourlong program, it couldn’t delve into the intricacies of race relations in the U.S., but it manages to examine whiteness as a separate identity, not as a default. “White 
People” gives those who never thought about their race an 
introduction to issues they may have felt uncomfortable talking about before.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her 
column appears on Tuesdays.Column
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
“Being cognizant of your 
white privilege does not 
mean being ashamed of being 
white. It just means knowing 
that white people have many 
unearned advantages.”TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7 
Letters to the EditorShootings around the country a tragedy
What occurred in Lafayette, Louisiana, 
was a tragedy. But what is occurring in its 
aftermath across the nation is simply atro-
cious and despicable. 
The events that have plagued this na-
tion too many times, from California to 
Colorado and South Carolina to Connecti-
cut, have now become normalized in the minds of our media, government and citi-zens. So much so that the Lafayette Theater 
Shooting did not even merit a mindful response and discussion in some of the 
morning talk shows and papers. 
It is sad that we have become so accus-
tomed to such tragic and heart-wrenching 
events that they do not even seem to in-
trude on the thoughts of the public.
Modern-day fears are characterized by 
terrorism, the economy and a long list of 
other issues; but my biggest fear is that the person sitting next to me or standing across the room might be the next mass shooter. 
I am scared that the person is in the 
same classroom as I, in the same shopping center or behind me in the movie theater. 
I have been to each and every city that a 
mass shooting has taken place in this state and many more cities around the country. 
One of those victims could have easily 
been a friend, a loved one or even me.I am not calling for gun law reform 
or mental health reform. I do not ask for new legislation or new action to take place 
right now. 
What I ask for first is a national self-
reflection and for every American citizen 
to ask themselves the question: “Do I want 
to live in a nation where this kind of thing 
is normal?”
Alfredo Ramirez
UF Hispanic Heritage Month Corporate Director
The Student Body demanded change in the Spring election. 
We turned out in record numbers 
because we believed Student Govern-ment could finally change. 
And we didn’t demand a change in just 
style or appearance. 
We voted because there was finally an op-
portunity to fundamentally change the way SG operates. 
For far too long, SG has been run by the few, for the 
few.
 Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines (Ac-
cess), her fellow executive officers, and like-minded senators such as Michael Christ (Graduate, Access), 
Nardin Derias (CALS, Access) and I are hard at work 
making sure the promises of reforming SG, stamping out corruption and improving student life are accom-plished. Of course, that’s going to upset the same 
backroom political operators that have run SG for generations. They’re kicking and scream-
ing because the students have finally had 
enough. 
We’re finally holding them accountable for 
raising our fees, wasting our money and steer-
ing positions and projects to their cronies. 
They’re doing their best to distract from 
the effort to reform. 
They use the two remaining branches they hold con-
trol over — the judicial and legislative — to logjam SG. The judicial branch refuses to perform its job. 
The legislative branch seems to think its only jobs 
are to rig the rules governing SG and launch political 
careers. 
My colleagues in the majority are not their own deci-
sion makers. 
They are given orders from the top. They’ve bought 
into the idea that serving themselves first and the stu-dents second is the right thing to do. 
There are a few honest brokers of compromise, but 
they are being drowned out by the chorus of corruption. 
The guardians of gridlock can continue to peddle in 
clever hashtags in the pursuit of their own political am-
bitions. 
We’ll continue to deliver the change that students 
have demanded. 
And we’ll ensure vital student services continue to 
be provided. 
Preston Jones
UF student senator (Hume, Access) and political sci-
ence sophomoreAccess Party working to give students the 
change they voted for in  Spring electionsGuest column
Preston Jones
Speaking OutTo ensure a Democratic victory in the 2016 presidential 
elections, Hillary Clinton must be approved as the par-ty’s nominee early on. The Republican Party’s lengthy list of presidential primary candidates diminishes the GOP’s ability to gain broad support. 
The resulting chaos within GOP ranks dilutes the party’s 
support, making it impossible for a single candidate to gain a substantial following. Fundamental disagreements over policy issues divide the Republican Party, and that could work to the Democratic Party’s advantage in November. 
To capitalize on the opposition’s shortcomings, it is impera-
tive that Democrats support Clinton as the Democratic nominee now.
The Republican Party is littered with presidential hopefuls 
competing for the party’s nomination. It is a headache to 
keep up with all of the candidates and to differentiate their messages from one another. 
Meanwhile, the Democratic Party only has two prominent 
contenders: Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders. Sanders is 
too progressive to appeal to centrist democrats and is not 
likely to win the nomination. Sanders is very aware of Clin-ton’s dominant position within the party, but he continues to stay in the race. 
He uses his campaign as a platform to provide a left-of-
center position to Clinton’s on campaign finance reforms, in-come inequality and trade. 
His candidacy makes the Democratic nomination process 
competitive rather than an automatic victory for Clinton. Al-
though I appreciate the inclusion of a far-left voice, I — like 
Sanders — know that Clinton will be the party’s presidential pick. 
This is not up for debate; it is inevitable. Therefore, I wish 
Sanders would exit the race before the primaries kick off. Sanders’ candidacy prevents Clinton from establishing broad support early on before the Republicans get their act together.
Instead of splitting the Democratic ticket, the party should 
throw its support behind Clinton to provide her with the nec-essary resources and support to combat Republican efforts in the general election. 
Clinton will need the full support of the Democratic party 
to outmaneuver the right’s vicious attacks. Therefore, it is imperative that she gain the support of progressives. Sanders must relinquish his control of the far left for the good of the party. 
His contributions to the Democratic dialogue are invalu-
able, but at this point, the party must be strategic. Engaging in a Democratic dialogue will not ensure a Democratic vic-tory. 
With her impressive credentials and tenure, Clinton is the 
clear choice for the nomination. Unfortunately for Sanders, this means “You’re out.”
Amy Kunert writes for Old Gold & Black, the student 
newspaper at Wake Forest University. A version of this col-
umn originally appeared on UWire.Presenting a united frontUWire
Amy Kunert
UWire
“W e're finally holding them 
accountable for raising our 
fees, wasting our money and 
steering positions and projects 
to their cronies. They're doing 
their best to distract from the 
effort to reform."
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
TOP RIGHT: Brenda Woods, owner of Woods Seafood in Jackson-
ville, scoops out boiled crab for customers at Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst Blue 
Crab Festival on Saturday. Save Our City Initiative and All Action Entertainment hosted the event in order to raise money for local programs.
BOTTOM RIGHT:  Pedro Cardona, a 29-year-old cook for Light My 
Fire Mobile Pizza Company, pulls out a freshly baked mini pizza from the oven during the Blue Crab Festival. In addition to eating crabs, event attendees could also rock climb, watch live perfor-mances and shop from clothing vendors.
BELOW: David Murphy, 39, digs into a box of crab meat from the 
Woods Seafood stand. Murphy drove down from Georgia to attend the Blue Crab Festival. He said it was worth the trip.TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff 
Arts and Drafts
Jenny Davis, a Gainesville resident and bartender at The Midnight Bar, 223 S. 
Main St., paints a watercolor tree on Sunday at “Arts and Drafts, ” an event that invited patrons to draw and paint pictures with art supplies provided by the bar.
Gainesville Throwbacks
July 26, 1977:
At least two UF colleges were in danger of losing their national accredi-tation following the implementation of the common course numbering 
system throughout the Florida State University System. Deans in the Col-
lege of Business Administration and the College of Journalism and Com-munications said the new system poses a serious threat to continued ac-creditation because it requires them to accept junior college-level courses 
for major credit despite the courses not being taught on the same level 
and possibly not being from an accredited institution.
July 28, 1987:
Two campus groups wanting to speak at Preview about rape were told by 
UF ofﬁ  cials there was not time in the schedule to do so, as has been the 
case for each of the past seven years. UF ofﬁ  cials said Preview focuses on academics and the “big four” concerns of parents — academic guidance, residence halls, meal plans and ﬁ  nancial security — which makes it dif-
ﬁ  cult to ﬁ  t non-academic speakers into the schedule. “They should hear 
from these groups now before they have to ﬁ  nd out by necessity,” one parent said. “Then it’s too late.”
July 26, 1994:
After a seven-year hiatus, Phi Mu sorority is moved back into its house on 
1150 E. Panhellenic Drive, a house it had to leave in 1987 because of low membership and ﬁ  nancial difﬁ  culties. Kathy Browning, Phi Mu’s national extension director, said the sorority and its alumni association has been 
working over the years with UF’s Panhellenic Council to re-establish the 
chapter on campus. “Our intentions were always to come back,” Brown-ing said. “We never sold the house.”
July 30, 2009: 
Classical music will be making the transition to National Public Radio 
programming on the UF-owned radio station WUFT-FM. The changes were made in part to give students more experience in broadcasting news while also bringing in money and listeners to the station, said then-UF 
College of Journalism and Communications Dean John Wright. “The idea 
is for students to leave this college and be ahead of the learning curve,” Wright said.
— Jordan McPhersonTUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Furnished 2BR/2BA w/walk-in closets avail. in 4BR/4BA at Countryside. Rent $400/rm/mo. Utilities, cable, internet, and washer/dryer included. Mature, coed roommates. Bus rts. 9, 35. Call 786-385-2839 7-30-12-1
2 bedroom apt for rent, 10 minutes from campus. Nice community. Furnished. Asking $585. First month down. No central heat/AC, no pets, no smoking/drinking/drugs. Grad stu-dent preferred. Call Mr. Parker 352-213-5942    8-2-15-5-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    8-6-15-8-1
Countryside 4000 SW 23rd St, Furnished,  pool view,  bus lines 9 & 35, $385/room/mo. Yr lease, $250 dep, $150 elec allow. Cable & Internet incl, studious-nonsmoking. Not a party place. No pets. Bonus avail. for bring -
ing roommates. 4 rooms avail (1 now & 3 Aug 4th). Call 941 661 7865 lv. msg    8-17-15-7-1
FIRST TWO MONTHS FREE!At Cabana Beach 1601 SW 51st Terrace $499/mo. (utilities included). Female room-mate only. Private bedroom and bathroom. Furnished. Plenty of Amenities. Offer only available through a 1 yr- sublease with us. Calll Maria (352)4547805         7-28-15-3-1DONT LIVE AT THE WRONG PLACE
Countryside at the University
4000 SW 23rd St.
4BR/4BA. Excellence for student achieve -
ment at UF. Individual lease. $395.
Call for details Bristol Park Realty
Phone 352-367-2669 or 
bristolparkmanagement.com
All applications in person
rich@bristolparkrealty.com
8-28-15-11-1
Fully Renovated 4/2 Apartments@ University Commons $449/room. Includes new kitchen appliances, granite counter tops, porcelain tile, new furniture, cable, internet, and utilities. Call Tony at 352-284-3131    8-6-15-5-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
7-30-15-30-2
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATION
Fall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2
4BR/4BA COUNTRYSIDE at the University condo. Furnished common area, plenty of free parking, next to pool, near bus rte. $350/mo/room. Includes all utils, cable, internet. Call 561-718-7637 or 561-582-1031   7-30-15-13-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
2/2 &4/3 apt homes. Starting at $1175. 
Parking included. Walking distance to UF & 
Stadium. Now leasing for Fall.
For info call 352-872-4644
www.alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
8-17-15-12-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
2/2 & 4/3 apt. homes. Starting at $1175.
Parking included.
Walking distance to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
8-17-15-9-2
5 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep 
entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-2
5BR/3BA HOUSE Near Law School
Tile floors, big yard. Avail Aug 1st. $1800/mo. Call 352-258-0025    8-4-15-4-2Avail 4 bdrm Houses/Rooms!Rent House or Room
2635 W Univ $1500
305 NW 28th $1800
call Eric 352-6827424     8-17-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Looking for college student or young profes-sional to share furn. 2BR/2BA, 2 story condo (Woods Edge) Quiet complex on residential St.between Mall & UF $500/mo + Util. Avail. Aug. 1 Text 352-281-1891 or 352-262-2248 8-4-15-4-5
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-17-15-14-7
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real EstateTUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-1298 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
DELIVERY DRIVER
The Independent Florida Alliagtor is looking 
for a VERY DEPENDABLE route driver
Early morning route, five days per week*
Starting in August 2015
(*Publication days vary according to the 
University of Florida class schedule.)
Applicant must have reliable transportation 
and be able to transport
multiple bundles of newpapers.
The route takes approximately 2 hours and 
includes drops along Newberry Road west 
to Jonesville, Tower Road, and along SW 
20th Ave. as well as some on Archer Road
Please inquire and apply in person at
1105 West University Avenue.
Monday through Friday
between 8am & 4pm.
No calls please.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-17-15-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Gestational Surrogate Needed
to carry our embryo, no egg or sperm dona -
tion required. 1 yr living expenses covered. Text for additional information 305-582-9800    
8-28-15-24-14
DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, withgood customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
Work and Make Cat Furniture and do it Well. 
and Make Real Good Money. Students pre-ferred, not required. Earn over $12+ per hour after first couple months. Molly and Friends. See Ron 337-1535, 1030 SE 4th St.  7-30-15-9-14
Wanted. Energetic, hard working fitness mind-ed individual to sell high quality merchandise at Gainesville's longest standing  (39 years and counting) LOCAL Sporting Goods store. Apply in person only, full or part time position will be entertained for the right individual. Lloyd Clarke Sports  1504 NW 13th St    8-25-15-10-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.     7-30-15-7-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Oaks Veterinary HospitalHIRING Receptionists & TechsLooking for hardworking pre-vets who are willing to learn        Experience a plusSend resume to oaksvet@gmail.com    7-30-15-5-14
Gator Dining Serviceslocated on the University of Florida Campus, is now hiring  part-time cashiers, baristas, line cooks, servers and utility positions for the Fall Semester. We over flexible sched-ules, competitive pay, and a great working environment. Those interested in joining this dynamic team can apply on line at www.ga-tordining.com, no paper application are ac-cepted. EEO/Drug free Workplace.
Aramark is an EQUAL EMPLOYMENT 
OPPORTUNITY/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION employer. Candidates are considered for employment with Aramark without regard to their race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, gender, pregnancy, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic informa-tion, military status, protected veteran status or other classification protected by applica -
ble federal, state or local law    8-17-15-9-14
p/t office/home cleaner needed if interested please contact Caleitha@352-214-0868..must own a reliable car and be able to pass a background/drug test.. paying $8/hr    7-30-5-14Full-time Preschool/Kindergarten Assistant Teacher at Millhopper Montessori SchoolFull-time Assistant Preschool/Kindergarten teacher. Benefits available, 401k included. Please email mmschool@millhopper.com    7-30-15-5-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring Bartenders/Deli Help. Accepting applications at both 5156 S W 34th St and 2327 N W 13th St locations. Must have reliable transporta-tion and some daytime availability.    7-30-15-3-14
Chef/Cook Wanted.
Looking for a cook to work 9-5 Monday 
through Friday. For more information please 
email gainesvillecook@gmail.com    8-17-
15-5-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible Hours!
Positions Available:
Event Supervisor, Warehouse Staff, Cook
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
8-17-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-15-25-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-15-25-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service24 hrs a day. Reservations available.Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-
time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing 
available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   
10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoatna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Sherlockians
interested in joining with others so inclined in a new, online scion society, please send email ASAP to ceb221b@gmail.com.    9-1-15-15-19
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!Rated 5-Star on Google Play!Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21RED'S TAVERN Mon.-Free Pool, Tue.-Bike 
Night, Wed.-Ladies Night, Thur.-Men's Night, 
Fri.-Karaoke, Sat.-Open Mike Sun.-Free 
Pool/$1 PBR Drafts Get 1 free House draft w/ Student ID. HWY 27 Ft White 352-339-6978 8-17-5-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 EntertainmentHeadline
Story description Pg#TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Former Gator Preston Tucker 
has been heating up with the Houston Astros and has nine home runs on the year. Read the story on pg. 16. Alligator Awards
Pick up the Alligator on Thursday to read us debate the UF's Best Male Athlete of 2014-15 and voteonline at www.alligator.org/sportsJAY-NARD BOSTWICK 
GRANTED RELEASE FROM 
FOOTBALL PROGRAM.
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
With the Gators opening Fall 
camp on Aug. 6, three current 
players are facing off-the-ﬁ  eld le-
gal issues. 
Florida defensive tackle Caleb 
Brantley and running back Adam 
Lane were cited for leaving Splitz 
Bowling Alley without paying 
their tabs. 
According to an Alachua Coun-
ty Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce warrant afﬁ  da-vit, Lane and Brantley arrived at 
Splitz on July 4 around 8:55 p.m. 
and left around 9:45 p.m. without paying their tabs for food. 
Both players were charged with 
defrauding an innkeeper of un-der $300, a second-degree misde-meanor. 
According to UF football 
spokesman Steve McClain, the 
program has been “aware of the 
situation for some time” and “it has been dealt with.” 
Bailey arrested in Tampa: UF 
wide receiver Alvin Bailey was ar-rested in Tampa on Saturday on an outstanding warrant for failing to appear in court on a May misde-meanor citation for driving with a suspended or revoked license. The 20-year-old former Arm-
wood standout had been cited on May 12 for his second offense of driving with a suspended license, and a warrant was issued for his arrest on June 9 when he missed his scheduled arraignment in court.As a redshirt freshman last sea-
son, Bailey recorded no statistics and played primarily on special teams. 
Bostwick granted release 
from UF: The Gators have grant-ed redshirt sophomore defensive tackle Jay-nard Bostwick his re-lease from the football program.
Bostwick missed Spring prac-
tice with what Florida head coach Jim McElwain described as per-sonal issues.
The Port St. Lucie native ap-
peared in ﬁ  ve games for UF in 2014, registering three tackles in-cluding one in Florida’s 28-20 Bir-mingham Bowl victory over East 
Carolina.
Bostwick was one of three 
Gators suspended for the ﬁ  rst 
game of last season by former UF 
head coach Will Muschamp for a 
violation of team rules.
Following his commitment to 
the Gators, former UF defensive backs coach Travaris Robinson 
said that Bostwick was “a tremen-
dous player”.
“He is really talented,” Robin-
son said. “He’s got a great, great 
family who is supportive of him 
and wants him to do well.”
Bostwick is free to transfer to 
another school. 
Gators compete at ITA Summer Circuit
UF sophomore Chase Perez-Blanco and redshirt sophomore Josh Wardell 
defeated fellow-Gator Elliot Orkin and Georgia T ech's Cole Fiegel, 7-5, to win the doubles title of the Gainesville regional of the ITA Summer Circuit. Perez-Blanco and Orkin will compete today for the singles title. Alligator File Photo
Adam Lane rushes into the end zone for a touchdown during Florida's 28-20 win against East Carolina 
in the Birmingham Bowl at Legion Field on Jan. 3. 
Three Gators facing legal issues as Fall camp approaches
TORRES TELLS IT
Junior Seau was one of the best linebackers in the his-tory of the NFL. 
His ability and his lon-
gevity were something that 
amazed his peers in the sport. 
He played for 20 seasons, 
which is an achievement in itself because the average NFL player is out of the league within three years.
His statistics and accomplishments 
speak for themselves.
Seau had 545 tackles, 56.5 career sacks 
and 18 interceptions. He was a 12-time 
Pro Bowler, an eight-time First Team All-
Pro selection, a two-time Second Team 
All-Pro selection, the 1992 NFL Defensive Player of the Year and he was named to the NFL’s 1990s All-Decade Team.
Seau retired after the 2009 season and 
he was more than deserving of being a ﬁ  rst-ballot Hall of Famer.
People would have ﬂ  ocked see Seau 
speak at his induction ceremony consid-ering the memorable speech he gave after his initial retirement following the 2005 season.
He would go on to play four 
more seasons before hanging the cleats up for good, but in 2012 Seau's legacy was redeﬁ  ned.
Fans of the San Diego Char-
gers, Miami Dolphins and the New England Patriots — the 
three teams Seau played for — wouldn’t get to hear Seau make his Hall of Fame 
speech. 
On May 2, Seau committed suicide by 
shooting himself in the chest.
His suicide sent shockwaves through-
out the NFL and it affected all who knew 
him and played with him. 
There were warning signs, but his for-
mer teammates and colleagues dismissed 
them. 
I remember watching ESPN in 2012, 
shortly after Seau’s death, and seeing his 
former teammate Marcellus Wiley over-Let family speak at Seau inductionGATORS IN THE PROS
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
Since the start of NBA free agency on 
July 9, several former UF players have been traded or ﬁ  nalized contracts with pro-fessional basketball organizations. 
The Cleveland Cavaliers traded former 
Gator Mike Miller to the Portland Trail Blazers on Sunday for a trade exception. 
The Cavaliers had been looking to trade 
the $10.5-million expiring contract of Bren-dan Haywood for a trade exception before 
his deal became guaranteed on Aug. 1, and 
they found a willing taker in the Trail Blaz-ers.
Portland also received two second-
round draft picks in 2019 and 2020 along with Miller and Haywood for creating the exception. 
Miller is expected to negotiate a buyout 
and is free to sign with another NBA fran-chise. 
The trade sending David Lee to the Bos-
ton Celtics was ﬁ  nalized Monday, allow-
ing the former ﬁ  rst round NBA draft pick a 
chance to return to a starting rotation.
Lee lost his role as starting power for-
ward on the Golden State Warriors after he suffered a hamstring injury in training 
camp. 
Draymond Green ﬂ  ourished in Lee’s ab-
sence and supplanted him as the starter be-
fore securing a ﬁ  ve-year contract extension 
worth $85 million. 
Matt Bonner agreed to return to the San 
Antonio Spurs, signing a one-year contract 
worth approximately $1.5 million.
Bonner rejoins a Spurs organization that 
has put together arguably the strongest off-
season in team history with the signing of 
LaMarcus Aldridge, the re-signing of Kawhi 
Leonard to a maximum contract and the re-
turn of Tim Duncan and Manu Ginobili. Former Gators traded, 
sign contracts overseas
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIII
SEE PROS,  PAGE 14 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
David Ross had himself an inning he’ll nev-
er forget Sunday. 
The former Gator and current Chicago Cubs 
backup catcher took the mound down 11-4 
and threw a perfect ninth inning against the Philadelphia Phillies — inducing a fly out and two ground outs. 
But Ross wasn’t done there.The 38-year-old crushed his first home run 
of the year to lead off the bottom half of the inning, sending Cubs fans at Wrigley Field into a frenzy. Though Ross’ efforts came in an 11-5 
loss, it was a high note for the veteran’s down 
season. 
In his 14th big league season with his sev-
enth different team, Ross is hitting just .185 in 
92 at-bats. But on the bright side, the perfect 
inning was the second of his career — the other coming May 9 against the Milwaukee Brewers. Ross’ catching career may be wind-ing down, but maybe there’s a future for him 
on the mound. 
Preston Tucker’s bat has been scorching as 
July comes to a close. Last Wednesday, Tucker 
blasted two home runs in a Houston Astros 4-2 
win over the Boston Red Sox. 
In his last six games, the 25-year-old out-
fielder has hit .346 with four dingers and six 
RBIs, boosting his season average to .262. 
Tucker’s nine home runs this season is 
second among American League rookies. His sweet lefty swing has helped propel the Astros to go 5-2 over their last seven games, as they currently own the top wild card spot in the 
American League. 
Just a day before Tucker’s two bombs, an-
other former Gator made his MLB debut in the 
same series. 
Left-handed pitcher Brian Johnson tossed 
4.1 innings for the Red Sox in his first start, al-lowing four earned runs on three hits and four walks against the Astros on July 21. Johnson, 24, took the loss and was subsequently sent back down to the AAA-level Pawtucket Red Sox. 
Though Johnson and Tucker didn’t face 
each other in the game, Johnson’s 2.73 ERA in 16 starts with Pawtucket this season suggests he’ll be back in Boston again.
Since hitting the game-winning pinch-hit 
home run in the eighth inning of a Nationals’ 5-3 victory over the Dodgers on July 17, Matt den Dekker’s bat has gone silent. The 27-year-old outfielder has spiraled in a 3-for-24 skid in 
nine games since, and his season average now 
sits at a lackluster .184. 
Despite being known as more of a defen-
sive player patrolling the outfield, den Dekker will need to rack up more hits if he wants to 
maintain his steady playing time of late, as he 
has just six base hits through 34 at-bats in 14 games this month.
While Mike Zunino’s 2015 campaign with 
the Seattle Mariners has been atrocious, the 24-year-old backstop is showing steady signs of life lately. 
Zunino is riding a six-game hit streak in 
which he’s gone 9-for-20 (.450) with four RBI. 
Though he’s still hitting .215 in July and just 
.179 on the season, it’s an encouraging sign for Seattle and Zunino. 
After destroying pitching in the New York-
Penn League by hitting .379 with two home runs and four RBI in seven games, Harrison Bader was quickly promoted to the Peoria Chiefs, the St. Louis Cardinals’ A-level minor league team. 
Bader, 21, hasn’t hit for much power with 
the Chiefs — 0 home runs in 67 at-bats — but he’s hitting a respectable .269 with seven sto-len bases in 17 games since July 7. 
Richie Martin, Oakland’s first-round pick in 
2015, got off to a hot start with the Athletics’ class-A short season Vermont Lake Monsters but has since cooled off. 
His season batting average dipped from 
above .300 to .253, as he’s in the middle of a 4-for-30 skid in his first 21 games as a pro. 
Nick Calathes is returning to 
Panathinaikos B.C., the Greek 
team where Calathes played the 
first three years of his career be-
fore playing the previous two sea-
sons for the Memphis Grizzlies. 
Terms of Calathes’ deal were 
not disclosed but it is confirmed to 
be a three-year contract. 
While Patric Young had an-
nounced via Twitter he was at-
tempting an NBA comeback, it 
now appears he will join Calathes 
in Greece. 
Young announced on Twit-
ter he had signed a contract with Olympiacos B.C. for next season 
after playing the majority of last 
season with Galatasaray S.K. in 
Turkey. 
After going undrafted in the 
2014 NBA Draft, Young played for the New Orleans Pelicans during 
Summer League and made  the 
team’s 15-man roster before the 
start of the season. Being the fourth center in the 
Pelicans lineup limited Young's 
minutes and he was released on 
Nov. 30, 2014. 
The former Southeastern Con-
ference Defensive Player of the 
Year didn't appear in a regular-
season game for the Pelicans. 
Casey Prather is heading to 
Australia to continue his career with the Perth Wildcats. 
The former Gator spent last 
season playing in the NBA Devel-
opmental League with the Bakers-
field Jam. 
Prather had hoped to secure a 
training camp invite with an NBA 
team this season by playing for the 
D-League Select team during Sum-mer League, but he left without 
receiving an invite. 
Alex Tyus continued his steady 
overseas career by inking a con-
tract with Turkey’s Anadolu Efes 
for one season. 
Tyus has been a solid low-post 
option overseas since he entered the Euroleague in 2012. 
He previously played in Israel for Maccabi Tel-Aviv under head 
coach David Blatt, who is current-
ly the head coach of the Cleveland 
Cavaliers. 
Tyus will be joined in Turkey 
by former Gator Erving Walker, 
who signed a one-year contract to 
play for Buyukcemece next sea-son. 
Walker had previously spent 
last season playing for JDA Dijon 
Basket in the French League.
The most recent former Gators 
are awaiting word on where they’ll 
continue their careers. 
After playing with the War-
riors in Summer League, Michael 
Frazier II is hoping for a training 
camp invite from an NBA team. 
Frazier didn’t have the stron-
gest showing during the Summer League, going 0-for-11 from be-
hind the three-point line. 
Chris Walker played with the 
Houston Rockets during the Sum-
mer League and he is examining 
options on where to continue his 
professional basketball career. 14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015
AP Photo
Houston Astros' Preston Tucker rounds the bases after hitting a solo home run in the 
third inning of a game against the Kansas City Royals on Friday. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Casey Prather drives into the paint during Florida's 62-52 win against Dayton on March 29, 2014. 
GATORS IN THE MLB
Tucker closing July on fire
PROS,  from pg 13Tyus, Walker will play in TurkeyThe Associated Press
Boston’s bid to host the 2024 
Olympics is over.
The city and the U.S. Olympic 
Committee severed ties after a board 
teleconference Monday, ending an 
effort that was troubled nearly from 
the moment it started.
The decision throws the bid pro-
cess — and hopes that the U.S. will host another Olympics — into flux. Only seven weeks remain before cit-ies have to be officially nominated. USOC CEO Scott Blackmun said the federation wants to stay in the race. 
If so, Los Angeles would be the like-
ly choice.
Blackmun said the bid leaders 
still felt Boston could deliver a great Olympics.
“They also recognize, however, 
that we are out of time if the USOC is going to be able to consider a bid from another city,” Blackmun said. 
“As a result, we have reached a 
mutual agreement to withdraw Bos-ton’s bid.”
The Boston bid soured within 
days of its beginning in January, beset by poor communication and an active opposition group that kept public support low. It also failed to get — and keep — the support of 
key politicians.
Earlier Monday, Boston Mayor 
Marty Walsh announced he would 
not be pressured into signing the host city contract that puts the city on the hook for any cost overruns. 
Gov. Charlie Baker had been 
unwilling to pledge his support, waiting instead to see a full report 
from a consulting group that wasn’t 
scheduled to be complete until next month.
The chairmen of No Boston 
Olympics released a statement, and planned a celebration at a Boston pub later Monday.
“We need to move forward as a 
city, and today’s decision allows us 
to do that on our own terms, not the 
terms of the USOC or the IOC,” the statement said. “We’re better off for having passed on Boston 2024.”
Boston 2024 chairman Steve Pa-
gliuca portrayed the move as a joint decision made “in order to give the Olympic movement in the United States the best chance to bring the Games back to our country in 2024.”
The United States hasn’t hosted 
a Summer Olympics since the At-lanta Games in 1996, or any Olym-pics since the Salt Lake City Winter Games in 2002. That timing, along with the USOC’s vastly improved relationship with its international partners, made this look like a race that was America’s to lose, even against world-class cities such as Rome and Paris.
But the USOC also showed its 
uncanny knack for shooting itself in the foot, no matter who’s in charge. Political missteps and ham-handed campaigning marred the last two 
U.S. bids — New York and Chica-
go each finished an embarrassing fourth for the 2012 and 2016 Games, respectively. The USOC stayed out of the 2020 race to be sure it got things right for 2024. Instead, the federation didn’t even make it to the international phase of the competi-tion before running into trouble.There’s still time, though, to save 
face if chairman Larry Probst and Blackmun make quick phone calls 
to leaders in Los Angeles, includ-
ing Mayor Eric Garcetti and agent/power broker Casey Wasserman. Garcetti released a statement saying he’d had no contact with the USOC, but was willing to talk.
“I would be happy to engage in 
discussions with the USOC about how to present the strongest and 
most fiscally responsible bid on be-
half of our city and nation,” Garcetti said.
Los Angeles hosted the 1932 and 
1984 Olympics. It was viewed as the safest, but maybe not the sexi-est, choice. Now, it appears to be the only choice if the USOC is go-ing to stay in the game. While it’s a familiar pick, the city has experi-
enced Olympic leadership, several 
venues already in place and far less entrenched opposition.
Boston’s initial bid team talked 
a big game, but made empty prom-ises. Recently released documents show organizers underestimated the amount of opposition and down-played the possibility of a statewide 
referendum on the games.
Most of that bid team was re-
placed, though the new team, led by 
Pagliuca, didn’t fare much better. Their new plan took a blowtorch to the popular idea of a compact, walk-able Olympics, instead spreading venues around the metro area and the state. There was no firm plan 
for a media center, considered one 
of the biggest projects at any games. And claims — backed by an intri-cate and confusing set of insurance policies — that the public wouldn’t be on the hook for the multibillion-dollar sports event never gained traction.
Walsh’s announcement at a 
quickly arranged news conference Monday reflected that.
“I will not sign a document that 
puts one dollar of taxpayers’ money on the line for one penny of over-runs on the Olympics,” he said.
Poll numbers that were in the 
30s moved into the 40s, but didn’t show many signs of improving any-
time soon.
Baker’s endorsement might have 
helped, but the governor, whose 
Jan. 8 inauguration was overshad-owed by the same-day announce-ment of Boston as the USOC’s pick, never signed on. He spoke with USOC leaders Monday and told them he’d do things on his own 
timeline.
“I don’t feel like I was strong-
armed or bullied in any way,” he 
said after the announcement was made.
His position, combined with 
Walsh’s news conference Monday, set the stage for a difficult decision that many insiders felt the board 
should have made several weeks 
ago.TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
U.S. Olympic Committee ends Boston bid for 2024 Olympics
AP Photo
Boston Mayor Martin Walsh, pictured second from right, announced Monday he would not be 
pressured into signing the host city contract that puts the city on the hook for any cost overruns. 
Los Angeles is a possible replacement16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2015
AP Photos
ABOVE: 
Luisa Seau, Junior Seau's mother, wipes her eyes during a ceremony to retire Seau's No. 55 uniform. 
LEFT: 
Junior Seau stands with his daughter, Sydney, at his induction into the San Diego Chargers Hall of Fame.
come with emotion when speak-
ing about Seau.
Wiley recalled how he talk-
ed with Seau in 2010 after Seau drove his SUV off of a cliff.
When asked if he had attempt-
ed to commit suicide, Seau said 
he had fallen asleep behind the 
wheel. 
That crash might’ve been a 
sign that something was troubling 
Seau. 
After his suicide, his family donated his brain to the National Institute of Health to try and see if they could find out what was 
haunting Seau. 
The NIH released a statement 
in January 2013 saying that Seau 
suffered from chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE).
CTE is a brain disease caused 
by repeated hits to the head, and 20 years of constantly hitting op-posing running backs and quar-
terbacks took a toll on Seau.
In January, Seau was selected 
as a member of the 2015 Pro Foot-
ball Hall of Fame class. Even though he wouldn’t be 
there in person to speak, his fam-ily — more specifically his daugh-
ter, Sydney — would speak on 
Seau’s behalf.
But on July 24, the Pro Foot-
ball Hall of Fame said that Seau’s family wouldn’t be able to speak 
during his induction.
The committee might be afraid 
of Sydney saying something nega-
tive about the NFL and the ongo-
ing lawsuit on concussions since 
Seau is a part of it.
But Sydney has said that she 
doesn’t plan on mentioning any-thing about CTE in her speech. 
She just wants to honor her fa-
ther for what he accomplished on 
the gridiron, not what transpired 
off the field.
What’s been the committee’s 
response?
They cite a policy that was 
first implemented in 2011 when former Los Angeles Rams player Les Richter had no one speak on his behalf when he was enshrined 
because he had died a year ear-
lier. 
The policy eliminates speeches 
by those on behalf of deceased players. 
It’s a policy that’s a complete 
joke and should be changed. 
It was Seau’s wish to have 
Sydney introduce him before giv-ing his speech in Canton, Ohio.
Instead, the committee will be 
doing a five-minute video tribute 
to Seau, compared to the stan-
dard three-minute tribute. 
Though Seau isn’t going to be 
there, the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame committee has until Aug. 8 
to do the right thing.
Let Sydney speak and have 
Seau's voice be heard. COLUMN,  from pg 13Seau suffered from a brain disease caused by hits to the head 