We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 143 TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015
By Cyanne Dunn
Alligator Staff Writer
cdunn@alligator.org
If you call the Freedom From 
Religion Foundation and get put 
on hold, you’ll hear a jaunty tune 
that sounds like it came from a 
wholesome 1950s TV show.
“We’ve got to ﬁ  ght the battle 
of church and state, church and 
state…”
The national organization, 
which advocates for the separa-
tion of church and state as the song says, has turned its attention 
to UF.
After receiving a photo of a Bi-
ble verse etched onto an archway 
at the newly constructed Heav-
ener Hall, Freedom From Religion 
Foundation staff attorney Andrew Seidel wrote a letter to UF Presi-dent Kent Fuchs on April 13 pro-
testing the religious text.
“It’s a violation of the First 
Amendment of the Constitution, 
and we think that’s the deﬁ  nition 
of a big deal,” Seidel said.
The quote reads, “He has 
showed you, O man, what is 
good. And what does the Lord require of you? To act justly and 
love mercy and to walk humbly 
with your God. Micah 6:8.”
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
would not comment on the letter 
but emailed a statement saying, 
“The University of Florida is com-mitted to complying with the laws that apply to public institutions. We are carefully reviewing the 
letter received late Monday from the Freedom from Religion Foun-
dation.”
According to Seidel’s  letter, 
having the quote on a building owned by a public university vio-
lates several decisions by the Su-
preme Court.
“The Supreme Court has said 
time and again that the ‘First 
Amendment mandates govern-
ment neutrality between religion and religion, and between religion and nonreligion,’” Seidel said in the letter. “Public schools, as a 
part of the government, may not 
promote, endorse, or advance any religion.”
Jarvis Henderson, one of the 
founders of and a campus min-ister at Campus Alive, said he thinks the verse is an excellent or-namentation for the building.
“It’s something that’s moti-
Three questions for the UF baseball 
team heading into the ﬁ  nal stretch
Read the column, pg 13
Player One: Hungrybox
Read about UF’s own video game celebrity, pg 5.
Meth lab found in local man’s car
Two men were arrested on charges of drug possession after 
police found two “one-pot” meth labs, pg 3.ONLINE
Four years ﬁ  nds a UF student working on his 
chemical engineering degree — and his drag act. Watch the video about Nicki Mirage online.
Alligator Staff
The Southwest Eighth Avenue Connector will enhance access to the SWAG Center for the surround-
ing neighborhoods. This will help the surrounding community — considered a food desert by the U.S. Department of Agriculture — because the nearest grocery store is about a 25-minute bus ride away.By Carla Vianna
Alligator Staff Writer
cvianna@alligator.org
Most Gainesville residents don’t 
worry about reaching the closest 
grocery store.
But for residents in Linton Oaks 
who depend on public transit, it’s 
about a 25-minute bus ride — or a 
50-minute walk — to the nearest grocery store.
Linton Oaks is one of seven low-
income neighborhoods that create a pocket of food deserts in Alachua County. Located west of Interstate 75 and east of Tower Road, the area is classiﬁ  ed as a food desert by the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture for 
its limited access to fresh, healthy and affordable food. Now, the USDA is replacing the term food desert with “low access and low income” areas.
The Southwest Advocacy Group 
Family Resource Center, a nonproﬁ  t center located inside Linton Oaks, 
works to bridge that gap by pro-
viding healthy food options to the seven neighborhoods: Linton Oaks, Majestic Oaks Apartments, Tower Oaks Glen, Holly Heights, Gordon Manor, Hidden Oaks and Harbor Cove Apartments.
In 2014, the Alachua County 
Commission approved a project to 
build a road that will connect the four neighborhoods directly west of 
Linton Oaks to its facilities, which include the resource center and a new, full-service health clinic.
That road, however, won’t be 
built for another two to three years, said Ruth Findley, the project man-ager.
And without a change in bus 
routes, the nearest grocery store will continue to be a 25-minute bus ride or a 50-minute walk away.
Across the I-75 overpass, within 
a mile east of Linton Oaks, are Can-opy Apartments and Cabana Beach.
“It is right here in our backyard,” 
said Tony Delisle, a UF health edu-cation and behavior adjunct pro-fessor and SWAG Board chairman since 2013.
The housing units around Linton 
Oaks were built at a time when the county was more lenient toward 
code enforcements, he said.
Buildings were built with cheap 
material, County Commissioner 
Robert Hutchinson said, adding County struggles to ﬁ  nd food desert solution
SEE FOOD DESERT,  PAGE 8
CAMPUS Bible verse stirs up controversy 
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
The Gator Nation will lose a 
hard-working and dedicated ad-
ministrator in May.
Bernard Mair, associate pro-
vost for Undergraduate Affairs and professor of mathematics, will leave UF to be dean of the 
College of Arts and Sciences at 
Howard University in Washing-ton, D.C.
He said he was honored to be 
chosen, and he’s looking forward 
to working at a new school with a 
rich history.
Mair will start at Howard Uni-
versity on May 11.Born in Jamaica, he earned de-
grees from the University of the 
West Indies in Kingston, Jamaica, 
and Ph.D. from 
McGill Univer-sity in Montreal.
He came to 
UF in 1989 and has held visiting professorships at Dartmouth 
College and Em-
ory University. 
He served as associate chair 
and graduate coordinator in the UF Department of Mathematics as 
well as the co-director of the UF Center for Applied Mathematics Associate provost moves 
on, UF says goodbye 
SEE MAIR,  PAGE 4SEE BIBLE,  PAGE 4
Mair
“You talk about food desert,” she 
said. “It’s just kind of a desert — 
for everything.”
Leslie Stewart
resident, Linton Oaks
It’s on a UF building
Key
Maa & Paa Grocery Store
6410 SW 8th Ave
Gainesville, Florida
SWAG Family Resource Center
807 SW 64th T errace
Gainesville, Florida
      Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 143
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
emichelle@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, T aylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,    
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  T ori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie T eer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Fernanda Martinez,   
  T akashi Wickes
Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqLocal Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF DNA Day Celebration
Take a break from studying 
today and visit the first UF 
campus celebration of DNA 
Day from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. on the Reitz Union North Lawn. The UF Genetics Institute and 
Genetics Club have partnered 
with other student organiza-tions and faculty laboratories to host interactive genetics and genomics activities. Smash 
some fruit and extract their 
DNA at the Genetics Club’s minilab or participate in a campus DNA art project. Visit 
dna.ufgi.ufl.edu for more de-
tails on the UF DNA Day event and photo contest.
Fulbright Days
The UF International Center will be hosting Fulbright Days during the month of April. Sponsored by the U.S. 
Department of State, the 
Fulbright program provides funding for students, scholars and faculty for graduate study and advanced research in 
various regions of the world. 
There will be two informa-tion sessions today on the U.S. Students Program, one at 9:35 
a.m. at the UF International 
Center and one at 12:55 p.m. on the third floor of the Student Health Care Center. The infor-mation session for faculty will 
be Thursday from 1 to 3 p.m. 
at the International Center. For more information, please visit ufic.ufl.edu/Fulbright/index.
html.
Finals Relaxation Week at 
Library West
Today from 3 to 4 p.m., Orion 
the service dog will be on the 
first, second and third floors of Library West. Wednesday from noon to 2 p.m. there will 
be chair massages in Room 
212. Thursday from 5 to 6 p.m. there will be pizza and out-door fun outside Library West.
Celebrate Earth Day at the 
Matheson MuseumBegin your Earth Day celebra-tion with Green Drinks at the 
Matheson History Museum 
tonight from 6 to 9 p.m. Light refreshments will be served in the botanical gardens behind the museum starting at 6 p.m. 
Sip some of Gainesville’s finest wine and beer while brows-
ing more than 100 varieties of 
native Florida plants on self-
guided tours of Sweetwater Park. Following drinks in the garden, there will be a screen-ing of the award-winning doc-
umentary “Earth Days.” This 
film traces the evolution of the modern environmental move-ment through the stories of the 
era’s pioneers, including for-
mer Secretary of the Interior Stewart Udall, biologist Paul Ehrlich, Whole Earth Catalog founder Stewart Brand, Apollo 
9 astronaut Rusty Schweickart 
and renewable energy pioneer Hunter Lovins. Cinema Verde will offer beer, wine and re-
freshments for donations. 
Tickets are $10 for students and seniors and $12 for the general public.
Robotics Demonstrations at UF
Robot demo day at UF will in-clude demonstrations of about a dozen robots built by students 
in this semester’s Intelligent 
Machines Design Laboratory course. It will be Wednesday from 3 to 5 p.m. in the New Engineering Building’s Harris 
Rotunda. Several other robots 
from the Machine Intelligence Lab will be displayed, includ-ing the 2014 runner-up ro-
bots from two international 
competitions: our robot boat (PropaGator, which won the world championship in 2013) and our robot submarine 
(SubjuGator, which has won 
three previous world champi-onships and came in second for the third year in a row). 
Visit mil.ufl.edu/imdl/robot_
info_s15.htm for more info.
Marjorie Harris Carr Earth Day 
Luncheon
To commemorate the 45th 
anniversary of Earth Day, the Cultural Arts Coalition is holding a luncheon honor-
ing Marjorie Harris Carr on 
Wednesday from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Kanapaha Botanical Gardens. The event will feature guest speaker and 
UF alumna Peggy Macdonald, 
author of “Marjorie Harris Carr: Defender of Florida’s Environment.” Carr, the wife 
of longtime UF biology pro-
fessor and turtle conserva-tion biologist Archie Carr, is best known for her leadership of Florida Defenders of the Environment’s campaign to 
stop construction of the Cross 
Florida Barge Canal and restore the Ocklawaha River. Tickets are $30 and can be purchased by contacting Nkwanda Jah 
at the Cultural Arts Coalition 
at 352-372-0216 or at cultur-alartscoalition.org.
Rediscovering Diamond Teeth 
MaryThe Matheson History Museum will spotlight the story of Diamond Teeth 
Mary with a presentation by 
award-winning journalist Pete Gallagher on Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. Diamond Teeth Mary 
is one of the many Florida 
women who contributed to the blues genre. As a young musician she sang with Billie Holiday, Duke Ellington and 
Nat King Cole; she inspired 
Johnny Copeland to become a musician and performed at Carnegie Hall, the White 
House, the Apollo Theater and 
the Cotton Club. For decades, many thought her career in music had ended. However, in the 1980s Gallagher discov-
ered and managed the come-
back of Diamond Teeth Mary. Gallagher is a graduate of UF and was thrice nominated for 
the Pulitzer Prize. Admission 
is $5.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
AM
HIGH  84° LOW  57°TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
By Marisa Stelnicki
Alligator Contributing Writer
There has been a 25 percent decline in 
deaths from oxycodone overdoses since a 
drug monitoring program was implemented in Florida.
The Prescription Drug Monitoring Program 
keeps tabs on highly abused, controlled-sub-stance prescriptions, such as pain relievers, anti-anxiety medications and stimulant medi-cations. Chris Delcher, assistant professor in 
the UF Department of Health Outcomes and 
Policy and the lead author of a study tracking 
the progress of the program since it began in 
2011, said the Florida Department of Health gathered this information from pharmacies to monitor prescription trends.
“Florida has done a remarkable job of 
clamping down on the availability of prescrip-tion pain relievers,” Delcher said, “but when you do that, you can also expect that the de-mand is still there. So, you start to see a shift 
of some people into heroin and other kinds of 
illicit drugs.”
Delcher said UF researchers found there was a decrease by looking at the monthly number of deaths from oxycodone over about 10 years.
Delcher said the program has given pre-
scribers more information about their pa-tients’ medical history so they can make more informed dosage decisions. It can also expose 
whether patients are receiving prescriptions 
from multiple prescribers.
“In one way, shape or form, the PMPs are 
limiting the availability of those forms of high-ly abused pain medications, and then that is translating to reducing the number of deaths from those medications,” Delcher said.
Almost every pharmacy in Gainesville uses 
the program, said Reggie Howard, lead techni-
cian at CVS Pharmacy on Archer Road. It gives 
pharmacists a thorough look at the patient, which allows them to determine if the patient needs the medication or if they are trying to abuse it.
“We will call (the prescriber) and ask them 
what is going on with the prescription,” How-ard said, “and what they are prescribing it for in order to get more information to make sure 
they are prescribing the medication for a legiti-
mate purpose.” FL  drug monitoring program 
decreases oxycodone deaths By Emily Cochrane
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
Local authorities arrested two men early 
Sunday after they reportedly had two meth-
amphetamine labs in their car.
At about 12:40 a.m. Sunday near 4030 
SW 13th St., Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
deputies stopped a car, driven by Roy Mc-
Coy Cone, 42, for having its left brake light out, according to a police report.  
While the deputies searched the car, they 
noticed a straw with a white substance, later identiﬁ  ed as meth, in the driver’s side sun visor. The deputies then found a Mountain Dew bottle with particles and liquid behind the passenger seat, in front of Timothy Ford, 
35. Ofﬁ  cers believed the bottle to be a “one-
pot meth lab,” according to the report.
The Gainesville Alachua County Drug 
Task Force, made up of both city and county ofﬁ  cers, was called to assist the deputies, ac-cording to the report. The bottle was found to have 25.3 grams of liquid meth.
Authorities then found a second one-pot 
meth lab in a bag in the car’s trunk, accord-
ing to the report. While the bag did not con-
tain meth, the trunk held items, including lithium batteries, a pipe cutter and a package of coffee ﬁ  lters, which of-ﬁ  cers said are commonly 
used to make meth.
Ford told authori-
ties he did not know 
what was going on, but 
when asked, said he had bought Sudafed one to two weeks ago. Ofﬁ  cers 
said Sudafed is a com-mon precursor ingredient 
to making meth, accord-
ing to the report.
When authorities 
searched Ford, they found 15 receipts for 
items, including Publix coffee ﬁ  lters, lithium AA batteries and Mountain 
Dew bottles, which ofﬁ  cers said are all com-
monly used to make meth, according to the 
report.
Police arrested both men on charges of 
possession of drug equipment and posses-sion of a controlled substance. Ford had an additional charge of trafﬁ  cking more than 14 grams of meth. Ofﬁ  cers took both men to the Alachua County Jail where Cone remained as of press time in lieu of a $7,000 bond, and 
Ford remained in lieu of a $22,000 bond. Meth lab found in local’s car 
Cone
Ford
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Bernard Mair talks with Jerone Dunbar, a 27 year old UF computer science Ph.D. student, at a recep-
tion for Mair on Monday. Dunbar said he met Mair through Dunbar’s work with the graduate student 
advisory council, and they connected over their shared Jamaican heritage.
and the head of the North Caro-
lina State University mathematics department.
He also served as associate 
dean in the UF College of Liber-al Arts & Sciences from 2008 to 2009.
Mair has conducted research 
in areas ranging from abstract 
harmonic analysis to statistical 
inverse problems and image pro-cessing. Reflecting on his time at UF, he said he enjoyed handling 
his own research.
“I have gotten (an) incredible 
opportunity to work in research 
and administration all across the university,” he said.
Mair said he has learned a 
great deal by working and teach-ing at UF.
“It’s been the greatest experi-
ence I could have asked for,” he said.
UF faculty members shared 
mixed feelings of sadness and pride when they found out Mair was leaving Gainesville.
Donna Parker, the associate 
dean for diversity and health eq-uity in the College of Medicine, said she has known Mair since 1992. 
She said although she’s hap-
py for him, she’s sad to see him leave.
“(He’s) very quiet but definite-
ly a strong leader,” Parker said.
She said she thinks Mair will 
make a successful dean at How-ard.
He’s approachable and greets 
everyone with a smile, she said.
Arlithia Mackey worked with 
Mair last year as a student assis-tant to the director of curriculum.  She said he always smiled, and he 
always asked if she needed any 
help with work.
“He’s really caring,” she said.Mair said leaving UF is bit-
tersweet, but he’s excited for his next adventure at Howard Uni-versity.
“There’s so much opportunity 
to help people, students and fac-
ulty,” he said.MAIR,  from pg 1Faculty, students wish him luck at new Howard University job
vational, inspirational, and it’s probably 
something that we hear every day and don’t realize it comes from the Bible,” he said. “I 
wouldn’t even be mad if they put something 
from the Quran.”
If UF is going to be so meticulous as to 
take down the quote, it should be thorough 
about getting rid of all religious references, 
Henderson said.
“If we’re going to complain about that, 
we should complain about the money we use on campus because it says ‘In God we 
trust,’” he said. “I think (Freedom From Re-ligion are) OK in speaking how they feel, 
but insofar as making people take it down, our whole country was founded on biblical principles, so does that mean we take down our flag?”
Freedom From Religion has run into simi-
lar incidents on government buildings and lower-level public schools like high schools, Seidel said, though never a university.
“So basically all we’re asking for is ... for 
the university to investigate and remove or to cover up the Bible verse,” he said.
Michael Johns, president of Gator 
Freethought, an organization encourag-ing discussion of religion, said the club is working on a letter to Fuchs in support of Seidel’s.
Johns said when he first heard about the 
verse, he thought it might be OK, depend-ing on which verse it was. After reading it, 
however, he disagreed with its placement on 
campus.
“The explicit instruction to walk humbly 
with your god almost puts it out to seem that the university is saying that to be a member of the community, to do good in academia here, you must believe in a god,” he said.
Johns said the quote makes people from 
different religions, or who aren’t religious, 
feel excluded, including members of his 
club.
“So we’re not attacking Christianity by 
saying this,” he said. “We’re simply asking that the university be respectful towards all 
of their students and abide by these laws 
that have been established to ensure at pub-lic institutions, especially at a university, that you can feel safe and secure and wel-come, regardless of your beliefs.”
BIBLE,  from pg 1A UF student group is working on letter in support of petition CAMPUS
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
afigueroa@alligator.org
UF’s top research has been com-
piled into easy-to-read nonfiction 
books.
The digital books, called Ga-
torbytes, will feature UF’s best 
research for people curious about 
science, technology and other re-search topics.
This is not the first time a uni-
versity has produced research-based books, but Gatorbytes differs because it’s authored by journal-ists, said Meredith Morris-Babb, director of the University Press of 
Florida.
“It’s for the intellectually curi-
ous,” she said.
The first three books are about 
tomatoes, viruses and voting. The 
lengths of the digital books range from 25 to 150 pages, and the pric-es range from $2.99 to $6.99. But, until Wednesday, the first three books will be available as PDF downloads for free.
Babb said the books are as-
signed one of three levels ranging from basic to advanced depending on word count. A basic level book, like the first three published, will have about 6,000 to 7,000 words, and a medium level book will have about 12,000 to 15,000 words.
The next books will be longer 
and released sometime next year, she said. They will be about hur-ricanes, diabetes and online educa-tion.
She said each topic was chosen 
based on it’s value in preeminence research and will also highlight UF’s partnership with other univer-sities and show how multiple col-
leges collaborate during research 
projects.
“It’s letting people know that 
Florida isn’t your typical SEC uni-versity,” she said.
About half a dozen journalists 
will be working on the books, UF spokesman Steve Orlando said.
He said UF decided to make 
ebooks because the audience UF is trying to reach is more likely to read books digitally than in print. However, he said a limited number of physical books will be printed.
Journalists were hired to write 
the books because they bring a dif-ferent, easy-to-read writing style, Orlando said.
“Journalists have a unique abil-
ity to take complex material and break it down into layman’s lan-guage,” he said, “and make it a compelling story at the same time.”
The three books can be down-
loaded for free at aa.ufl.edu/ga-torbytes. Research goes digital with ebooks
FOUR STUDENTS WERE 
AWARDED.
By Lindsay Alexander
Alligator Contributor Writer
After months of obsessively 
checking her email, Amber Todor-off was relieved to learn she earned a scholarship to attend graduate school at the University of Oxford 
next Fall.
Todoroff, a geography and Eng-
lish senior, was one of four UF stu-
dents to receive a Frost Scholarship earlier this month, and it will fund their tuition and living expenses at Oxford for one year.
Ten students from Florida pub-
lic universities earned the scholar-
ship, and they will be working to-
ward a master’s degree within the science, technology, engineering and mathematics fields. This is the program’s second year.Two other UF recipients include 
Parker Edwards, a 22-year-old mathematics senior, and Made-leine Turcotte, a 22-year-old micro-biology and cell science senior.
Todoroff will work toward her 
master’s in nature, society and en-vironmental governance.  
“I’ve never been to Europe be-
fore, but I’m definitely looking forward to the adventure and a more international Student Body,” Todoroff, 23, said.
Sadra Hamedzadeh, a UF 
chemistry senior, also earned the 
scholarship and will be studying 
pharmacology at Oxford. He said he will work with one of Oxford’s world-renowned pharmacology faculty members.
“I thought it would be good for 
me to bridge the gap between my chemistry research here at UF,” Hamedzadeh, 24, said, “and my medical research here in the fu-ture.”UF students awarded 
Oxford scholarships
“Journalists have a unique 
ability to take complex 
material and break it down 
into layman’s language and 
make it a compelling story at 
the same time.”
Steve Orlando
spokesman, UF
“W e’re simply asking that the 
university be respectful towards all of 
their students and abide by these laws.”
Michael Johns
president, Gator FreethoughtSometimes, when Juan Debiedma 
gets recognized, fans scream. Some-times, they ask for an autograph. Sometimes, they just whisper “Hi, 
Hungrybox,” then walk away.  
Juan “Hungrybox” Debiedma is the No.1 
ranked “Super Smash Bros. Melee” player in Florida. Some Friday nights, if you’re lucky, 
you can find him playing Smash — the game that transformed him into a quasi-celebrity — on UF’s campus.  
On a recent night, he joined other gamers 
in a lecture hall in Turlington, surrounded by 10 to 15 TVs, gaming consoles and players. Some of the players were in pajamas, ready to play until 2 in the morning.
But Juan wore a yellow polo shirt — he 
wouldn’t be there long. He had Friday night plans.
Really, he’s just your average, 21-year-old 
college guy: He has a trendy beard and mus-
tache, a girlfriend he met at a party and job 
applications to send in before graduation in 
May.
But for a small niche, he’s Hungrybox, 
the professional player who rose to gamester 
fame using Pokémon’s Jigglypuff as his main 
character in Melee. He has sponsors, he has 
fans and he has haters.
Debiedma calls himself a “smasher.” He 
doesn’t play other video games, just “Super Smash Bros. Melee,” the game he gets paid to play. It’s a passion.
As he winds down his college career and 
enters the workforce, Debiedma said Hun-grybox isn’t going anywhere.
This is what he hopes to have in the next 
few months: a degree in chemical engineer-ing, a nice job in that field lined up and a good showing at Evo, The Evolution Cham-pionship series in Las Vegas in July. It’s one of the largest fighting-game tournaments in the world, and it’s where he placed second in one-on-one play last year.   
A gold would be nice, but, at the very 
least, he wants to maintain his ranking as one of the top five Melee players in the 
world.
 “Whenever I place below fourth, I get 
pretty pissed.”Before he was Hungrybox, also known as 
Hbox, Debiedma was a just a little boy with 
a controller in his hand.
At about 3 years old, he played his first 
video game, “Sonic the Hedgehog.”
This, he said, is probably when it started. 
The details are fuzzy, but it didn’t matter back then. He wasn’t getting paid yet. He didn’t have sponsors, or his own 
streaming channel or a white jersey 
with his gaming name, “Hungry-
box,” printed on the back.
Fast forward to 1999 when Nin-
tendo released the first version of Su-
per Smash Bros. The goal of the game 
is simple: You pick a famous Ninten-
do character and fight to the death with your 
closest friends. In 2001, the sequel, “Super Smash Bros. Melee,” was released.
You could choose Fox, a brown, well, fox, 
who happens to be an alien and master pi-
lot — largely considered the “best” charac-
ter in the game. Or, you could also choose 
Debiedma’s main character, Jigglypuff, a round, pink Pokémon best known for sing-
ing people to sleep. It’s hardly intimidating, 
but if you know what buttons to press, some 
real damage can be done.
“I really liked the whole risk-reward 
thing, so I stuck with her,” Debiedma said.  
Around 2006, he started competing in 
tournaments with his friends, where “we would get completely destroyed.” During this time he came up with his gaming name. He wanted to go on a field trip, and he forged his mom’s signature.
“It looked like a Pac-Man with teeth,” he 
said, so he called it a hungry box.
Hungrybox would soon become a bit of a 
gaming legend. You can even find videos of his matches on YouTube.
He plays with a set facial expression: me-
thodical, focused, eyes set on the screen. His 
arms don’t move much, only his fingers. In 
fact, the only time he moves at all is when he loses a life or takes a life off his opponent. Then, he might lean back or nod his head. When the game ends, he offers a handshake or a pat on the back, win or lose.
If he wins though, he breaks out of his 
trance. In a video of his semifinal win (he 
went on to win the whole thing) at the 2015 
Paragon tournament in Orlando, Florida, he stood on a chair, raised his hands in victory and pounded his chest toward a cheering 
crowd.
But he worked up to that. In 2009, he 
placed third at the Genesis tourna-
ment in Antioch, California. In 2010, he got one of his biggest wins: first 
place at APEX, a tournament in New 
Brunswick, New Jersey, with 220 en-
trants in his division, Melee singles. 
That earned him $1,485.
Now, he’s at the level where he 
has sponsors. He started out on Team Curse, 
and in April 2014, the group merged with 
Team Liquid, an e-sports team that repre-
sents several companies.
Debiedma is hesitant to talk about spon-
sorship pay, but a listing in esportearnings.
com gives an idea of what the pros get in prize 
money. According to the site, which warned 
prize information is missing from some tour-
naments, Hungrybox earned $23,965.14 from 
59 tournaments. Breaking down his earnings 
by year, the site lists he’s already made at 
least $4,935.50 in 2015 alone.
As for sponsorship perks, Debiedma said 
he gets transportation covered for the farther tournaments, and he’s gotten equipment like an HTC phone and an Alienware computer in the past. At competitions, he dons his white Team Liquid jersey. 
“It’s more of a lifestyle,” he said. “This is 
what you do. You train; you’re an athlete.”
In high school, that meant playing the 
game every day. As an engineering student taking 14 to 15 credits every semester, he said he plays once or twice a week, and it’s for fun.
When he does play, it’s sometimes Friday 
nights at UF. The Gator Gaming organiza-tion hosts a weekly “SmashFest” in Turl-ington Hall, Room L011, starting play at 7 p.m. and going until 2 in the morning. With TVs set up everywhere, anyone who wants to play can, and games on the projector can be broadcast live through the site Twitch.tv. Using the Amazon-owned platform, anyone around the world can watch the live stream of their games.
On a recent night, Diamond Overstreet, a 
computer engineering senior, supervised the night.
“There’s certain people that love to play 
games, and certain people that love to set it up,” he said.
Overstreet is one of the latter. As project 
manager for Gator Gaming, he likes to help “provide a gaming experience” free of charge and said it’s a good change of pace for his friend Hungrybox.
 “He loves these events because they’re 
free, they’re relaxed,” Overstreet said. “He can get to know his community, get to know his players.”
The community already knows him pretty 
well, though.
But for Amanda Snyder, Debiedma’s girl-
friend, the name Hungrybox wasn’t on her radar. That changed at a Halloween party in 
2012, when she was dressed as Princess Peach.
She said Debiedma waltzed up to her to 
tell her he was a nationally ranked Smash player, and she was dressed as one of the game’s characters.
Now having dated for almost two years, 
Snyder, also a UF senior, admits she’s “ter-rible, actually” at video games. But Debiedma has been giving her lessons lately.
Even if she has to compete with Smash 
sometimes, Snyder said she’s always been in-volved with the gaming part of his life. She’s finally started going to his tournaments, con-vincing him she won’t be a distraction.
“To me, this is like, such a massive part 
of his life, you know?”  she said. “I thought it 
was crazy that no one he dated had ever paid attention to his tournaments.”
But so many others do. As of press time, 
Debiedma has nearly 30,000 followers on his Twitter, @LiquidHbox. When he does Reddit 
AMAs, he gets hundreds of comments and 
upvotes easily. Once, on a date with Snyder 
at BJ’s Restaurant and Brewhouse at the Oaks Mall, the busboy refilling their water whis-pered, “Hi, Hungrybox,” then walked away. 
One time, someone at the Hub asked him to 
sign a wallet.
Yes, he has a strong cult following and nat-
ural gaming talent, but Debiedma insists, “My main goal isn’t to be a gamer forever. I want 
to be an engineer.” His plan is to keep finding 
a happy medium between work and play.
Hungrybox signs autographs at tourna-
ments, and Juan spends a summer working 
on process variables and formulas with Hen-
kel, the company that makes Dial soap.
Hungrybox gets a steady flood of views 
on his live stream gaming channel, twitch.tv/
hungrybox, and Juan debates accepting a job 
offer at RockTenn, a major manufacturer of 
consumer packaging listed on the New York 
Stock Exchange.
Hungrybox retweets the Jigglypuff illus-
trations fans send on Twitter, and Juan gets 
runner-up in UF’s Mr. Engineering contest.
He couldn’t help but laugh to himself 
when it came to the pageant’s final question: 
They asked him how he balances different passions in life.TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Juan “Hungrybox” Debiedma plays against Mustafa “Ice” Akcakaya, from Germany, at Apex 2015. Debiedma placed fifth out of about 1,000 entrants.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Juan Debiedma poses for a photo.
Player one:Hungrybox
UF SENIOR SMASH HIT IN  FIGHTING GAME
By Jenna Lyons
Alligator Contributing Writer
“It’s more of a lifestyle. This is what you do. You train; you’re an athlete.”
Juan “Hungrybox” Debiedma
T op 5 “Melee” player in world, UF chemical engineering senior
•   •   ••   •   •The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORColumn
Think twice before watching: Worldstar Hip 
Hop and similar media exploit race and poverty 
Last year, I came home from class to find 
my roommate and a few of my friends glued to a laptop. “This fight comp is cra-zy; come see this,” my roommate said. I sat down and watched a series of brutal 
videos of people fighting. Some were alcohol-fueled altercations outside bars, others were neighborhood events with dozens of local spectators. 
However, there were some common themes: 
Most of the people in these videos were black, and all of them came from impoverished backgrounds.
The host website of this fight compilation was World-
star Hip Hop, a content-aggregating video blog founded 
in 2005 by Lee “Q” O’Denat. While the site features some hip-hop content, it is best known for uncensored videos of fights and public sexual acts set in low-income areas. 
In an interview with Vibe magazine, O’Denat himself re-
ferred to the website as the “CNN of the ghetto.”
It is not the existence of these videos that troubles 
me. After all, Worldstar is a content aggregator and is 
therefore likely to attract material with high shock val-
ue. What troubles me is the popularity I’ve witnessed it gain among my peers: suburban, middle-class college students.
This is not to say they are intrinsically racist or clas-
sist for watching these videos. They are simply detached from the reality of what the videos depict.
In a time when the Internet provides a constant 
stream of spectacles, it is all too easy for us to get caught up in the voyeuristic pleasure of watching street fights 
in neighborhoods we didn’t grow up in. In doing so, we 
choose to treat the subjects of these videos as caricatures of race and socioeconomic status as opposed to actual people with real struggles.
Worldstar is not the first to perpetrate these 
negative images of race and poverty. Televi-sion segments such as Maury Povich’s “Find Your Baby Daddy” and reality TV shows such as “Cops” are consistently guilty of the same 
thing. 
Both Worldstar videos and these television 
programs dehumanize the people they show 
and will continue to do so unless we, as view-
ers, choose to stop watching.
Therefore I urge anyone reading this to think twice 
about what you consider entertainment. Watching a cer-tain video or show may seem passive and harmless, but in doing so you are actively promoting damaging stereo-types. All the while, you are reducing the very real lives 
of people into sources of shock and amusement.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics junior. Her col-
umn usually appears on Fridays.Pets aren’t as easy 
to abandon as old 
furniture
The last days of school are here. Classes end Wednes-
day, which is the Alligator’s last day in print for the se-mester. It’s the cusp of Spring and Summer; only finals stand in our way.
So begin the yearly end-of-semester rituals. There 
will be long nights in the library fueled by coffee and am-
phetamines; days spent packing up our stuff for home or whatever lies in store for the summer; trips to the beach or tubing in the springs; or one last, desperate bender to 
celebrate the end of a long semester.
But one thing happens every year and often gets over-
looked: Students who are about to graduate and leave 
Gainesville don’t take their pets with them.
Often, this can be seen on Facebook. People post in local 
groups, asking if anyone wants the dog or cat they had in college but are leaving behind.
It happens for a variety of reasons, but most of the time 
the story is as follows: Someone thinks it’ll be fun to get a 
dog while they’re in college. It’s nice for a few years, but 
come graduation the owner has to decide what to do with it in their post-grad life. Many keep their pets, but a lot realize 
they either can’t take care of it or don’t want to.
Obviously, this is really sad.
But it’s worse for the pets.There’s more to it than the emotional trauma a pet must 
go through after being abandoned. Sometimes they find 
new owners, but pets are often simply left behind. These 
abandoned animals are taken in by Alachua County Animal Services or local animal shelters. The shelters will try to find a new home for the pets, but doing so isn’t easy. 
Sometimes, abandoned animals have to be euthanized; 
even though Alachua County Animal Services is working hard to achieve a no-kill status by the end of this year, some animals may still be put down. Many others just end up without a home — 40 percent of the cats in Alachua County 
are homeless.
It’s a huge, but largely silent problem around here. It 
begs the question: What can be done to prevent this cycle 
from continuing? 
Animals already caught in the trap can’t really be helped. 
If you can’t find anyone to take your pet, please be sure to donate it safely to a shelter. If you don’t have a pet already but want one, you could be part of the solution. How?
Utilize pet foster programs. This won’t save animals al-
ready in need, but it could prevent the cycle from continu-ing.
The Alachua County chapter of the Humane Society has 
a program like this. They provide food, bowls, medicine and all the needed supplies to foster homes. A foster pro-gram can help in many ways. Fostering can socialize res-cued animals, which prepares them for adoption. Fostering 
a pet can help you get a taste of what it’s like to have a pet 
without fully committing to the long-term responsibility of owning one. And, if you find permanent room in your life for a pet, adopt one from a local shelter.
TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Namwan 
Leavell
opinions@alligator.org
“In doing so, we choose to treat 
the subjects of these videos 
as caricatures of race and 
socioeconomic status as opposed 
to actual people with real 
struggles.”TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor
IA series missing the positives
What the Innovation Academy series fails to point out 
is that IA is designed as a template for its students. IA 
students have the power to advance IA throughout UF in 
their own ways.
This is one of the greatest aspects of IA. We can break 
through barriers whereas traditional students do not have 
the same opportunity. IA brings out the ambition in stu-
dents to strive to improve UF while advancing IA.
Our students are exceptional leaders throughout cam-
pus. Since the inaugural IA class, our students have pressed on to end discrimination against IA students. Now, IA students are allowed without question to go to sport-ing events, lead student organizations and take charge in 
Student Government in both parties.
What the Alligator’s reporting missed is the main rea-
son that IA exists: Students want to be in IA. The IA appli-
cation includes a separate essay where potential students 
make an extra attempt to have the opportunity to learn 
how to innovate in an economy in need of a different way of thinking. IA’s curriculum offers a non-traditional way of learning that shapes students for the new job market. While there may be a few bumps in the road, IA is leading the charge to change a university system that produces followers into a specialized program that builds leaders.
While I appreciate the Alligator’s coverage of IA, it is 
unfortunate that the negative stereotype some carry about IA is being promoted by some within the Alligator. But it is ultimately up to IA students to combat this misrepresenta-
tion through action on campus.
Connor Corzine
UF IA Student, political science major and former student senator
Well, this is it.
Like many of my friends and classmates, I will be a 
college graduate in two weeks. For most seniors, this is a 
stunning realization that has yet to sink in. At the risk of sounding too cliche and overly sentimental, how did the 
past four years ﬂ  y by so quickly? It seems like just yesterday I arrived in Gainesville as a wide-eyed freshman, clinging nervously to my cam-pus map and feeling so cool to be sitting in my ﬁ  rst college lecture hall. Oh, those were the days.
Considering this is my last weekly opinions column for the Alliga-
tor — and yes, I am feeling slightly emotional and sappy about it — I want to use this space to share some ﬁ  nal thoughts and express my gratitude.
First of all, thank you to the friend who en-
couraged me to apply to be an opinions col-umnist. You relentlessly bugged me about it, mostly because you were kind of desperate to hire enough columnists for the semester, but also because you knew I could do it. I am so glad I ﬁ  nally listened.
On that note, thank you to my readers. I 
hope I have done a decent job of entertaining 
and informing you these past two semesters. I have learned so much from displaying my opinion for all of you to see, despite how uncom-fortable it could be at times.
When I started writing this column in August, I felt intimidated by 
the prospect of sharing my opinion on such a public platform. What if people posted nasty comments online in response to my articles? What if I accidentally ended up offending someone and giving the wrong impression?
Thankfully, I have ﬁ  nally learned this incredibly important lesson: 
The freedom to speak your mind is more important than the possibility of other people not liking what you have to say.
Do not ever be afraid to express your opinion, even if it may be 
unpopular or controversial. Sometimes people may celebrate you for 
it, and sometimes they may try to shame you. Either way, you have 
the right to share your beliefs, and anyone who tries to silence you is not worth your time.
With that being said, having a strong opinion does not mean you 
shouldn’t try to have some empathy. We can passionately defend our convictions while still being open to asking other people why they feel differently. 
I am consistently amazed at how disrespectful people on differ-
ent sides of an argument can be to each other. If you disagree with 
someone’s point of view, feel free to attack what they are saying, but 
do not attack their character as a human being. A little kindness will go a long way.
And so, readers, I hope you know how much I have enjoyed shar-
ing my opinion with all of you this year. For those of you who are getting ready to say goodbye, I hope you feel happy and conﬁ  dent as you prepare to take on the world. If you ﬁ  nd yourself struggling to hold it together, try not to completely freak out yet. Though this feels like the end of something great, it is also the beginning of something 
even better.
I wish all of you the best of luck in your future endeavors.
Moriah Camenker is a UF public relations senior. Her column ap-
pears on Tuesdays.Final senior thoughts: Be 
kind and speak your mindColumn
Moriah 
Camenker
opinions@alligator.orgAs a senior, I’m at that point where 
if I am not really going to use the textbook for a class, I don’t even consider buying it. 
I ﬁ  gure I can always just 
search for online text, or hope a friend has 
a copy. 
With that said, I’m not usually a cheap-
skate, but textbook prices are just plain 
ridiculous. 
I was checking my student email yes-
terday, and I got a message that read, “See how much your books are worth!” 
My skepticism was met by sheer sadness — I was 
not surprised, however — when I realized the nearly 
$200 I had paid at the beginning of the semester only amounted to $46. Ugh.
I’m convinced university bookstores are a scam. 
It’s the same every year — I leave with empty pock-
ets and a stack of books I hardly use. 
According to Boundless.com, the cost of text-
books has risen nearly 812 percent in the last 37 
years. 
That’s obscene! I cringe at the thought of what 
my future kids will be paying for their own books. This increase is higher than health care costs and housing prices.
Trust me, I’ve heard the complaints in the long 
line at the bookstore — many of which are coming from me. 
Students are fed up with having to sacriﬁ  ce gas or grocery money for textbooks. 
In addition, I simply refuse to believe 
that textbooks are part of my “educational 
costs.” 
I pay enough for tuition as is, and I 
would prefer to spend that couple hun-
dred dollars each semester elsewhere. 
Here are a few ways to outsmart the 
bookstore:
Check your library. This sounds like 
an overly obvious suggestion, but you 
would be surprised how many people don’t do this. 
Plus, if you have a tablet or e-reader, some of the 
material may be available in that format.
Cloud books. Several recent startup organiza-
tions are adding university material to clouds and 
making them accessible to all students. 
Take Boundless.com for example. Their slogan, 
“Universal Access to Quality Education is a Right,” 
says it all. 
They offer material in more than 20 subjects that 
can be accessed on any platform or device.
YouTube. Every once in a while, YouTube will 
have audio versions of a book. 
What’s better than plugging your earphones in 
and taking a nice walk while catching up on your studies?
Free online textbooks. Places like Bookboon 
have a wide variety of materials for free!
PDF textbooks. Search the Internet and see 
what’s out there. 
Occasionally, material you are looking for has 
been uploaded in a PDF form.
The good ol’ textbook swap. Social media sites 
like Facebook and Craigslist are a great way to ﬁ  nd out if someone has a book you’re looking for. These are usually a much lower cost or free! 
Plus, if you ﬁ  nd someone who is looking for 
what you have and vice versa, it’s a match made 
in heaven.
Make use of these tools and quit spending unnec-
essary amounts of money. 
Just think, you’ll ﬁ  nally be able to say, “Book-
store, it just isn’t working out for us anymore.”
Hallie Gardner writes for the Collegian Central. A 
version of this column appeared on UWire.It's time to break up with the bookstore Column
Hallie Gardner
UWire
“Thankfully, I have inally learned this 
incredibly important lesson: The freedom to 
speak your mind is more important than 
the possibility of other people not liking 
what you have to say.”“That’s obscene! I cringe 
at the thought of what my 
future kids will be paying 
for their own books. This 
increase is higher than 
health care costs and housing 
prices.”that the duplexes and quadruplexes 
were originally meant to house stu-dents. But as better options moved closer to the university campus, so did the students.
“It’s a symphony of different fac-
tors,” Delisle said.
Hutchinson said lower-income 
residents replaced the students. Crime rose, and property values dropped.
So the pocket of neighborhoods 
west of I-75 was left with its cheaply built buildings and roads without 
sidewalks.
And there they remained — dis-
connected from the city on the other 
side of the overpass.
In Linton Oaks, tricycles sit on 
bare driveways.
Cars can be seen driving up 
and down Southwest 61st Street, a half-mile-long road that winds from Southwest 20th Avenue to an abrupt dead-end stop at the back of the neighborhood. But still, more people can be seen walking around.
“There’s a lot of people out here 
without cars,” said Leslie Stewart, a Linton Oaks resident.
It’s a neighborhood where people 
sit on their front porches, kids play outside, neighbors know each oth-er’s names and teenagers ride their bikes in and out of the cul-de-sacs.
The nearest food source is the 
Maa & Paa Grocery Store, a gas-sta-tion-like convenience store located within the neighborhood.
But the store does little more 
than satisfy ice cream cravings and supply basic items like soap.
“It’s there and meets emergency 
needs, but it’s not a solution,” said Jenn Petion, the director of com-munity and government relations for Partnership for Strong Families, the organization that operates the SWAG Center.
The store’s back shelf holds a 
colorful array of sodas. Next to it, a variety of meat is cased in a small freezer. For $5.99, one could buy almost two pounds of chicken nug-
gets, and for $17.99, a bag of shrimp.
The Winn-Dixie on Southwest 
34th Street is only two and a half 
miles away, but no direct bus route goes there. Many take the 25-minute bus ride to Publix at Butler Plaza, which is about 3 miles away.
Those who rely on the bus have 
one option: route 75.
It runs every 35 to 53 minutes 
on weekdays starting at 6 a.m., and makes its last trip from Butler Plaza to Linton Oaks at 6:30 p.m.
“Monday through Friday, it’s not 
that bad,” said resident Raymond Grable. “On the weekends, forget about it.”
On Saturdays, the 29-and-a-half-
mile route runs every 105 minutes.
It doesn’t run on Sundays. “With no car, it’s really hard,” 
Stewart said.
Stewart makes a trip to Walmart 
once a month. She gets the basics: meats, vegetables and potatoes, but she’s restricted to foods that won’t rot too quickly.
She said she wishes she could 
make it to the downtown farmers market and back before the buses stopped running.
“You talk about food desert,” she 
said. “It’s just kind of a desert — for everything.”
The Southwest Eighth Avenue 
Connector will enhance access to the SWAG Center for the surround-ing neighborhoods.
A road to connect Southwest 61st 
Street — the street that runs through Linton Oaks — to Southwest Eighth Avenue will be built. The project in-cludes adding sidewalks, gutters and bike lanes on Southwest 61st Street as well as a new intersection to be built at the entrance of the neighbor-hood at Southwest 20th Avenue, ac-cording to project documents from the Engineering and Operations Division of the Alachua County De-partment of Public Works.
The project was approved in May 
2014, Findley said. This portion of 
the project, including the connec-
tor, road improvements and new intersection, will cost about $13.4 million.
Construction will start in fall 
2016.
But until then, residents from 
Holly Heights, Gordon Manor, Hid-den Oaks and Harbor Cove will have 
to make the 3- to 4-mile walk to the SWAG Center.
While residents from Majestic 
Oaks and Tower Oaks Glen can 
walk to the SWAG building in 20 minutes or less, residents from the other four neighborhoods face an hourlong walk on busy roads.
There’s a shorter route, about a 
15-minute walk, but the path runs 
through the Cornerstone mobile 
home park directly behind Linton Oaks, and that area is private prop-erty.
“People are scared because the 
police messes with them,” said Ma-rie Curtis, the mother of two Linton Oaks residents.
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
Lt. Sherry French said three people have been stopped for trespassing while walking through since March 1, but none were charged. She said police officers use discretion when responding to a trespassing call in the area.
“Some woman walking through 
with her children shouldn’t have to 
walk all the way around,” she said.
Antwoin Vinson takes the short-
cut.
He lives in Harbor Cove, a neigh-
borhood about a mile away from 
Linton Oaks.
If caught by an officer, Vinson 
could get by with a trespassing warning. If caught a second time, he 
could be arrested.
But — like others who live on the 
other end of the trash-littered trail 
that stems from the back of Linton Oaks, Vinson is just trying to get to the bus.
“It’s easier to catch here,” he 
said.
Other days, he comes over to see 
his aunt.
“They block the fence,” Vinson 
said. “They put grease on it, so you slip if you climb the fence.”
Delisle said zoning regulations 
can hinder a supermarket from opening in the area, which is pre-dominantly residential.
An increase in bus routes is also unlikely for now, Hutchinson said.
Because Linton Oaks sits outside 
of Gainesville city limits, route 75 is primarily funded by the county, said Chip Skinner, the marketing and communications supervisor for the Regional Transit System.
“We would love to fund three or 
four times as many buses as we do,” Comm. Hutchinson said, adding that the county’s budget constrains them from doing so.
The SWAG Center works to bring 
change from within.
“It will always require good 
people to step up, be generous and 
understand the larger problem it cre-
ates if we ignore the smaller prob-lems,” Hutchinson said.
Pioneered by nine women who 
wanted to help their community, the center was formed through a triple partnership between SWAG, Partnership for Strong Families and the county.
Since it’s opening in 2012, the 
center has started various food-centered initiatives, including a Wednesday food pantry, a commu-nity garden and free breakfast and lunch for children during the sum-mer months.
The center also partnered with 
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricul-
tural Sciences to offer a free, six-
week cooking class, starting Thurs-day, where residents will be taught how to plan and make healthy meals and will be given a bag of groceries to take home during each class.
The more community members 
become involved, the more edu-cated they’ll become about healthy 
food options.
And the more outside members 
advocate for change, the more it will 
come, Delisle said.
“It’s doable,” he said. “We’ve 
had our own successes.”
A few of those include the advo-
cacy center, an after school program for students, the summer program 
for children and, most recently, the 
SW Health Clinic.
“It’s an ongoing issue,” he said, 
“and it’s a work in progress.”8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015
Carla Vianna / Alligator Staff 
Pictured is the Maa & Paa Grocery Store, the only source of food located within Linton Oaks. The store 
supplies basic foods like frozen meat and snacks; the closest grocery store is the Winn-Dixie on South-west 34th Street.
Carla Vianna / Alligator Staff 
Pictured is the SWAG Family Resource Center, a nonprofit center located in Linton Oaks which works to provide healthy food options for surrounding neighborhoods.
FOOD DESERT,  from pg 1Construction for connector road project to start in fall 2016
•   •   ••   •   ••   •   •TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff 
Shave to Save
Dylan Kovach (left) and Justin Mathew, both 20-year-old UF sopho-
mores, receive buzz cuts on Turlington Plaza on Monday after their fraternity, Sigma Beta Rho, reached its fundraising goal for SOS Chil-dren’s Villages. Seven fraternity members agreed to shave their heads.
CAMPUS
THERE WILL BE NINE 
STUDENTS STUDYING 
ABROAD AS PART OF THE 
PROGRAM.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Contributing Writer
Despite a recent massacre 
April 2 at Garissa University Col-
lege in Garissa, Kenya, that left 
147 dead, the UF in Kenya study-
abroad program is mostly con-cerned with buffalo sightings.
Safety is taken seriously, said 
Todd Palmer, the faculty pro-gram director for the UF in Ke-nya study-abroad trip. 
Because the nine students 
studying abroad will be living 
in the rural Laikipia plateau, the 
area is less likely to be a target for human violence.
The Laikipia plateau is a land-
scape for wildlife, not a major city.
“We drill people on how to 
respond to the presence of wild animals,” Palmer said.
Palmer has been leading trips 
to Kenya for university students since 2001 and with UF students since 2009.
“Everyone stays close in 
tents,” Palmer said. “We spend the first couple days making sure everyone understands how to stay safe and healthy in the 
bush.”
While wildlife on the Laikipia 
plateau where the students study 
can include lions, cheetahs and leopards, they aren’t the cause 
for the trip’s safety concerns — 
buffalo and elephants are, Palm-er said.
Jessica Gunson, a UF biol-
ogy junior and Palmer’s teach-ing assistant, said male buffalo get more aggressive as they get 
older.
However, the living quarters 
are further secured by an electric 
fence that surrounds the camp, she said. 
Askari soldiers also protect the group all day.
“Those are local tribesmen 
and they stay with us 24/7,” Gunson, 21, said.
Gunson went on the trip last 
year as a student and is return-
ing to this summer as a teach-
ing assistant within the study-abroad program.
“Kenya just kind of feels like 
home, so it was something I 
wanted to go back to,” Gunson 
said.
Palmer didn’t always want to 
study in Africa. 
He started out studying biol-
ogy on the pre-med track while in college, but he changed his focus from pre-med to zoology after going to Kenya on a study-
abroad trip himself.
He said he hopes students 
gain an appreciation for the 
planet’s biodiversity and Ke-
nya’s culture.
Gunson said there are some 
misconceptions about Kenya.
“The real concern is the wild-
life and not the political situa-tion, as I think a lot of people 
believe it is,” Gunson said.Despite massacre, UF Kenya study 
abroad focused on wildlife safety
By Paige Levin
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Online earned a new distinction among 
the nation’s online colleges.
SR Education group, which publishes re-
views and rankings of online colleges, ranked 
UF Online 19th out of 20 of the nation’s online 
institutions this month based off data from the 
National Center for Education Statistics.
Kim Wetter, SR Education Group marketing 
manager, said the ranking will help prospec-tive students learn they can earn a degree on-line from prestigious universities.
“(UF has) a variety of degrees, which is 
helpful,” Wetter said. “Other than that, they’re 
one of the public institutions that has notori-
ety and prestige. They’re big enough to enter into the online college industry and make their mark.”
Stanford University, Columbia University 
and Duke University took the top three spots.UF Online opened January 2014, and there are about 1,000 students. It has 102 online degrees and an acceptance rate of 46.55 percent.
Andrew McCollough, UF Online interim di-
rector, said UF made the list because it’s an on-line program within a well-branded university.
“Our aspiration is to deliver to undergradu-
ates the highest possible quality education in our parameters, and we won’t be satisfied until we deliver,” McCollough said.
Wetter said SR Education Group com-
piled data for four months. To be considered, schools had to offer a minimum of three online bachelor’s or master’s degrees.Schools had to be regionally accredited, 
nonprofit and fully online, meaning that on-campus requirements had to be minimal enough that students could maintain current employment.
Schools with rolling admission were omit-
ted to avoid skewed data of acceptance rates.
Online education is inevitable, Wetter said, 
so students deserve to know what the best available programs are.
“It’s just the way technology and society 
are going,” she said. UF Online ranked among top 20 online academic institutions“The real concern is the 
wildlife and not the political 
situation, as I think a lot of 
people believe it is.”
Jessica Gunson
UF biology juniorTUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    4-22-15-36-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    4-22-15-22-1
UNIVERSTIY COMMONS Across campus. Best deal in town. 1 room avail 6/1, $325/mo. 1 room avail (luxury room) 7/1, $350/mo. Utils, wi-fi & cable incl. #1 location for bus rte. Resort-style living & amenities. Beautifully furn'd. Ladies only. Call Belle 352-328-2477    6-11-15-12-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
4-22-14-72-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    4-22-15-45-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    5-12-15-32-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com   5-12-15-32-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    5-12-15-32-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● 
Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1590. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
FOR RENT: MIDTOWN.
Blocks from UF. 4BR/2BA, all appliances in-cluded, W/D, DW. Pets ok. From $1600/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    5-12-15-14-2
Efficiency apartment on horse farm $350/mo. Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and/or rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.     6-30-15-24-2Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.
Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:
352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com   
 6-9-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
5-12-15-9-2
MOVE IN SPECIALS FOR THE
SUMMER/FALL 2015!Located at Campus Edge across the street from the UF Campus and SouthWest Rec. Please call 954-325-6375 for special pricing.    5-21-15-12-2
**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
1, 2, 3 and 4 bedroom houses & apart-
ments available for August. All near UF and 
Downtown. * CALL 870-2760 *    7-2-15-16-2
UNFURNISHED HOUSE
2398 SW 2nd Ave. 4BR/2BA.
$1700/mo. Newly renovated.
Across from UF Law School. Avail August.
Call 338-1000, ext 100 or 240-9001
8-17-15-27-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Looking for anyone interested in subleasing my room at the pavilion $352 a month from May to June. You can contact me at 810-358-4202 or by email: atidrick11@icloud.com    5-21-15-10-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Wanted, private br/ba, furn liv-ing room, condo end unit (Rockwood Villas) $375/m + util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d. Call George 904.874.5774    4-22-15-14-4
Available August 1st. Large room, pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 min from Shands. Perfect for med, engineering or grad student. Large, quiet, lovely home. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    5-28-15-16-4
Room/board 10 acre estate in exchangefor part-time assistance caring fortemporarily impaired 64 yr old female forsummer/fall. Prefer female w/nursingexper. Contact 352-219-0141    4-22-15-2-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-22-15-18-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-17-15-25 -10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 FurnishingsTUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
Get your Gator on!
Gold & silver gator lapel pins
$5 each or $30 per dozen
IFAS Extension Bookstore
www.ifasbooks.com/352-392-1764
4-22-15-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
WANTED: JUNK & USED CARS
Up to $1000 & more paid.
Free pick up. Call 352-342-7037.
Also buying ATVs & UTVs     4-22-15-16-12
Sell your running or not running car
Up to $2500 or more
Cash buyers   352-771-6191   4-22-15-14-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           4-22-10-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 5-14-14-25-13 
www.Skinnteaglobal.com
Learn how to lose 5 lbs in 5 days with our fat burning tea. Income opportunity available. 352-275-8561    4-22-6-13This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the summer semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
Must be enrolled in classes and able to
work summer 2015.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part-time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th St.Veterinary experience ideal.    5-19-15-14
SIMED is looking for full time, part time and PRN employees for our Pharmacy, Radiology & various medical offices. Check out our web-site, SIMEDjobs.com for more information on each position and to apply online.    4-22-15-11-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, FlCook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14
10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015
Lifeguard (Certified) $11.37 hourly
Seasonal position works part-time on weekends in a maximum security mental health treatment facility for adult males in Gainesville, Florida.  Successful candidates must have current active certification as a lifeguard, a valid Florida driver’s license, and must be able to successfully complete the required background screening for provid -
ing caretaker services.  Applications must be received online by April 30, 2015. To apply, log onto: http://peoplefirst.myflorida.com.   Under Alachua County, select Human Services Worker II requisition # 60957037. You may also contact Grady Carthon at (352)264-8248 for more details.   4-22-15-10-14
 L E A S I N G  A G E N T -  PT
Friendly, Energetic Person.
Customer Service Exp.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefits pkg
Must be avail. weekends.
Apply in person Hunters Crossing Apts
4830 NW 43rd St.       DFWP
4-22-15-9-14
Leasing Consultant - Part Time (Flexible scheduling offering 30 hrs/week + 
benefits) for The Retreat at Magnolia Parke 
in Gainesville, FL. Apply at www.maac.com   
4-22-15-8-14
Perform all aspects of property leasing, in-
cluding but not limited to, lease of property, 
resident verification, file completion, answer -
ing phones, customer satisfaction, preparing 
newsletter, assist in planning resident func-tions. Perform all tasks in a timely manner. 
To obtain a complete job description, visit our 
website at www.emmergroup.com/about-us/careers.   4-21-15-5-14
Hiring Reporters, Content
Writers and Copy Editors in
Jacksonville, write on digital/
email mktg at MarketingSherpa 
Apply at meclabs.com/careers
5-12-15-5-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working stu-
dent for part-time work in land mainte-nance on weekends. Begin $10/hr. Contact TrueheartofFlorida@gmail.com    5-14-15-5-14
Coastal Georgia In-residence position - Housekeeper/Server - Greyfield Inn on Cumberland Island. Dining experience and some knowledge of wine required. $28,500/year plus room and board. Inquire: seashore@greyfieldinn.com    4-22-15-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-14-25-15Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-
25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 23 RidesHeadline
Story description Pg#TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Follow alligatorSports on Twitter
For updates from tonight's baseball
game between UF and Bethune-Cookman, follow Ian Cohen on Twitter @Icohenb.UF women's tennis freshman Brooke Austin was named to the Southeastern Conference All-T ournament team, the conference announced Tuesday.
UF adds diver to women's team
Diver Miranda Goss signed her national letter of intent to compete with 
the UF women's swimming and diving team, the school announced Monday. Goss is the ninth member of the Gators' 2015 class.Aaron Albright / Alligator
Rachel Spicer and coach Rhonda Faehn point to Spicer's mom in the O'Connell Center crowd during 
Florida's win against Kentucky in the team's annual Link to Pink Meet on Feb. 27 in the O'Connell Center.
By Graham Hack
Alligator Writer
@graham_hack24
Winning a third-straight na-
tional title on Saturday night 
was by far the highlight of the UF 
gymnastics team’s season. Dur-
ing a year of ups and downs, here are ﬁ  ve moments that stood out above the rest:
Rachel Spicer’s special 
night against Kentucky 
at Link to Pink event  
On a night when gymnastics 
came second on the priority list, 
the sport helped capture the es-
sence of the human spirit. 
On Feb. 27 at Florida’s Link 
to Pink event — designed for 
breast cancer awareness — Ra-
chel Spicer’s mother attended her 
ﬁ  rst gymnastics meet since being diagnosed with breast cancer a month prior. 
Her daughter put on a show for 
her, scoring a season-best 9.925 on ﬂ  oor and tying a season-best on vault and what was then tied for a season-best on beam with two 9.875s against Kentucky. Af-ter her ﬂ  oor routine, Spicer point-
ed up at her mother and blew a 
kiss as her mother pointed back. It was an emotional moment 
and by far the best of the year.
Kytra Hunter wins 
ﬂ  oor title in ﬁ  nal 
collegiate competition  
Kytra Hunter had a senior sea-
son she could have only dreamed 
of, winning Southeastern Confer-
ence Gymnast of the Year, the NCAA all-around title and a third-
consecutive national title. 
But she went out with one last 
bang Sunday — a 9.9625 on ﬂ  oor 
in the individual event ﬁ  nals to capture her ﬁ  rst ever NCAA ﬂ  oor 
title. Teammates and competitors 
alike congratulated her as she 
walked off the ﬂ  oor for the ﬁ  nal 
time as a Gator.
Bridget Sloan’s back-
to-back perfect 10s on 
bars
If you started watching Gator 
gymnastics from senior night 
forward, you would have never 
known junior Bridget Sloan had 
missed half of the season with a 
sprained ankle. 
After being reinserted into the 
bars lineup on Feb. 20 and scor-ing a 9.900 and two 9.975s in the A season in review: Top ﬁ  ve moments from the three-peat
UF won title Saturday
SEE GYM,  PAGE 15
T  he No. 6 Florida baseball 
team is three-quarters of the way through the regular season. With 
just 14 games — including tonight's midweek against Bethune-Cookman —  before the postseason, here are three questions the Gators still have:
Can the offense continue its 
high-octane production?
While coach Kevin O’Sullivan prides 
himself on pitching and defense, there’s no denying that Florida’s offense has been a crucial factor in its success this year. The Gators are 15th in Division I baseball with a .307 team batting average and ninth with a .478 slugging mark. That has to do in large part to Florida’s consistency up and down the lineup. Seven of UF’s eight 
starters with a minimum of 100 
at-bats are hitting at least .303 
on the season and have an on-
base percentage of .370. 
Florida has seen power 
surges from junior Harri-son Bader and freshman JJ 
Schwarz, who have combined 
for almost as many home runs 
this season (24) as UF did as a 
team in 2014 (26). If Florida wants to reach 
Omaha, that needs to continue.
Are the road woes over?
Heading into UF’s three-game series 
against Mississippi State last weekend, one 
of Florida’s biggest weaknesses was playing away from the conﬁ  nes of McKethan Sta-dium.
In 12 road games heading into the series 
in Starkville, the Gators accumulated a .248 Three questions for the UF baseball 
team heading into the ﬁ  nal stretch
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126By Luis T orres
Alligator Writer
@LFTorresIII
Rod Johnson’s life changed on April 3.
In one play, his football career was ﬁ  n-
ished.
During a scrimmage on April 3, John-
son went down with what was originally thought to be a stinger.
It was much worse than that.
UF doctors diagnosed Johnson with con-
genital cervical stenosis, which is the nar-
rowing of the spinal canal enveloping the spinal cord, not allowing enough ﬂ  uid to gather around the spinal cord to protect it 
from injury.
Football can be a cruel sport.
But Johnson is taking a glass-half-full 
approach.
He will have a role on the football team 
as a student assistant.Here’s his full statement:“Spinal Stenosis   -- April 3, 2015 -- the 
day that changed my life. It’s hard to walk away from this game, and it’s dearly easy to fall in love with when you have the right 
mindset and dedication. 
"I enjoyed my time as 
a Gator from the ﬁ  rst day I got that call from Coach Muschamp. I instantly fell in love with a school 
I didn’t like since I was a 
kid (lol). 
"I had a tough time 
trying to enroll due to my grades. I pulled through with the love and support from the 
UF staff. Taking the redshirt my ﬁ  rst year was rough, so going into my freshman year I took it more serious. 
"Listening to coach Summers coach and Injured UF oﬀ  ensive lineman 
relishes new opportunities
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15Johnson
THE BULLS PLA Y 
IN MILWAUKEE ON 
THURSDA Y.
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
@Graham311
 
With the ﬁ  rst weekend of the 
playoffs in the books, nine former Gators are hoping to make it out of 
the ﬁ  rst round. 
The No. 3 seed in the Eastern 
Conference, the Chicago Bulls, de-
feated the No. 6 seed Milwaukee Bucks 91-82 on Monday night in 
Chicago. 
Joakim Noah, who was restricted 
to 32 minutes per game in the regu-
lar season to keep him fresh for the playoffs, wasn’t the force the Bulls 
were used to seeing in the paint in 
the ﬁ  rst two games of the series. 
Noah had just six points to go 
along with 11 rebounds on Saturday 
in the ﬁ  rst game of the series, and 
he followed up that performance by 
scoring six points again on Monday 
night. 
The Bulls won’t play again until 
Thursday night at 8 when the teams 
travel to Milwaukee to play the next 
two games in the series.
Chandler Parsons, who signed a 3-year, $46 million contract with Dallas in the offseason, scored 10 
points on Saturday but the Maver-icks couldn’t beat the Houston Rock-ets, inevitably falling 118-108. 
Parsons was drafted by the Rock-
ets in the second round of the 2011 NBA draft and he quickly turned into a steal for Houston. 
Despite the loss of Parsons, and 
missing star center Dwight Howard for 41 games, the Rockets have been one of the most surprising teams in the NBA this season. 
The team got career performanc-
es from guard James Harden, even-tually securing the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference. 
Former Gator Corey Brewer, who 
was traded to the Rockets midway 
through the season, provided quality 
scoring down the stretch for Hous-ton on Saturday. He scored 13 of his 15 points in the fourth quarter.
Bradley Beal probably didn’t 
have the playoff performance he would have liked, but it was the re-sult he wanted. 
The Washington Wizards top-
pled the Toronto Raptors in Game 1 of the ﬁ  rst round of the NBA Play-offs on Saturday, with Beal provid-ing some necessary scoring for the Wizards. 
Beal shot just 6-for-23 from the 
ﬁ  eld in the overtime victory, but he ﬁ  nished with 19 points. 
The third-year guard out of Flor-
ida also locked down Raptors guard Kyle Lowry. Lowry ﬁ  nished with just seven points in 33 minutes be-fore fouling out with 2:30 remaining in the fourth quarter. The teams tip-off tonight at 8, and the Wizards are hoping to head home to D.C. with two road victories. 14  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015
AP Photo
Chicago Bulls center Joakim Noah celebrates with Jimmy Butler and Mike Dunleavy after Butler scored a basket during Chicago’s 103-91 win over the Milwaukee Bucks in Game 1 of the NBA playoffs on Saturday. 
GATORS IN THE NBA
Former Gators providing quality minutes in NBA playoﬀ  s
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
 
Former UF quarterback Tim 
Tebow signed a one-year contract with the Philadelphia Eagles on Monday afternoon. As he looks for 
another opportunity to resurrect his 
football playing career, here’s a look back at his time in the NFL: 
April 22, 2010:  The Denver 
Broncos selected Tebow with the 25th overall pick of the 2010 NFL Draft. Oct. 17, 2010:  Tebow 
scored his ﬁ  rst career NFL touchdown, reaching the endzone on a 5-yard rush during Denver’s 24-20 loss 
to the New York Jets. 
Nov. 14, 2010:  
Tebow completes his ﬁ  rst 
career pass, a 3-yard touch-down during the third quarter of Denver’s 49-29 win against the Kan-
sas City Chiefs. 
Dec. 19, 2010:  With postsea-
son dreams out of sight and three 
games left in the regular season, the Broncos named Tebow 
the starting quarterback for their game against the Oak-land Raiders. He ﬁ  nished 
the regular season 1-2 as a 
starter, completing 49.4 per-cent of his passes for 651 yards.
Oct. 9, 2011: After 
backing up Kyle Orton through Den-ver’s ﬁ  rst four games, Tebow was thrust into the starting role to start the second half of Denver’s 29-24 
loss to the San Diego Chargers. He 
started the rest of the regular season, leading the Broncos to a 7-4 record in the ﬁ  nal 11 regular-season games.
Jan. 8, 2012:  Tebow won 
his ﬁ  rst postseason victory after leading Denver to a 29-23 overtime win against the Pittsburgh Steelers, throwing an 80-yard touchdown 
pass to Demaryius Thomas on the 
overtime play.
March 21, 2012:  After Den-
ver signed Peyton Manning to be its starting quarterback, the Broncos traded Tebow and a seventh round draft pick to the New York Jets for 
the Jets’ fourth and sixth round picks.
2012 season: Tebow was 
used mainly in a Wildcat role during 
his year with the Jets, completing 6 of 8 passes for 39 yards and gaining 102 yards on 32 rushing attempts.
April 29, 2013:  The Jets re-
leased Tebow.
June 11, 2013:  The New Eng-
land Patriots signed Tebow to a two-year contract with no guaranteed money.
Aug. 31, 2013:  The Patriots 
released Tebow after struggling dur-ing the four-game preseason.Flashback: A look at Tim Tebow’s history in the NFL
T ebow
next three weeks, the 2008 Olympian finally 
broke through on senior night, scoring the 
first perfect 10 on bars of her career against 
Texas Woman’s University. 
The perfect mark gave her a 10 in all four 
events for her career. She then followed that up the next week with another perfect 10 on 
bars in the SEC Championships — the first 
ever 10 by a Gator in the competition and 
the first perfect mark on bars in the competi-
tion’s history.Alex McMurtry scores perfect 
10 in just her second collegiate 
meet
Right from the start, Alex McMurtry let 
everyone know she was about to have a spe-
cial freshman season. 
In just the second meet of her career and 
her debut in the O’Connell Center on Jan. 
16, McMurtry scored a perfect 10 on vault against Auburn, making her the quickest 
gymnast to record a perfect 10 in school 
history. By the end of the regular season, 
the freshman led the nation on vault with a 
9.960 Regional Qualifying Score.Ericha Fassbender wins all-
around against Arkansas
Freshman Ericha Fassbender only had 
one opportunity to compete for an all-
around title this season. She made the most 
of it. On the road at Arkansas, Fassbender 
took home the all-around title with a 39.375, 
including a 9.850 bars performance in fresh-man’s first competitive routine in the event 
that season. The Gators were without Sloan 
and freshman Kennedy Baker that night, 
and McMurtry and Hunter had less-than-
stellar performances, but Fassbender’s per-
formance carried Florida to victory.TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF sophomore right-handed pitcher Dane Dunning prepares to throw a pitch during Florida's 7-4 
win against Alabama on March 28 at McKethan Stadium.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF junior Bridget Sloan celebrates after recording a perfect 10 on the uneven parallel bars during the 2015 Southeastern Conference Championships on March 21 in Duluth, Georgia. Sloan recorded perfect scores on the bars in back-to-back weeks to become the first Gator gymnast with a perfect score on all four events during her college career.
batting average. That number dips to .210 when only looking at the nine games against Southeastern Confer-ence opponents or teams that were ranked in the top 25 at the time. 
But in the Gators’ three-game 
sweep of the Bulldogs, UF posted a 
collective .296 batting average, just 
shy of its .298 conference hitting clip. 
Obviously one series — espe-
cially one against a team that’s only won a third of its conference games 
— isn’t a large enough sample size to 
make any sort of predictions, but if the Gators can carry this momentum 
into the home stretch of the regular 
season, it might be the difference 
maker.
Is the pitching rotation 
solidified?
O’Sullivan was hesitant to change 
up his starting rotation from Day 
1. He said time and time again the 
Gators would not be the best they 
could be if they didn’t have the 
sophomore trio of Logan Shore, A.J. 
Puk and Dane Dunning opening on 
the mound. 
Shore and Dunning have held 
their own. The former has tossed two complete games in the last three 
weeks and boasts a 2.29 ERA. The 
latter is 4-1 on the year and is hold-
ing opponents to a .214 batting aver-age. 
Puk, on the other hand, has been 
a different story. The lefty was sus-pended last week along with team-mate Kirby Snead after being ar-rested for reportedly trespassing a posted construction site. But even before the arrest and subsequent suspension, Puk has not been reli-able when drawing the start. His 5.87 ERA is worst among UF’s start-ers and second worst on the staff.
In Puk’s absence, O’Sullivan has 
put freshman Alex Faedo into the starting rotation through the last two weekends. He responded by giv-ing up just four earned runs in 10 innings of work while striking out eight batters compared to just one walk. 
Senior Bobby Poyner and junior 
Taylor Lewis have also become UF’s go-to closers. The duo, along with Shore, are the only UF pitchers who have tossed more than 20 innings this year and have a sub-2.50 ERA. 
Don’t be surprised if O’Sullivan 
makes some rotation changes in the coming weeks, but for now, he has what he needs.COLUMN,  from pg 13Gators need consistency out of pitching staff moving forward
GYM,  from pg 13Sloan, McMurtry both posted perfect 10s
trusting his technique made me a great of-
fensive lineman and I always had heart, of course. It’s a tough time as I try to move for-
ward, but I still have some positives on the 
situation. I get to stand and talk to you instead of being in a wheelchair. 
"I would like to say thanks to the coach-
ing staff from coach Mac all the way down to the graduate assistants. Being in a highly powered offense, I wanted to prove I was a 
great athlete even when my knee bothered me 
sometimes. 
"(I'm) looking forward to what the future 
brings, I look to be a great assistant coach and make sure these 2015 offensive lineman know 
what it takes to be a Gator, and for that, I love 
Gator Nation. You turned me from a boy to a man. I want to see my teammates be great because it can be taken away from you in just 
one play.”
Johnson played in all 12 games last season 
and was expected to be one of the key cogs 
on a depleted offensive line heading into the 2015 season.FOOTBALL,  from pg 13Johnson will 
be a student 
assistant coach
"(I'm) looking forward to what the future 
brings, I look to be a great assistant coach 
and make sure these 2015 offensive lineman 
know what it takes to be a Gator, and for 
that, I love Gator Nation."
Rod Johnson
UF offensive linemanBy Alex Maminakis
Alligator Writer
@alexmaminakis
 
Jim Darcangelo answered a 
phone call from back home in Mary-land. It was his wife, Marilyn. 
Their pipes were frozen.
“That’s why we’re down here,” 
Darcangelo said.
Darcangelo owns a home in Co-
coa Beach, Florida, about 170 miles 
southeast of Gainesville.
But he isn’t just a snowbird who 
ﬂ  ies down to Florida to escape the winter. His daughter, Sam, is a ju-nior midﬁ  elder for the Gators’ la-
crosse team.
He wants to watch his daughter 
play. And he isn’t the only parent 
who shares that sentiment.
Florida’s roster has 31 players, 27 
of whom are from out of state. Most come from states such as Maryland 
and New York.
But being hundreds, sometimes 
thousands, of miles away from their 
daughters at the University of Flori-da doesn’t stop the players’ parents 
from seeing them play.
Some ﬂ  y. Some drive. Some, like 
Darcangelo, have decided to live in 
Florida part time. 
Many make the trip each week, 
whether it be a home game in Gainesville or an away game some-where closer to their actual home. Others make the trip when time al-
lows them to do so.
“My dad and my mom have al-
ways been super supportive of me, and I don’t think they’ve ever missed 
a game since I’ve been at Florida,” said Sam, a Freeland, Maryland, native. “I remember one time, my freshman year, they told me that they weren’t going to make it to a game, and then I looked up and my dad was in the stands waving to me. It’s really cute, it’s really nice and I appreciate it a lot.”
At every Florida home game, 
players wave into the stands from either the bench or the ﬁ  eld with a big smile on their face to whomever is there cheering for them that day. 
“I really appreciate it,” said fresh-
man Allie Pavinelli, from Northport, New York. “It’s hard being away from home. I deﬁ  nitely love it here, 
but you get that sense of home when 
they (her parents) come down and visit me and it’s just really good to see them every time they come down because I don’t see them very often.”
Pavinelli said her parents and 
younger siblings attended Florida’s home game against Loyola on March 3. It was the only game her siblings 
could make because they were on 
spring break that week, so they took the opportunity to come down and see their older sister. 
Moving across the country to a 
school where they don’t know any-
body can be tough, especially for the 
younger players. It helps to see a fa-miliar face or two each week.
Mollie Stevens, from Centreville, 
Maryland, is a sophomore now, but she said during her freshman year 
her parents came to most of her 
games, which made her transition to college easier for her.
“It deﬁ  nitely helped me because 
I’m a baby. I love having my parents around,” Stevens said. 
“It’s pretty far, but I love having 
them at my games, so it means a lot to me that they make the effort to come to most of them. I just re-ally like playing in front of them, it makes me feel better and feel more 
comfortable.” 
The players have gotten to know 
other parents, the parents have got-
ten close among themselves, and the entire atmosphere of the program has become so tight because of those connections around the team.“Since I’m a freshman, I don’t 
really know many people on the team,” Pavinelli said, “but all the parents are so nice and supportive. Even parents that I don’t even know will come up to me after the games and say how well I played, and I don’t even know whose parents they are.”
Stevens said her high school la-
crosse team was nowhere near as close as the Gators are now.
This type of interaction between 
the players, parents and the commu-nity that has been engulfed the Flor-ida lacrosse program is unordinary.Coach Amanda O’Leary loves 
that her players’ parents are involved with the team and travel to games.
“The parents are certainly a part 
of (the team culture), because they are involved, and that’s a good thing,” O’Leary said. “It’s nice for our players to have that support, it’s nice for us as coaches to have that support as well.”
O’Leary said seeing their families 
after games can help the players if they happen to have a tough game.
 Sometimes it’s easier to complain 
to your parents than your coaches. 
“I think (the parents’) support is really unique, probably, for a school that’s so far away from the majority of where their student-athletes are going to school,” O’Leary said. “We have so many parents that do travel, and it’s wonderful.”
For Jim Darcangelo, a man who 
played lacrosse until 1990, he said his whole life has been around the sport. That hasn’t changed now that Sam is playing for the Gators.
“I’ve had a lot of fun with (la-
crosse), it’s been really close to me, close to my heart,” Jim said, “and that’s where the Gators are now, close to my heart.”16  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator
UF lacrosse players celebrate during Florida’s 18-4 win against Georgetown on April 4 at Donald 
R. Dizney Stadium. 
LACROSSE
A Family Aﬀ  air: Florida lacrosse team embraces support