VOLUME 109 ISSUE 116 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Read the rest of the District 1 candidate proﬁ  les
The City Commission election is on Tuesday, pg 8.  
Obama urges support for Student Aid Bill of Rights
Read his guest column, pg 7. Dalton Guthrie 
and the UF baseball 
team begin SEC play 
against Tennessee. 
Read the story on 
page 16.
Racers ready to burn rubber at 2015 
Gatornationals
It’s in Gainesville this weekend, pg. 14.
84/64
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  12SPORTS 13SAMANTHA GUTMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Some UF graduate assistants 
will be rallying today on Turl-
ington Plaza to make it known 
they’re not OK with paying to work.Members of UF Graduate 
Assistants United will hold a 
“Spring Broke” rally at 1 p.m. to 
support graduate assistant fee re-lief.
The chapter hopes to engage 
students by highlighting the 
union’s goal to ﬁ  ght for better em-ployment conditions to contrib-
ute to UF’s “Rise to Preeminence” 
campaign, said John Hames, co-
president of GAU.
The organization consists of 
nearly 4,000 graduate and teach-
ing assistants at UF who have 
long been ﬁ  ghting for better em-ployment conditions at UF.
“The tuition waiver we get, the 
health care package we get — that 
was because members of GAU or-
ganized and fought for those ben-eﬁ  ts,” Hames said.
Hames will speak at the rally 
in addition to Paul Ortiz, UF asso-
ciate professor of history and rep-
resentative for the United Faculty of Florida. There will also be free pizza and a satirical performance based on the serious issue of these 
fees, according to a press release.
Schools such as the University 
of Michigan and University of 
California, Berkeley, require their graduate assistants to pay only 2 
percent of annual fees. UF, how-
ever, requires assistants to pay at ‘Spring Broke’: graduate assistants rally against fees today
LILIANNE BUSTO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Stephanie Elkin said she’d eat a cheese-
burger if she raised $2,000 for Dance Mar-
athon. The decade-long vegetarian sur-passed that goal by $250.
Elkin, a UF marketing sophomore, is 
one of hundreds of students focused on fundraising for this weekend’s 21st annual Dance Marathon, a 26.2-hourlong event beneﬁ  ting UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital.
Last year, 20-year-old Elkin donated 12 
inches of her hair to make wigs for chil-dren who lost their hair in treatment.
“I ended up raising $2,000 and dyeing 
my hair to celebrate,” she said.
Eager to reach this year’s goal, she said 
she wanted to do something crazy. For her, that’s eating a burger.
Dance Marathon is usually held in 
April, but it will be from 11:20 a.m. Satur-day to 1:20 p.m. Sunday to work around the Stephen C. O’Connell Center’s previ-ous renovation schedule.
Melissa Dukes, the UF Dance Marathon 
public relations overall director, said 50 percent of the money raised will go to-ward research and treatment, and the oth-er 50 percent will go toward new facilities and equipment.
She said there is no set goal of how 
much the organization hopes to raise.
“Every dollar is raised for the kids and 
goes to the kids,” Dukes said.
A vegetarian in support of animal 
rights, Elkin said she does not regret her decision. However, she will not be touch-ing the cheeseburger until after the event.DM starts Saturday, continues unconventional traditionsSEE GRAD, PAGE 4
 IT IS THE FIRST IN A SERIES OF SCIENCE EXHIBITS.
CAITLIN OSTROFF
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents can now explore climate change over the 
past 70 million years at the Florida Museum of Natural History’s 
“Our Changing Climate: Past and Present” exhibit.
The free museum exhibit opened March 4 amid allegations that 
Florida Gov. Rick Scott told the Florida Department of Environ-
mental Protection not to use the term “climate change” in reports.
“We are dismayed to hear that that was something the gover-
nor and his staff decided not to use and instructed the DEP not to 
use,” said Darcie MacMahon, the museum’s head of exhibits.
The exhibit uses graphs to highlight climate change research.Julie Waters, an exhibit developer and research assistant for the 
museum, said it will include the age of the dinosaurs, the arrival of humans and the time periods of great civilizations.
“We’ve added in key events that we think will be interesting to 
visitors,” Waters said.
This is the ﬁ  rst in a series of exhibits exploring science and 
world issues, such as invasive species, air quality and biodiversity — issues speciﬁ  c to Florida, Waters said.
Regardless of the disagreements surrounding what caused cli-
mate change, MacMahon said it’s important for Floridians to learn the effects of climate change.
“There is no controversy in the science community regarding 
climate change,” MacMahon said.Florida Museum 
opens climate exhibit
CAMPUSAaron Albright / Alligator
First ’n’ Fierce 
Members of the Filipino Student Association perform during the Volunteers for International Student 
Affairs talent show on Thursday night at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center. The organization took home ﬁ  rst place in the talent competition.
It will be on Turlington Plaza at 1 p.m.News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 116 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
SUNNY
82/55PARTLY 
CLOUDY
81/54RAIN
84/63PARTLY 
CLOUDY
84/63CLOUDY
84/64
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. CORRECTIONS
An article published on Thursday under the headline “Growler bills hold promis-ing changes for Florida craft beer industry” incorrectly stated the breweries can sell 28-ounce growlers. The cor-rect size is 32 ounces. In the same story, it was stat-ed that Brandon Nappy said the portion of the law about 
Florida tourism was a loop-
hole. It should’ve stated that Nappy said critics say it is a loophole.
An article published 
Monday under the headline “Citizen’s Co-op offers apol-ogy, back pay to dismissed WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Pi Day 2015 at UF
Come out and celebrate Pi 
Day a day early from 11:45 a.m. to 3 p.m. today at the Marston Science Library and 
CSE Building overhang. Dean 
of University Libraries Judith Russell and Provost Dr. Joseph Glover will kick off the event at 11:45 a.m., followed by tabling, pie fundraising, contests and refreshments. An awards cere-mony and closing remarks will be held at 2:45 p.m. This event is 
free and open to the public.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.workers” incorrectly stated 
that four members were fired. Five members were fired. 
The same story stated that the 
members were fired for incor-
rectly using the Co-op’s email 
database to send out a mes-sage about unionizing. This 
was the reason given by the 
Co-op. The National Labor 
Relations Board determined 
the employees were unjust-ly fired for trying to form a 
union.2, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr Saliq
FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Depot Avenue
A section of Depot Avenue between South-
west Sixth Street and Southwest Ninth Street 
is under reconstruction. 
This is the second segment of a project that 
will include a two-lane divided roadway with landscaped medians and three roundabouts at the Southwest 11th Street, Southwest Sixth Street and Main Street intersections, according 
to the City of Gainesville Public Works Proj-
ects.
There is a detour about 1 mile long for pe-
destrians, Chip Skinner, the public informa-tion ofﬁ  cer for the City of Gainesville Public 
Works Department, wrote in an email.
An accessible walkway will be installed in 
the coming weeks to allow access to the areas around the construction zone, including the bus stop at the corner of Depot Avenue and Southwest Ninth Street, Skinner said.
Project completion is set for August 2016.
Northwest Sixteenth Avenue
The 4-mile Northwest 16th Avenue proj-
ect continues this month with nighttime lane closures along the road and daytime lane clo-sures at Northwest 51st Street, according to a press release.A segment running from Northwest 31st 
Drive to Northwest 22nd Street has been re-duced to two lanes, according to the release.
Trafﬁ  c patterns will also be regularly al-
tered from about Northwest 58th Boulevard to Northwest 54th Terrace.
Brian Singleton, Alachua County trans-
portation engineering manager, said the roadwork makes it more difﬁ  cult for the side streets to get in and out.
Drivers should be able to use all four lanes 
by the end of May.
Interstate 75
A yearlong resurfacing project will begin within the next two weeks on Interstate 75 just 
north of U.S. 441 (Exit 399) to the Columbia County line at the Santa Fe River Bridge, ac-cording to a press release.
The 9-mile project will close one lane Sun-
day through Thursday between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. Repaving the center lane will require two lane closures at night between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m. Lane closures will not exceed 2 miles, and the speed limit will be reduced to 60 mph in those areas.
Rebecca White, Florida Department of 
Transportation spokeswoman, said there 
will be no lane closures during the weekend, 
which is when trafﬁ  c is heaviest.Works in progress: road construction around Gainesville4, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015
So far GAU has a 
$40 fee relief, but 
is rallying for more
least $1,400 per school year, regardless of income differ-
ences, according to a GAU report.
The organization’s research shows this flat fee leads 
approximately 44.9 percent of all graduate assistants to meet the federal threshold to financially qualify for Medicaid.
Diana Moreno, GAU chief coordinator, said she feels 
the fees are unfair.
“Many of us are parents, trying to provide for a fam-
ily,” said Moreno. “Unfortunately, our stipend right now isn’t enough to do so, and with the fees it becomes an issue of poverty.”
Hames said graduate assistants are, in many cases, 
the face of the university because their work plays an integral role. This notion led GAU to negotiate with UF for a $40 fee relief in the form of a rebate, in addition to a $2,000 increase in stipends for assistants working 20 hours per week for the 2014-2015 school year.
The small fee relief led GAU to create a Facebook 
campaign and advertise #UFGAUSpringBroke. Mem-bers were encouraged to post what they would do if they didn’t have to pay GA fees.
Moreno said many submissions were from people 
who want to get their teeth checked, need new eye-glasses or want to visit family they haven’t seen in a while.
“These are the kind of stories that broke my heart,” 
she said, “but at the same time they highlight the im-portance of why the university needs to pay attention to this issue.”GRAD , from page 1
Sydney Dixon / Alligator
Chicken is Served
Gabrielle Beecher, a 20-year-old UF journalism and marketing sophomore and director of research of Action SG, serves Chick-fil-A to Missy Olguin (left), a 21-year-old UF biology junior, as part of Student Government’s Lunch on the Lawn event on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday. The event was a way for SG to hear students’ opinions.
X-ray - Courtesy to the Alligator
Pictured is the new digital radiography X-ray machine located in UF Student Health Care Center. Costing approximately $150,000, the machine can produce thumbnail images of X-rays four to five sec-onds after the X-ray is taken.
 THE SYSTEM GIVES INSTANT RESULTS.
TYLER MCLENNAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
X-ray images will be available more quickly 
with the UF Student Health Care Center’s new 
digital radiography X-ray machine.
Installed Tuesday, the approximately 
$150,000 machine is easier and faster to use, said 
Catherine Seemann, SHCC communications co-
ordinator.
Digital radiography is becoming the stan-
dard because of its efficiency, Seemann said.
Before, the SHCC used a computer radiog-
raphy system that required images to be pro-cessed, said Joan Street, SHCC radiology man-
ager.
The image goes straight from the machine 
into the computer with digital radiography. 
Street said the new machine produces thumb-
nail images four to five seconds after the X-ray 
is taken.
“It’s all combined into one machine with 
one step,” Street said. “Now we know instan-
taneously whether we have to take another pic-
ture right while the patient is still in the room.”
The machine’s U-Arm design can be manipu-
lated for patients standing or sitting.
People don’t like the idea of having to climb 
up on a table and lie down, Street said. If the technologists could examine the patients in a 
chair or standing, they would feel more in con-
trol.SHCC gets new, 
X-ray machine for efficiency
CRESONIA HSIEH
Alligator Contributing Writer
Floral gowns, animal ears and athletic jerseys 
were party-goers’ clothing of choice at Wednesday 
night’s Purim celebration.
Purim is a day of celebration in the Jewish reli-
gion, and people are expected to dress in costume.
Although Purim landed during UF’s Spring 
Break this year, the Jewish Student Union held the post-Purim celebration to kick off the annual Jewish Awareness Month. It was the first of this month’s seven events, following the kick-off flash mob.
The event featured the official band of Rockeys 
Dueling Piano Bar, juggler and comedian David Ferman from season eight of “America’s Got Tal-ent,” a photo booth and a variety of traditional 
snacks like pita and hummus and hamantaschen 
cookies.
Students can expect Mediterranean food and Is-
raeli music at the Night in the Negev event as well as a presentation from Israeli Defense Force Sgt. Benjamin Anthony, said Jamie Brecher, the month’s director of public relations and a 19-year-old UF mechanical engineering sophomore.
The Jewish Student Union holds Jewish Aware-
ness Month to create a home-away-from-home experience for fellow Jewish students and to share their culture, said Jonah Stein, 19, director of pro-gramming and a UF biochemistry sophomore.
“I just have a passion for my religion and for my 
culture,” Stein said, “and I like to share that with the 
Student Body here as much as possible.”Students kick off 
Jewish Aware-ness MonthFRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Heartbreaker
Stan Lynch, the former drummer and a founding member of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, speaks 
to a crowd at the Matheson Museum on Thursday. “Life happens in the cracks for artists,” he said. “It’s keeping your antennae up and seeing what’s happening around you.”
SAVANA MORIE
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is making space for a new in-
novative space for the humanities.
The Smathers Libraries are cel-
ebrating the opening of the Scott 
Nygren Scholars Studio on Monday.
The studio is a collaborative space in Library West for students, faculty and researchers to design and create digital advances within the humanities ﬁ  eld. The space is equipped with new technology and will encourage teamwork.
Laurie Taylor, the digital scholar-
ship librarian at UF, said the studio will be beneﬁ  cial for campus.“It provides a collaborative space 
for people who are already doing digital humanities and digital schol-arship work,” she said, “and it gives them more technology for doing that work.”
The studio was named in honor 
of the late UF English professor Scott Nygren, who passed away in March 2014. The project took about a year.
“This was a really nice oppor-
tunity to honor and remember (Nygren) and remember his spirit,” Taylor said.
Kenneth Kidd, the UF English 
department chairman, wrote in an 
email that Nygren was a beloved 
teacher who promoted innovation and collaboration.
“It is the kind of enterprise that 
Professor Nygren loved and em-bodied,” he said, “and we hope that users of the space will continue his legacy of intellectual invention and social commitment.”
The opening celebration will be 
from 1:30 to 4 p.m. in Room 212.
Humanities studio opens in Library West, honors late professorAARON ALBRIGHT
Alligator Contributing Writer
Pizzas will be at a special “pi” price at Blaze 
Pizza on Saturday in celebration of Pi Day.
All of the pizzas will be $3.14, a play on the 
never-ending irrational number.
The restaurant is also holding a contest for Pi Day.
For every 314th guest who posts a photo 
to Instagram with #BlazePizza, the restaurant will give him or her a coupon for 10 free piz-zas.
Laurie Ruggles, operating partner at Blaze, 
said she is excited for Pi Day and expects the 
turnout to be similar to the 1,300 people look-ing for free pizza at the grand opening.
“We had a line from open till close,” she 
said.
Blaze, at 3617 Archer Road, opened in Janu-
ary and specializes in personal, made-to-order 
pizzas. The restaurant chain started celebrat-ing Pi Day in 2013, Ruggles said.
However, she said this is the ﬁ  rst year Blaze has done the Instagram contest.
Bo Starr, a 20-year-old UF economics soph-
omore, has been to Blaze a few times and said he enjoys it.
“I think it’s a cool concept,” he said.Starr said although he thinks Blaze’s pizza 
is already a good deal, and getting it for $3.14 
makes it even better.Get your pizza pi for $3.14 in honor of Pi Day at local restaurant
DANA HATCHETT
Alligator Contributing Writer
A well-known cartoonist is 
in town to share the ideas be-
hind his work.
Ed Piskor, most recognized 
for his novel that was listed 
on Washington Post’s Top 10 
Graphic Novels of 2013 — “Hip Hop Family Tree” — will pres-ent at the Civic Media Center at 7 p.m. today. 
He will speak about his com-
ics, which he said intertwine hip-hop with comic culture.
Piskor grew up in Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania, and honed his artistic skills at the Kubert School in New Jersey, which specializes in cartooning and graphic art.
Piskor said he differs from 
other comic artists because of the culture he portrays in his work.
“I have a big interest in sub-
versive, underground culture,” he wrote in an email, “and hip hop ﬁ  ts neatly into this de-scription, at least in it’s earliest forms.”
Tom Hart, director of local 
comic school Sequential Artists 
Workshop, said Piskor was in 
town to teach a weeklong class at the downtown studio.
“It’s an interesting merging 
of two histories,” Hart said of Piskor’s work. 
Hart said he’s looking for-
ward to Piskor’s talk for that reason.
“His work is really artful,” 
he said, “and it’s really got a verve to it that I think a lot of hip-hop culture really gets into.”
Alligator staff writer Kathryn 
Varn contributed to this report.Popular cartoonist 
coming to GainesvilleReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
It’s been a tough week transitioning out of Spring Break, 
but at least the anti-abortion group is gone, right? Here’s your 
never-has-TGIF-been-so-true edition of
Darts & Laurels
As you may have heard, we’re in the middle of trying to 
deal with the possibility of a nuclear-powered Iran. There are 
essentially two options to choose from: We, along with the ﬁ  ve other countries that make up the P5+1, can try to negotiate a deal with Iran using diplomacy and compromise. Or, we could 
bomb the bejesus out of any Iranian nuclear facility, which is 
all but a guarantee of another devastating and catastrophically wasteful war in the Middle East. These tactics differ greatly, but at least they’re both proactive. In the minds of some, there is a third option: Reject any potential deal and fantasize about war with Iran. 
That’s basically the stance U.S. Sen. Tom Cotton took this 
week, when he organized a letter sent to Iran’s leaders that basi-cally said “don’t trust us” then condescendingly explained the 
U.S. constitutional system to a bunch of dudes who were mostly 
educated in the U.S. The goal here is to undermine Obama’s au-thority as well as the nuclear deal we and ﬁ  ve other countries are working on. It seems like Cotton got electrocuted while reading erotic Captain America fan ﬁ  ction by Bill O’Reilly — this move is utterly ridiculous. It won’t do anything but make the situ-ation harder to solve. Predictably, it was well-received by the kind of people who think they’re smarter than Neville Cham-berlain because they know World War II happened. Here’s a 
try-solving-problems-instead-of-torpedoing-solutions DART  
to Cotton and the 46 senators who signed this letter.
When the Sigma Alpha Epsilon chapter at Oklahoma Uni-
versity was caught chanting its rush policy on video, national 
outrage erupted at the performance of its perverse ritual. For a few tense hours, people wondered what consequences, if any, would be delivered to the obnoxious pack of racist young men. There was cause for speculation: Quite often, responses to in-cidents like these hold only individual actors accountable; the 
body or organization to which they belong survives, barely tar-
nished. But that was not the case in Oklahoma: OU’s president, David Boren, immediately disbanded the chapter and ordered its members to vacate its house. The two chant leaders in the video were expelled from the university. It’s an appropriate punishment and sends a powerful message to any other groups that would behave like the former SAE at OU. We’re giving a LAUREL to President Boren for giving these disgraceful big-ots what they deserve.
That said, we have to face up to an idea common in our 
national dialogue that is quick to blame ﬂ  agrantly racist be-havior like this on individual drunkenness, immaturity and the so-common-they’re-almost-constant “isolated incidents.” Anything but the longstanding, pervasive presence of racism in our society. A surreal example of this happened on “Morning Joe” this week, when co-host Brzezinski criticized rapper Waka Flocka Flame for taking issue with the SAE boys, even though he uses profanity in his music. A guest commenter agreed, com-
plaining about rap music and saying “people are surprised that 
some drunk 19-year-old kids repeat what they’ve been hear-ing.” Yeah, blame black musicians for the pro-lynching chant. Never mind that it’s been heard at other SAE chapters across the country and probably predates hip-hop altogether; respon-sibility belongs to musicians who swear too much for Brzezin-ski’s taste. We’re giving Morning Joe a DART for that one.
42 TOTAL VOTES19% YES
81% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgThursday’s question: Did you participate 
in the protest against Created Equal?Today’s question: Are you participating in Dance Mara-
thon?Sex health as important as other issues
Welcome back, spring breakers! I hope that by now 
your hangover has worn off and you’ve started the countdown until summer.
While many of you spent your break getting tan on 
a cruise or getting drunk at Panama City Beach, I was at 
home with latex slushies taped to my back. And yes, before 
you ask, it’s every bit as sensual as it sounds.
Let me explain. The latex slushies — probably not the 
scientiﬁ  cally correct term — were part of an allergy patch test I did last week to test for, you guessed it, latex.
It started a few years ago when I would have allergic 
reactions to my bathing suits or to things made out of spandex-like material. I didn’t think much of it, as it didn’t bother me too much, so I brushed off the issue.
But in the past few months, I started to have reactions 
to latex condoms. That’s when I became concerned. I guess my reasoning was that I didn’t care if something affected my regular everyday life, but as soon as it messes with my sex life, we’ve got a problem.
So I started using non-latex condoms — which, by the 
way, are really awesome even if you’re not allergic to latex — and started visiting doctors to get the problem ﬁ  gured out.
Which is where my story turns into an important mes-
sage: Please, talk to your doctor. More speciﬁ  cally, please talk to your doctor about your sexual health.
Normally when you go to the doctor, it’s for things like a 
cold or because you broke a bone — and not the one I want you to talk to your doctor about. It’s not as common to think about doctor visits for sex-related reasons.
Not everyone has the means to visit a doctor. If you do, 
please take advantage of that privilege.
I get it. It can be super embarrassing to talk about sex 
with your health care provider, who is in most ways a stranger to you. No one wants to tell a stranger, “Hey, yeah, so I have this weird rash and, uh, do you mind looking at it and telling me if I have herpes?”
If you are truly too uncomfortable with your doctor, ﬁ  nd 
a new one if that’s an option, or see if there’s a different per-son at the same medical practice who can see you.Make sure you are comfort-
able discussing these topics with your doctor because sexual health issues are just as important as any other health issue. You would go 
to the doctor if you had bronchi-
tis; go to the doctor if you have an STI. You would go to the doctor if you had problems seeing, so go the doctor if you have problems getting hard.
Your sexual health should be important to you as a re-
sponsible — all right, semi-responsible — adult. Plus, your sexual health directly affects your quality of life. If you have 
an issue that’s making sex painful or more difﬁ  cult than it 
should be, you probably won’t have sex as often, which probably won’t be as fun for you.
So what should you talk to your health care provider 
about? It could be something directly related to sex, like difﬁ  culties getting or maintaining an erection, lack of self-lubrication or decreased sex drive.
It could be something that you don’t think is a big deal 
now but could develop into a much larger issue later. After 
my allergy test conﬁ  rmed I wasn’t allergic to latex, my doc-
tor suggested I might be allergic to semen, which would be a real boner-killer — literally.
It could be something that you think is unrelated to sex-
uality. A lot of health concerns affect sex and vice versa, so make sure to tell your doctor anything that might affect your health history.
So here’s some advice: Relax. No matter how weird your 
health concern, your doctor has heard and seen worse. And 
as embarrassing or awkward as it may be, the appointment 
won’t last forever, but a health problem may.
If I can make it through an appointment of sitting shirt-
less in a cold exam room with tape on my back and looking up condom ingredients with my very old doctor, you can do it too.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism junior. Her column appears 
on Fridays.FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
In an economy increasingly built on in-
novation, the most important skill you can sell is your knowledge. That’s why 
higher education is, more than ever, the surest ticket to the middle class.
But just when it’s never been more im-
portant, it’s also never been more expen-
sive. The average undergrad who borrows 
to pay for college ends up graduating with about $28,000 in student loan debt. 
That’s why my Administration has 
worked hard to make college more af-
fordable. We expanded tax credits and 
Pell Grants, enacted the largest reforms to the student loan program in history, and fought to keep interest rates on student 
loans low. We’ve acted to let millions of 
graduates cap loan payments at 10 per-cent of their incomes, so they don’t have to choose between paying the rent and paying back their debt. I’ve sent Congress 
my plan to bring the cost of community 
college down to zero because two years of higher education should be as free and universal as high school is today. 
And this week, I unveiled 
another way that we can help more Americans afford col-lege. It doesn’t involve any 
new spending or bureaucracy. 
It’s a simple declaration of values — a Stu-dent Aid Bill of Rights. 
It says: Every student deserves access 
to a quality, affordable education. Every 
student should be able to access the re-
sources to pay for college. Every borrower has the right to an affordable repayment plan. And every borrower has the right to 
quality customer service, reliable informa-
tion, and fair treatment, even if they strug-gle to repay their loans. 
That’s it. Just a few simple principles. 
But there’s a lot that colleges, lenders, and 
the people you send to Washington can 
and should do to live up to them.Consider the other actions 
I took this week. We’re creat-ing a way for borrowers to ask 
questions about their loans or 
ﬁ  le a complaint and get a fast response. We’re going to re-quire businesses that service 
loans to provide clear infor-
mation about how much students owe 
and their options for repaying it, and help them get back in good standing if they’re falling behind, with reasonable fees on a 
reasonable timeline. We’re also going to 
take a hard look at whether we need new laws to strengthen protections for all bor-rowers, wherever their loans come from.
If you believe in a Student Aid Bill of 
Rights that will help more Americans pay for a quality education, I’m asking you to visit WhiteHouse.gov/CollegeOpportu-nity. Sign your name to this declaration. 
Tell your families, friends, and fellow stu-
dents. I’m going to ask Members of Con-gress, and lenders, and as many business leaders as I can ﬁ  nd. Because making sure that students aren’t saddled with debt be-
fore they even get started in life is in all 
our interests.
This issue is personal to me. My grand-
father had a chance to go to college be-
cause this country decided that veterans 
returning from World War II should be able to afford it. My mother was able to raise two kids by herself in part because she got grants that helped pay for her edu-
cation. 
And Michelle and I are where we are 
today because of scholarships and stu-
dent loans. We didn’t come from families 
of means, but we knew that if we worked 
hard, we’d have a shot at a great educa-tion. That’s what this country gave us.
In America, a higher education cannot 
be a privilege reserved only for the few. It 
has to be available to everyone who’s will-
ing to work for it.
President Obama urges support for Student Aid Bill of RightsGuest Column
Barack Obama
As a political science 
major, it is my job to understand what moti-
vates political actors to make certain decisions. The natural inclination is to assume that political actors — like, I don’t know, let’s just say the Ari-
zona Legislature — base their 
decisions on a well-informed, rational basis — or, at the very least, a basic sense of fundamental human decency.
And then media outlets such as 
Gawker run headlines like this: “Ari-zona Completely Abandons Its Com-munity Colleges.” Well then.
Linking its story from a report 
published by Inside Higher Ed, a Washington, D.C.-based online pub-lication that primarily covers news regarding education, Gawker’s ar-ticle details how “Republican state legislators have chosen to cut support for entities that educate hundreds of thousands of the type of Arizona stu-
dents least able to pay increased tu-
ition and fees.” 
As recently as 2009, two Arizona 
community college districts, Mari-copa and Pima, received up to $59.5 million and $19.6 million dollars an-nually. But under the proposed Ari-zona education budget, they would now receive precisely $0. Yes, zero 
dollars. The Arizona Republic notes 
that these cuts stemmed from a “Re-publican legislative leaders’ rejection of a $6 or $7 increase in auto registra-tion fees at the Department of Motor Vehicles.” Yikes.
Thankfully, this draconian budget 
still needs the approval of Arizona’s 
House and Senate to be put in place. 
But even without a formal approval, the very fact that such a budget was drafted speaks volumes about the character and priorities of Arizona’s Republican Legislature.
In these polarizing times, both politicians and the laymen alike have called for more co-operation and col-laboration between the two dominating political parties in the U.S. To this I say 
no. As I mentioned 
earlier, one would think politicians, of 
all people, would be ones to act with rationality and purpose. 
The last 15 years of Republican 
legislation, and indeed, stretching back to the Reagan era and beyond, have shown the utter opposite is true. 
In our ostensibly democratic society, 
politicians are elected to serve the in-terests of their constituents. Anyone who has ever turned on a cable news network, regardless of ideology, can tell you this has not been the case for some time.
As these proposed budget cuts so 
succinctly illustrate, conservatives 
have no time for, nor interest in, the 
common man — nor do they have interest in crossing the aisle. They desire compliance, not compromise, with regards to drafting legislation. 
In case it was not abundantly 
clear: Yes, I have tremendous beef with conservative politicians. They are jive turkeys, and I sincerely hope 
that a Jay-Z/Nas-esque rivalry be-
tween conservative students and my-self emerges from the publication of this piece. As Nas wrote in “Ether,” conservative politicians “traded your soul for riches.”
I encourage anyone with a pass-
ing interest in politics or the sanc-
tity of public education to reach out 
to Arizona ofﬁ  cials and make their thoughts heard. This proposed bud-get gets a zero out of 10, would not do again.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science 
junior. His column appears on Fridays.Republican legislators in AZ 
not interested in compromiseColumn
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.orgA poll released this week 
shows Americans trust Fox News more than any 
other television news network. The notion that Americans trust 
Fox more than any other network 
demonstrates one of two things: Either Americans are very dumb, or the quality of television news across all networks is very poor. Regardless, it demonstrates that the fourth es-tate needs serious work.
Honestly, who can blame Americans when 
they’re bombarded with an array of satirical 
news websites and other sites with sources and 
headlines so dubious even the most casual ob-server of the news wouldn’t be able to separate fact from ﬁ  ction? Yet the proliferation of bogus news creates a warped sense of reality for those who can’t differentiate between what’s real and what’s not.
On the same day Quinnipiac released its 
poll about Fox, someone posted a link on Face-
book from one of those dubious news sources. 
The website claims to have insider information that President Barack Obama will shoot down Israeli jets if they attack Iran.
Source?Zbigniew Brzezinski — Jimmy Carter’s for-
mer national security adviser — allegedly said this in an interview with the Daily Beast, but the website — Yournewswire.com — provides 
no link to the interview, and they somehow 
connect the alleged quote to Obama. Why? Brzezinski supported Obama in 2008, therefore Obama wants to shoot down Israeli jets.
Another fun — or frustrating — example of 
faux news circulating the web is a report that Michelle Obama never gave birth to Sasha and Malia, the Obamas’ two daughters. Yes, the ﬁ  rst family is bogus because a so-called news web-
site can’t ﬁ  nd records of the Obama daughters 
on Ancestry.com or GenealogyBank.com; nor has anyone allegedly seen pictures of a preg-nant Mrs. Obama. Well, that does it! Clearly, the Obama kids are lizard people, sent here by the Obamas’ alien overlords to ruin America, destroy patriotism and steal your guns — thus leaving you defenseless when those aliens in-vade.
For some reason, the average social media 
user can’t seem to differentiate between real news and fake news, which creates a sizable problem if the country wants to actually solve problems. Additionally, it raises a serious question: Would the country be better off if citizens were completely uninformed rather than misinformed?
The Internet is an incredible, 
powerful tool that links us all, but the web has a dark, sinister side ﬁ  lled with falsehoods. Anyone can set up a website, post fabri-
cated news and build an audience who shares the website’s stories on Facebook pages, Twit-ter feeds and the awful comments sections featured on every news website. The lines be-
tween fact and ﬁ  ction are blurred in the race 
to go viral. Yes, citizen journalism is important — especially in parts of the world where a free press doesn’t exist — but accuracy matters.
Our news goes beyond ideological and 
partisan afﬁ  liations at this point. It represents something far more dangerous: an age of the misinformed. Fox News may push a lot of ideological commentary disguised as news, 
but we all know they’re presenting news from 
a conservative point of view. Doing this pro-vides them with ratings and an audience, even if in the process it’s convinced Grandma that Obama is from Kenya and wants to destroy the U.S.  
It’s difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  lter through the garbage, 
but if we want to better our country, it would behoove us to develop the ability to sift through 
the lies and exaggerations. A chain letter from 
your crazy uncle pushing an outrageous claim about Obama’s birthplace is one thing, but when the rubbish inﬁ  ltrates the masses via du-plicitous websites, we have a serious problem. We all know the Daily Show, Colbert Report, Last Week Tonight and the Onion are satirical, but this isn’t about satire — it’s about websites engaged in subterfuge, confusing and misin-
forming Americans.
Shove aside the lies and exaggerations told 
by talking heads like Brian Williams and Bill 
O’Reilly. Sure, it’s a juicy story, but their lies pale in comparison to the gossip and fabrica-tions sold as hard news. Don’t believe me? Scroll through your Facebook or Twitter feed today and tell me how many stories you see posted from questionable websites. The num-
ber may shock you.
Joel Mendelson is a second-year UF graduate 
student in political science. His column appears on 
Fridays.Inﬂ  ux of fabricated news 
leads to misinformed societyColumn
Joel Mendelson
opinions@alligator.orgGoston aims to lower GRU, honor past
EMILY CARDINALI
Alligator Staff Writer ecardinali@alligator.org
When he was flying in helicopters over 
the dense, dark jungle of Vietnam for the 
U.S. Army, Charles Goston learned he cannot wait for truth.
Throughout his entire life — as a kid 
growing up in a segregated Gainesville, to fighting in the Vietnam War, to helping break barriers of entry for black men and 
women into the communications world 
— he became familiar with the time and effort it takes to protect what is right, he said.
“What I’ve always had to do is stand 
up for those who are afraid to stand up for themselves,” he said.
And now, Goston said he is ready to 
stand up for the people of District 1.
Goston said one of the most important 
issues to him is lowering Gainesville Re-gional Utilities bills that he said ballooned when the Gainesville Renewable Energy Center biomass contract began.He also wants to bring the natural gas 
resources to District 1, where he was born and raised.
Growing up in the East Gainesville 
kept racism away from his immediate life. But Gainesville was a sundown town, 
he said, meaning if you were not white, 
you’d have to be out of town by the time the sun set.
“If you had to walk somewhere, you 
could guarantee that you were put into a situation where dogs were sicced on you,” he said. “You’d hear the N-word so often that you’d have to go back and ask your mom, ‘Is that a part of my name you 
didn’t tell me?’”
He saw a plethora of talented people 
fail to succeed simply because they were 
black.
“I made up my mind when I was real 
young that I was not going to do that,” he said. “I think I started reading probably when I was about maybe 5 or 6.”
His grandmother taught reading, 
which is how she met his grandfather. His grandfather was a janitor at UF and would bring National Geographic books to Gos-ton to devour as a child.
“You can go on a trip and never leave 
your surroundings,” Goston said. “But what it was doing was enlarging my in-
tellect and at the same time enlarging my 
vocabulary, giving me the opportunity to want more than the people around me who didn’t read.”
Goston took that desire and climbed 
the ranks in the Lincoln High School marching band, eventually becoming one of the Marching 100 at Florida A & M Uni-versity.
He was unable to finish his education at 
FAMU because he was drafted. But when he returned, he graduated from UF’s Col-lege of Journalism and Communications.
“Some people you meet who have high 
quality education can’t communicate,” said his friend, Ermon Owens.”They’re condescending and talk down to you. But Charles? Charles is like your average guy 
on the street, and that’s how it should be.”Jewell aims to work on jobs, transportation
MELISSA MIHM
Alligator Staff Writer mmihm@alligator.org
Lucas Jewell is the youngest candi-
date in the 2015 City of Gainesville elec-
tions.  
Jewell was born in Jacksonville and 
has lived in Gainesville on and off for 
three years. He goes to Santa Fe Col-
lege, where he is involved in Student Senate, and eventually wants to trans-fer to UF to study economics.
“I think that we shouldn’t choose 
our commissioners based on personal-
ity, but on their ideas,” the 23-year-old 
said.
While he was a U.S. Navy air traf-
fic controller, Jewell was stationed in Patuxent River, Maryland from 2010 to 2013 at a test and evaluation base.
Jewell moved to the Virginia sub-
urbs of Washington, D.C. after his years of service. For six months, Jewell par-
ticipated in anti-war and pro-marijuana 
legalization demonstrations.In D.C., Lucas noticed how many 
homeless veterans there were and be-came involved in post-traumatic stress disorder awareness and outreach.
“I think being a veteran is really 
what opened up my eyes to it,” he said.
In Gainesville, Jewell frequently vis-
its Grace Marketplace’s Dignity Village to speak with the homeless. Residents have one of his campaign signs in the village.
“That was probably one of my 
proudest moments,” he said.
One of the problems Jewell aims to 
fix is the quality of jobs. He said the 
issue isn’t so much that there aren’t 
enough jobs, but rather that those jobs are not paying sufficient wages.
If elected, Jewell said he will actively 
vote against Gainesville Regional Util-ity rate increases, which he said are among the highest in the state.
He also hopes to stop arrests for 
small amounts of marijuana. Instead of 
“locking people in cages,” Jewell wants officers to issue a notice to appear in 
court. He also wants all Gainesville law enforcement officers to be equipped with dash cameras and, eventually, body cams.
Along with making more bike paths 
throughout the city, Jewell wants to revive the East Gainesville by expand-ing public transportation. A barista at Gator Dining, Jewell said some of his coworkers walk 5 or 10 miles just to get to a bus.
Jewell’s campaign manager for the 
past few weeks, Joey Bradfield, helps him go door-to-door to talk to residents.
“Lucas and I, we get along very 
well,” the 21-year-old Santa Fe political science sophomore said. “Some people tend to brush him off because of his looks, but when you talk to him he’s a very genuine guy. He’s not afraid to ad-mit when he doesn’t know about a par-ticular topic, and I think that’s a good trait for a city commissioner to have — 
that little bit of humility.”8, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015
City Commission District 1 Candidates
EMILY CARDINALI
Alligator Staff Writer ecardinali@alligator.org
Yvonne Hinson-Rawls loves to stand at 
Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park and ad-
mire the beauty of the land in her district.
The incumbent District 1 candidate has 
pastel-colored renderings of the Paynes 
Prairie Sheetflow Restoration Project hung 
on the wall in her office at City Hall.
From that desk, she can see West Uni-
versity Avenue, which extends out to Wal-do Road. Two blocks south of Waldo Road, she lives in her district — she’s a neighbor to her constituents.
Now, Hinson-Rawls wants to represent 
them in the City Commission again.
She began her political career at Lincoln 
High School when she ran for Student Gov-ernment. Her family, who is helping her campaign now, also backed her then.
“She would run for something, and we 
would sell soda bottles and raise money for her,” said Marilyn Mack, her youngest sis-ter. They would also collect sticks from the woods around their house for their grand-mother to make caramel apples to sell.
Hinson-Rawls said she gravitated to-
ward politics during the 2008 Obama campaign. So she left to recruit volunteers in South Carolina. From that Friday to the next, a team of 15 volunteers grew to 5,000.
“I walked the streets in the rain, in the 
cold,” she said. “Me and a white guy be-cause he remembered the civil rights era, and he said, ‘We need a black and white 
team.’”
Hinson-Rawls also vividly remembers 
the civil rights era.
While she was growing up in 
Gainesville, times were changing. She re-
members the black community having its own swimming pool, its own tennis courts and its own library.
“Gainesville was segregated but very, 
very harmonious,” she said.
While she was in junior high, right 
around Martin Luther King Jr.’s rise and the Selma to Montgomery march, she worked with her uncle in a chapter of the NAACP he started.
Hinson-Rawls’ long history of work to-
ward racial equality plays out in her plat-form: What she wants most is equality for everyone. 
Marriage equality, gender equality, in-
come equality, education equality — work-ing for District 1 since 2012 has shown her inequality is an issue her district still faces.
One way she has promoted reaching an 
equal standard of living is through three successful job fairs.
The people she came across at the job 
fairs were reminiscent of her mom, who, as a single mom, worked multiple jobs to pro-vide a good life for her six children.
“I thought, the only way to a better life is 
a better job, not a second job,” she said. “We need people trained to get higher wages — 
higher paying jobs.”
“We are all somebody, and we all de-
serve a piece of the pie,” she said.Hinson-Rawls’ GNV past inspires platform
Alex Harris / Alligator Staff
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffVisit alligator.org to read the other two District 1 candidate profiles.Back
spring 2015Are you still watching “Love It or List It”?  Modern Architectural Style +   
     Finishings
  Stainless Steel Appliances
  Quartz Counter Tops
  Hardwood Style Floors  All Inclusive + Fully Furnished
  Private Balconies + 
    Open Terrace Spaces
  Roommate Matching Service
  In - Unit Washers & Dryers
   Doorman + 
    Exclusive Electronic - Key Access
  Ground Floor Retail With  
   Rooftop Pool Terrace
  Multiple Fitness Centers  Rooftop Sun deck + Outdoor 
    Shower
  Features include: Hot Tub,  
    Cabanas, Fireplace, 
    Grills + Jumbotron TV
  Study Rooms and LoungesExclusive Amenities
Premium Residences
Building Location
311 SW 13th Street
Leasing Oﬃce
1221 SW 2nd Ave #160
352 289 0021
Up to 
$1,800 for 
ﬁrst 20 to 
sign today
SOPHISTICATED DESIGN FOR BRILLIANT STUDENTSLiveAtSocial28.com2, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE,   FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015 Advertising Supplement
UF’s, Off Campus Life provides resources, 
services, education and support for the 
39,000 UF students living off campus. OCL 
aims to provide programs and services that 
will help prepare you to be a great Gator 
neighbor, here in Gainesville or wherever 
the road may take you.
Off Campus Life, which is part of UF’s Division of Student Affairs, has been providing support services and resources 
to UF students living off campus since 2004.  OCL ’s support services and resources include:
Free Online Housing Locator Service: 
Students can find off-campus hous-
ing, subleases, roommates, and informa-
tion like rent, room size, location, etc. at 
this free online site.  Go to http://housing.
offcampus.ufl.edu to use this resource.
Gator Guide to Off Campus Life:  A 
free publication that provides tips 
and resources for finding the right apart-
ment, budgeting info, safety tips, keep-
ing your electric costs low, a map of the city and much more.  T o get a copy of the Gator Guide, visit OCL ’s office at 311 
Peabody Hall or visit the OCL website at 
www.offcampus.ufl.edu. 
Monthly Newsletter: OCL sends a monthly electronic newsletter to 
all off campus students.  T opics include safety information, monthly specific re-sources and opportunities, fun stuff and much more.  If you would like to receive 
the OCL newsletter, visit the OCL website 
www.offcampus.ufl.edu and click on the newsletter link.
Off Campus Ambassadors student organization: The purpose of the Off 
Campus Ambassadors is to create a con-
nection between University of Florida 
students, both on campus and in the Gainesville community.  The OCA’s as-sist Off Campus Life with our events and 
outreach efforts.  T o learn more, visit the 
OCA webpage.  http://www.offcampus.ufl.
edu/off_campus_ambassadors/. 
Discover Gainesville: Off Campus 
Life’s newest event series, Discover Gainesville, allows you to visit local 
hotspots.  Spring events include a UF 
gymnastics meet, the Gainesville Rock Gym, hiking at Paynes Prairie and a Flor-
ida baseball game.  T o learn more about 
Discover Gainesville, follow our event on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/UFOffCampusLife or visit the OCL web-
site http://www.offcampus.ufl.edu/events. 
Learn More:  Visit our website www.
offcampus.ufl.edu for information 
about Off Campus Life’s resources and 
services.  Also, follow and like UF Off 
Campus Life on Facebook, Twitter, You-
Tube, Instagram and Pinterest for daily 
updates and reminders of OCL events, tips and fun things going on in the com-munity.FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, 3 
 Advertising Supplement
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeIf you are thinking about renting a house or apartment, 
Renter’s Insurance provides important coverage for both 
you and your possessions. A standard Renter’s Policy pro-
tects your personal property in case of theft or damage and 
may pay for temporary living expenses if your rental is dam-
aged (including loss of use). It can also shield you from personal liability. Anyone who leases a house or apartment should consider this 
type of coverage. 
T alk with your parents 
before getting your 
own renter’s policy.  If you are still ﬁ  nancially depen-dent on your parents or a 
family member and they 
own a home, they might be able to cover you under 
their homeowner’s policy.  
Some homeowner policies will cover a dependent’s rental property while in col-
lege.  There are several types 
of Residential Insurance 
policies.  Read your policy information carefully and en-sure you have full coverage.  
Policies should include the 
following items: 
 Fire or lightning 
 Windstorm or hail 
 Explosion 
 Aircraft 
 Vehicles 
 Smoke 
 Vandalism or malicious mischief 
 Theft 
 Damage by glass or safety-glazing material that 
is part of a building 
 Falling objects 
 Water-related damage from home utilities 
 Electrical surge damageFloods, earthquakes, 
and hurricanes aren’t 
on the list. If you live in an area prone to one or more of the three, you’ll need to buy 
a separate policy or a rider. 
In areas where hurricanes can pose a threat, you might also need to buy a separate rider to cover wind damage.  Ask your insurance agent about this extra coverage.  Gainesville is prone to hurri-canes and some areas ﬂ  ood.4, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE,   FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015 Advertising Supplement
Do I Really Need Insurance 
For MY Personal Property?
Yes. Unless you are ﬁ  nancially able to replace all 
your belongings, you should have insurance. Prop-
er insurance coverage will protect you against 
the loss of your valuables in most circumstances. 
Landlords are legally responsible for such losses 
only under very speciﬁ  c, limited circumstances 
that may be very difﬁ  cult to prove in court. 
If you are a resident-relative of your parents, 
your personal property may be insured through 
their homeowner’s policy. Have your parents con-
ﬁ  rm the coverage in writing with their insurance 
agent. 
If coverage is not available through your par-
ents’ homeowner’s policy, you may be able to 
purchase renter’s insurance. Even with insurance, 
there are certain precautions you should always 
take. Always lock your apartment securely even if 
you are only going next door. Never leave jewelry, 
cameras, cash, checkbooks, credit cards, electron-
ics, or other valuables in plain view.My Landlord Refuses to Make 
Repairs, What Can I Do?
You MAY be able either to withhold 
your rent or terminate your lease if the 
problem constitutes a material breach of the lease or the Act. You must follow the exact requirements of the Act. 
 You must give the landlord a written 
notice demanding the repairs be made in seven days. The notice must indi-
cate an intent to terminate the lease 
or withhold rent if the repairs are not 
made.  
This is a complicated process and 
the legal consequences are very seri-
ous. Do not attempt to terminate your 
lease or withhold rent without ﬁ  rst ob-
taining legal advice.Can I Deduct 
Repair Costs 
From My Rent?
No. 
The Act does not au-
thorize you to make re-pairs or to recover the cost of such repairs. In fact, most apartment 
leases prohibit repairs 
by tenants. When the landlord refuses to make 
repairs, the Act gives you 
a qualiﬁ  ed right to termi-nate the lease or with-hold rent. As previously 
indicated, you should 
consult an attorney be-fore attempting to ter-
minate the lease or with-
hold rent.
Information reprinted with permission by UF Student Legal ServicesFRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, 5 Advertising Supplement6, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE,   FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015 Advertising SupplementFRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, 7 Advertising Supplement
Both personal and property safety is important as 
you search for off-campus housing.  Before signing a lease, Off Campus Life recommends you check the 
crime stats of an area before moving there.  A free service 
called Crime Reports is available on the Gainesville Police 
Department’s website.  Crime Reports allows you to see all reported crime in a certain area.  Go to www.gainesvillepd.org, click “Crime Reports” on the right-hand side, and enter the address of interest to see local incident data.
Below are five tips to use when looking at safety during your apartment search:
1Go back to the com-
plex at night.  How 
do you feel?  Is the place well-lit and populated or dark and isolated?2 Does the property have working security 
gates and/or guards? 3Check for dead bolts on the outside door, 
locks for individual doors, alarm systems, etc. and ask lots of questions about the security.  Is there an extra charge for a security system? 4Has there been crime in the area recently?  
What actions have been done to prevent crime from happening? 5Don’t forget about purchasing some 
Renter’s Insurance to protect you and your stuff from the unexpect-ed.
Information reprinted with permission by UF’s Off Campus Life8, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE,   FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015 Advertising Supplement FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, 9 10, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE,   FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015 Advertising Supplement
Can I Be Evicted For Any Other Reason?
Yes! Your lease can be terminated if you violate any lease terms, rules and 
regulations, or the Act. If your lease is terminated and you do not vacate the 
apartment, the landlord may file for your eviction immediately.
T ermination begins with a 7-day notice.  Your options depend on whether 
the violations are classified as “curable” or “noncurable” .
If you receive either type of notice, you should contact an attorney. Neither 
termination of your lease, nor your eviction from the apartment ends your li-ability for rent!
Curable Violations:  
You will be given seven days to 
correct a curable violation. Curable 
violations include unauthorized 
pets, guests, parking, or the failure 
to keep the apartment clean and 
sanitary. If you repeat the violation 
within 12 months, you will not be 
given another chance.Noncurable Violations : 
The landlord may terminate your 
lease with a 7-day notice without 
giving you a chance to correct a 
noncurable violation. Noncurable 
violations include deliberate de-
struction or misuse of the landlord’s 
property or a continued, unreason-
able disturbance. What Exactly Is An Eviction?
An eviction is the formal end to your right to occupy 
the apartment. It does not end your duty to pay rent. 
An eviction starts with a Summons. You must file an 
Answer within 5 days. Contact an attorney immedi -
ately.
If the court rules against you, a judgment for posses -
sion of the apartment, unpaid rent, late fees, interest, 
court costs and attorney’s fees will be entered for the landlord. The sheriff will post a notice at the apartment 
that requires you to vacate within 24 hours. If you do 
not vacate within 24 hours, the sheriff will remove you and your personal property from the apartment.
What Are My Duties As A T enant?
 First, last and always, PAY RENT!
 Comply with all other lease terms.
 Comply with all rules and regulations.
 Comply with housing and health codes.
 Comply with all zoning restrictions.
 Keep the apartment clean and sanitary.
 Keep plumbing fixtures sanitary.
 Do not damage the apartment.
 Do not disturb your neighbors.
Information reprinted with permission of UF Student Legal ServicesFRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, 11 Advertising Supplement12, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE,   FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015 Advertising Supplement
Make sure you read and fully understand all aspects of the lease before signing.  A lease is a contract between 
you and your landlord that spells out speciﬁ  c details of your living arrangement.  Leases often involve poli-cies about pets, security and pet deposits, legal entry and other important information.  Typically, leases in 
Gainesville are for 12 months. If you will need your place for 10 months or less, talk with the management about wheth-er they can provide you a short-term lease.  There are two types of leases that are usually available, Joint Leases and Individual Leases.
Joint Leases
Individual Leases
Clauses to LOOK FOR in a lease:
Dates of occupancy
Amount of monthly rent and the date it is due each monthAmount of Application Fees, Security Deposit, Redecoration Fees and any other fees chargedResponsibility for payment of utilitiesResponsibility for general maintenance and 
repairs
Sublease: If you sign a 12 month lease, but 
think you may need the dwelling for a shorter period of time, make sure the lease allows you to sublease (rent your dwelling to another per-son who will assume the remainder of your lease) Pet policyAutomatic renewal clauseType of lease: Joint vs. IndividualClauses to AVOID in a lease:
At management’s discretion, the tenant may be asked to leave within three daysT enant waives all defects in the buildingLandlord shall not be responsible for injury to person, including tenant and guests, as a result of any causeT enant is responsible for all repairs to prem-ises 
Landlord may enter dwelling without notice
Landlord has a lien (a legal claim on the 
property of another as security for the pay-ment of a debt) on all personal property of tenant
A great University of Florida resource available to full-time students is 
Student Legal Services.  For any questions on your lease, visit the Stu-
dent Legal Services website www.studentlegalservices.uﬂ  .edu and set up 
an appointment with a lawyer to help review it BEFORE you sign it. All roommates are held responsible for the lease.  If one person breaks the lease, the other roommates are held responsible for paying the total rent.  This tends to be the lease more prominent when renting a house or single family dwelling.
Each person is held responsible for his or her own actions.  For instance, if one roommate breaks the lease, that person is still responsible for 
paying their own rent.  For most college students, individual leases are the best choice.  Each person in the lease is responsible for his or her own 
actions and not the actions of a roommate.  
Information reprinted with permission by UF’s Off Campus LifeFRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, 13 Advertising SupplementGetting Out14, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE,   FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015 Advertising Supplement
Getting Out
There is no time period established by the Act. You should not sign a lease that provides 
for automatic renewals of requires you to give the landlord a notice of nonrenewal. If you do 
sign such a lease, you must strictly comply with the notice requirements imposed by the lease.   There are some limits to the enforceability of these clauses. Contact an attorney if you have any questions.
If the lease does not specify otherwise, renewals are a matter of general contract law. The 
landlord cannot force you to renew prior to the end of your lease.  However, if you do not re-new by the landlord’s “deadline, ” the landlord may rent your apartment to someone else. What Steps Can I T ake T o Protect My Security Deposit?
When you take occupancy of the apartment, complete a thorough written inventory of the apart-
ment’s condition and have the landlord or an impartial witness sign the inventory. Make sure you keep a copy of the inventory. This helps protect you from the landlord claiming you caused pre-existing damage.
When you move out, clean the apartment completely and thoroughly. Some landlords provide a 
checklist outlining the cleaning they expect you to do. Keep all your receipts for cleaning supplies and professional carpet cleaning as evidence.
Before you leave, ask the landlord to inspect the apartment with you. Complete a move-out check-
list and make sure the landlord signs and dates it. Use an impartial witness if the landlord is not avail-able or refuses your request. Move-in and move-out photographs or videotape are strongly recom-mended in case there is a dispute.
Can I Break My Lease Because…
I am graduating?    No!
My roommate left?    No!
I cannot afford the rent?   No!
I need to work this summer?  No!
The neighborhood is unsafe?  No!
Under the Act, you can only terminate the lease if the 
landlord is materially violating your lease or the Act. You should obtain legal advice before attempting to terminate your lease. In many cases, the best thing you can do is find replacement tenants.
Information reprinted with permission by UF Student Legal ServicesDoes the Law Require 
Interest Payments on 
Security Deposits?
Landlords must hold security deposits in 
one of three methods. Two methods of holding 
the deposits require interest to be paid. The 
method which does not require interest pay-
ment is the one most landlords use. The land-lord is required to inform you in writing how your deposit is being held, where it is held, and whether you will receive interest.
Can I Sublet My Apartment?
Usually. the landlord cannot unreasonably withhold consent to an assignment or sublease. The 
landlord may require potential replacement tenants to submit an application including a credit 
check. The landlord may also charge a reasonable sublet fee even when you provide the replace-ment tenants. Normally you remain liable under your lease if the replacement tenants do not pay rent or damage the apartment. Some landlords will release you from the obligations of your lease. If you are being released, get it in writing.
How Soon Must I Renew My Lease?Budgets
BudgetsYou can’t find the right place to live until you know how much you 
are able to spend.  Here are some budget questions you should think about while touring a property:
Your living environment plays a major factor in your overall happiness level.  Know what you want to get out of your living space and 
choose your location and roommate(s) accordingly.  Gainesville is home now so let Off Campus Life help you get the most out of your off-campus experience.
Information reprinted with permission by UF’s Off Campus Life
1What is the monthly rent?
2What’s included in that rent?  Utilities, 
gas, water, cable, Internet?
3What’s not included in rent?  What is the 
average monthly cost for gas, electric, 
water, garbage disposal?  If management doesn’t know, contact GRU at www.gru.com and they can give you average costs 
of utilities for the previous year.
4Want to have a pet?  Factor in the de -
posit and monthly cost for food, medical 
and grooming care.
5Don’t forget the insurance.  Before you 
sign your lease, call your insurance com -
pany and see how much it will cost monthly to insure your apartment or house.
6Are you going to need fuel for your vehi -
cle or are you going to use the bus?  Fac -
tor transportation/car maintenance costs into your budget.
7How much will you spend monthly on groceries or on a meal plan?
8Have some fun!  Don’t spend so much on rent that you don’t have money for fun stuff.
9What do you spend on clothing, shoes and accessories? 
10How much money can you save every month?  It’s really good to save some money every month to cover unexpect -
ed emergency expenses.  Even $20 a month saved is good.  Every little bit counts.FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, 15 Advertising Supplement16, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE,   FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015 Advertising SupplementBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from 
campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    3-24-15-15-1
Housing for Homeless Veterans!
Volunteers of America offers housing for 
homeless veterans or those at risk of becom-ing homeless in a warm and supportive envi-ronment. If you or anyone you know may ben-efit from our program, please contact Woody at 352-642-8313 for more information. 
Two bedrooms with all utilities included!    
3-17-15-7-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-31-14-66-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs$685 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-27-15-30-22BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  
Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. 
Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294   
3-13-15-12-2
1 BR / 1 BR - $650/month incl. utilities
Oaks Condos - behind mall / Starbucks6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable 1st floor unit. Lots of parking.Easy walk to mall, dining, RTS bus stop.On-site gym, pool, laundry facility.Contact (352) 219-5351 for info.    3-17-12-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-
3901    3-26-15-15-2
5 BEDROOM,3 BATH HOME.
WALK TO CLASS!
ASKING $2,850 TOTAL.
CALL JOHN @ 561.866.8234
FOR FURTHER DETAILS.
3-13-15-5-2
May or August: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 
2 BR vintage apartments near UF & down -
town, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $465 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com    3-17-15-5-2
Available August: Several Cute & Clean 2, 3, & 4 BR vintage homes near UF. Wood floors, C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $890-$1760/mo. Call/text Anita 352-575-4395 Details: www.CozyGator.com    3-17-15-5-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1760/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    3-17-15-5-2
CUSTOM 2BDRM 1BA AVAIL NOW Within 1 1/2 mi UF&Shands Tiled liv rm & kit area Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans Upgraded Bath Like new stainless kit appl W/D Cent H/A Internet/cable avail Owner pays water pest cntrl lawn main security lights Near bus rte Sorry no pets $685/mo. Call 727-423-9463     3-13-15-2-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
UNIVERSITY HOUSE 2BR/2BA APT(for re-let) 5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent in-cludes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $325/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-27-15-20-3
$455/mo. 1BR/1BA currently available (ASAP). Great location Center Point Apts. 1220 NW 12th St. Lease ends on July 31st. Text or call 904-662-9065    3-13-15-4-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SCHOLAR’S HAVEN.Grad, post-doc, prof. Contemp. furn. house in woods 1 mi. north of UF. W/D, piano, wifi, prkg. $425+util.262-3957. or mardavis03@yahoo.com    3-13-15-5-4
roommate wanted, private br/ba, screened porch, end unit (Rockwood Villas) $400/m plus util, free internet, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus, w/d, students only 904.874.5774             3-31-15-17-4
ROOMMATE NEEDED Close to campus in 2BR/2.5BA duplex. Near bus stop. $400/mo + utils & deposit. Available now. Share with male student. Call 904-608-7609    3-18-15-5-4
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 20143630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $130092 Toyota Camry $175091 Chevy Blazer $699352-338-1999    4-22-71-12Sell your running or not running carUp to $2500 or more
Cash buyers                352-771-6191
3-31-15-14-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
3-20-14-73-13 
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
 FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015 §  ALLIGATOR, 11
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with
a love for children to staff its
summer camp program.
Positions in the camp are available in our
elementary school age day camps and
some half-day specialty camp programs.
Summer Dates are June 8-July 24 and
day camp employees
must be available for all dates.
For a complete listing of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interested applicants should submit a
resume to Buffy McTureous via e-mail at
bmctuerous@oakhall.org by March 13th.
Interview information regarding
group interview on March 14th
will be sent out upon receipt.
3-13-15-10-14
Psychological assistant psychometrician
wanted for private practice.
Will require
1-2 months unpaid training to qualify
for 36-40 hour position at 10.50 per hour
minimum 1 year commitment. perfect for
someone wanting experience b4 grad 
school. Send vita to info@cpancf.com
3-16-15-7-14ACCOUNTING ASSISTANTS
We are looking for accounting graduates or 4th or 5th year accounting students who have or are taking tax/audit. Earn while you learn while working with CPA learning mate-rials. Assist with customer support, research, critical reading, technical advising for video learning, special projects, editing and more.
Our employees have a great success rate 
of passing the CPA on the first try. Flexible schedules. Please apply online at www.gleim.com/employment or contact HR @352-375-0772 ext 122.     3-20-15-11-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors
Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Clean/Maint., Drivers. Apply today at 
suncountrysports.com/jobs.html!
3-17-15-7-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUS
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – August. Approx. 20 hrs 
a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible 
hours and evenings plus free meals! Must 
enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is 
a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com
3-13-5-14looking for a reliable office/home/apartment 
cleaner with own transportation and valid license/insurance w/ a good background record and drugfree... background checks and drug tests will be ran.... paying $8/hr if interested please call 352-214-0868    3-13-15-5-14
PT Job with UIFT Web Service. Quick learnerWeb Design experience (HTML, CSS)15-20 hrs/week, $15/hr.Assisting Web Developers migrate content into new system.email resume to Kim Standifer, standik@ufl.edu   3-18-7-14
1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing/fit gals/guys for part time driver position.  Strong student or recent graduate pre-ferred. +21 age req'd for insurance. $10 - $15/hr. Email cover letter and resume to gainesvillecentral@1800gotjunk.com    3-17-15-5-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary experience ideal      3-31-15-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new career? 
Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving 
School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry 
Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 
to discuss pay and benefits. Www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE    3-13-1-14Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 
50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. 
EOE    3-13-1-14
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-14-71-15
12, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
Zhang's Car Repair 352-665-0119
Brakes/Drivetrain /Power steering &suspension /Engine/electrical/Fuel Excellent experience & lower pricewww.zhangscar.com               3-13-15-2-15
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW!Learn to drive for CON-WAY TRUCKLOADNO Experience Needed. Local CDL TrainingApply Today! 1-800-709-7364    3-13-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    3-13-1-15
WELDING CAREERS - Hands on training for career opportunities in aviation, automo-tive, manufacturing and more. Financial aid for qualified students. Job placement assis-tance. CALL AIM 877-206-4006    3-13-1-15
FLIGHT Attendant CAREERS start here – 
Learn how to land a job in the friendly skies 
and prepare for training by the airlines. Five 
information packed days in Orlando. Call 
AIM 888-242-3630.    3-13-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Shop Local. Shop Small
Small Business Craft Show
March 14, 2015; 10 am to 3 pm
Cymply Fresh/Cymple Room5408 NW 8th Avenue        3-13-13-20
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!"Guinea Keets and chicks for sale! Keets starting at $3.70, as low as $1.70, chicks as low as $1.10. 717-340-1034 or www.ChickensDirect.NET"    3-13-10-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: JEWELRY
Oaks Mall - Belk Parking area. Found on 
Wednesday afternoon. Call to ID 352-450-0466 
3-17-3-25
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008
Attention Viagra Users!
VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.
40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. 
No Prescription Needed!
Discreet Shipping.
Call Now 1-800-224-0305     3-13-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
New SEC commissioner named
Greg Sankey was named the eighth commissioner of the Southeastern 
Conference on Thursday, succeeding Mike Slive. The changed will go into effect after Slive retires on July 31.Gatornationals
See page 14 for our preview page on the 2015 Gatornationals, which will be held this weekend.Dalton Guthrie and the UF baseball team begin SEC play tonight against Tennessee. Read the 
story on page 16.GRAHAM HALL 
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — The 
Gators aren’t ready to go home just yet.
No. 8 seed Florida kept its 
postseason hopes afloat Thursday afternoon by beating ninth-seed-ed Alabama 69-61 in the second round of the Southeastern Confer-ence Tournament at the Bridges-tone Arena in Nashville.
In what has been arguably the 
most difficult season of coach Bil-ly Donovan’s career, the Gators opened the game lacking the de-fensive intensity that has kept the season salvageable  when the of-fense has routinely struggled.
With sharp-shooting junior Mi-
chael Frazier still hobbled by the sprained ankle he suffered against 
Kentucky on Feb. 7, the Gators 
needed someone else to step up 
and extend the season.
That someone was redshirt ju-
nior Dorian Finney-Smith.
Finney-Smith scored 23 points 
and grabbed 11 rebounds for the Gators (16-16) while using a com-bination of interior post moves and a barrage of three-pointers to send Alabama (18-14) back home to Tuscaloosa.“If we’re open, I just want to 
shoot the ball with confidence,” Finney-Smith said. “I hope that the players on my team do the 
same. We move the ball, you get a 
good shot, just shoot it with con-
fidence.”Finney-Smith continued the 
strong play he’s displayed since 
being suspended Feb. 18 for a vio-
lation of team rules. 
The double-double perfor-
mance was his second in four 
games since returning to Florida’s 
lineup in the Feb. 28 win over Ten-
nessee.
The Portsmouth, Virginia, na-
tive is averaging 16.8 points and 
eight rebounds a game while 
shooting 52.4 percent from the 
field since returning from his sus-pension. 
“I just wanted to come out, 
since the suspension, pick up the 
energy,” Finney-Smith said. “I 
got the players on the team, they did a good job of supporting me through tough times, and that’s 
why I just want to come out and 
play with that energy for these 
guys, play for these guys.”
For a while, it appeared the 
Gators would be the ones leaving disappointed.
The Crimson Tide quickly built 
AP Photo
Florida forward Dorian Finney-Smith (10) shoots over Alabama guard Justin Coleman (5) during the Gators’ 69-61 win against the Crimson Tide in the second round of the SEC Tournament.
Florida tops ‘Bama in SEC Tournament to keep season alive
Finney-Smith led scoring with 23 points
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
For Gator gymnastics fans, tonight 
marks the end of an era.
As No. 2 Florida (6-3, 5-2 Southeast-
ern Conference) takes on Texas Woman’s University (5-10) in 
the O’Connell Center at 6:45 p.m., the four-person senior class that brought back-to-back national titles to Gainesville will com-
pete in front of its home fans for the final time.
And while the entire class is deserv-
ing of praise, no one will leave a bigger void than Kytra Hunter.“She’s irreplaceable,” coach Rhonda 
Faehn said. “She’s incredible, she’s just been like a pillar of strength. 
“Every single season she hasn’t wa-
vered, she has just been someone who 
can be counted on and relied on and has 
just been very stable and those athletes are extremely hard to come by.”
Hunter said she is treating tonight 
the same as she would any other meet to avoid distractions — an attitude that epitomizes her approach throughout her career. But after the meet, she said she would let her emotions out.
She is using the same mindset when 
it comes to reflecting on her accomplish-ments at Florida.
“Once I’m done with (the) season Senior leaving it all on the 
floor in final home meetGYMNASTICS
 GRANT HAS COACHED AT ALABAMA 
FOR THE PAST SIX SEASONS.
RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — There is unbridled 
passion Billy Donovan speaks with when he 
goes on the defensive for someone near and dear to him. 
His tone is raised, his eyes are wide and he 
wants you to feel how adamant he is. 
But when Donovan spoke this way on 
Thursday following No. 8 seed Florida’s 69-61 win against ninth-seeded Alabama, he wasn’t talking about one of his players.
He was talking about the man whose team 
he’s just defeated for the 11th straight time — Alabama coach Anthony Grant.
“Let’s put it this way, Alabama better hope 
he comes back, that’s what I would say,” Dono-van said.
To say Grant is on the hot seat in Tuscaloosa 
is an understatement. His Crimson Tide are 18-14 and went 8-10 during Southeastern Confer-
ence regular season play. It’s his sixth season 
at the helm, and Alabama has only been to the 
NCAA tournament once under his watch, los-ing to Creighton as a No. 9 seed in the opening 
round of the 2012 big dance.
Alabama ranks No. 78 
in team RPI — two spots behind Florida — and is 0-9 against RPI top-50 teams and 
5-5 against teams ranked 51-100. 
Donovan looks beyond 
the wins and losses, though, 
in his evaluation of Grant.
“I would tell you, as a parent, there’s not a 
coach in the country I would want my son to play for than Anthony Grant,” Donovan said. “And you know what? Even if they did not have a winning season or he didn’t have a suc-cessful four years there, him becoming a man, as a father, would be a lot more important than if he won a lot of games, he cut down some Donovan expresses support for 
Alabama coach Anthony Grant
SEE SIDEBAR, PAGE 15SEE GYMNASTICS, PAGE 15Hunter
Donovan
“We move the ball, you 
get a good shot, just shoot it 
with confidence.”
Dorian Finney-Smith
UF basketball playerJORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Matt Hagan has enjoyed success in his 
relatively young drag racing career.
In his seventh full season as a profes-
sional Funny Car racer, the 32-year-old 
Hagan is the reigning National Hot Rod Association champion, winning the 2014 Funny Car Drag Racing Series.
He has 16 career wins.In the early 2015 season, Hagan already 
has two victories under his belt in as many events.
But even with all of the wins, all the 
championships and all the accolades, Hagan remains humble.
“I can remember when I couldn’t give 
an autograph away,” Hagan said. “Now 
I’m grateful that someone wants my auto-
graph. I don’t know. I guess I’ve had such a huge amount of success in such a short amount of time, maybe I haven’t forgot where it comes from.”
Now, Hagan has his next opportunity 
to compete at the 2015 Gatornationals this weekend in Gainesville.
Thousands of drag racing lovers will fill 
the stands at Auto Plus Raceway, provid-
ing a wild environment for fans and racers 
alike.
“People go crazy for Gainesville,” 
Hagan said. “It’s a packed house. We’ll be racing in front of thousands of fans next 
weekend coming up. It is really cool to 
do your burnout (and) look around in the stands. It’s slammed. For me, it gets my blood pumping.”
Gatornationals is the third meet of the 
season for Top Fuel, Funny Car and Pro Stock racers, each of which begins qualify-ing rounds today.
It is also the first event of the Pro Stock 
motorcycle season, which started action on Thursday, and the first meet on the East Coast of the United States — the first two NHRA events of the year were held in 
California and Arizona.
For Hagan, a native of Christiansburg, 
Virginia, competing in the Gatornationals 
brings back some memories — Gainesville is where he started his pro racing career.
And while Hagan has found early 
success this season, a win in Gainesville would be a pivotal moment in his career.
“I want to win it, man,” he said. “I want 
to win them all. I’m kind of greedy when I say that. It’s true. If you go out there and you don’t have that desire and drive to win, you shouldn’t be sitting in the seat anyway.”
Like Hagan, Top Fuel drag racer Tony 
Schumacher has started the season on a high note and looks to continue that suc-cess in Gainesville this weekend.
Schumacher won his first meet of the 
season at the CARQUEST Auto Parts Na-tionals in Phoenix by driving the quarter-mile track in 3.720 seconds — the ninth-fastest time in Top Fuel history. 
It was the 78th win in his career.
He has four career wins at the Auto 
Plus Raceway in Gainesville, a track many 
dub one of the fastest in the country.
But Schumacher doesn’t invest too 
much time in those wins.
“It’s great history,” Schumacher said. 
“Honestly, I have no better chance of win-ning Gainesville this weekend than I do of winning Atlanta, which I’ve never won 
before.”                    
To the racers competing in Gainesville 
this weekend and in the remaining 15 
events of the season, this is a lifestyle.
The wins and losses come and go.But the culture remains constant.“It’s been really humbling to me,” 
Hagan said. 
“I feel like if we can get these fans in-
volved ... Drag racing, NHRA drag racing, is truly a phenomenal sport. It sells itself once you get onto the racetrack. But we’ve got to get these kids there, get these fami-
lies there, and the rest of it will take care 
of itself.”14, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Funny Car driver Matt Hagan races down the quarter-mile track at the CARQUEST 
Auto Parts Nationals in Phoenix. Hagan has won both races of the 2015 season heading into this weekend’s Gatornationals.
GATOR NATIONALSRacers ready to burn rubber at 2015 Gatornationals
 McMILLEN WAS AN ENGI -
NEER BEFORE HE STARTED RACING IN 2007.
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
Despite his age, 60-year-old 
Terry McMillen hasn’t been 
around the National Hot Rod As-
sociation circuit for long.
But that doesn’t mean his de-
sire to win is any less than his 
competitors.
McMillen is racing in the Top 
Fuel series for the seventh time in his nine-year career at the Amalie 
Motor Oil NHRA Gatornation-
als this weekend, and he has two goals.
The first is to qualify, which he 
has failed to do in recent years. 
Once that is taken care of, it’s 
a go-for-broke mentality with nothing to lose and only a trophy to gain.
“There would be nothing bet-
ter than to be able to hand them the Wally (trophy) at the end of the night,” McMillen said. “That’s what we’re here for.”
McMillen walked away from a 
career as an electrical engineer to go racing, but taking the risk to pursue his passion paid off. Now, his career consists of living out his dream each weekend.
“It’s a release,” he said. “It’s 
everything in the world to me. It’s not a job anymore — it’s what I love to do.”
Although McMillen has a 
background in engineering, he doesn’t get to be involved with 
the mechanical aspects of racing 
as much as he would like. In-stead, he spends his time work-ing with sponsors and business partners while leaving the me-chanics to his team.
McMillen puts all his faith in 
the team each weekend. One minor slip up with the en-
gine tuning could lead to a mas-sive explosion, with the best case scenario being a wasted weekend 
and the worst jeopardizing Mc-
Millen’s life.
“My guys are everything to 
me,” McMillen said. “Without 
them I’d be nothing, and without 
a driver they’d be nothing.”
Even though so much is de-
termined by the power of the car, McMillen added that he does 
have a significant influence on 
the outcomes of each race.
As a driver with experience 
racing underfunded cars with 
less power than his competitors, 
he learned to make up the differ-ence in races with his own reac-tion-time ability.
“I could say that I could hang 
with the best of anybody,” Mc-Millen said. “I’ve never maybe had the fastest car, so I always had to make sure I was really 
good on the reaction time.”
To be able to take home a tro-
phy this weekend, his reaction 
time and his car will need to be top notch to defeat the legion of 
quality opponents. But if he can, 
it would mean the world to him to do it at Gatornationals. 
From his perspective, there 
isn’t a more prestigious weekend to win.
“To me, it’s the biggest,” he 
said.Drag racer enjoying life, looking for first career win this weekend
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Top Fuel series drag racer Terry McMillen gets into his dragster during a demonstration on Wednes-
day at Piesano’s Pizza, located at 1250 W. University Ave.
“It’s not a job anymore - 
it’s what I love to do.”
Terry McMillen
Top Fuel series racernets, but absolutely didn’t learn anything 
about growing up and maturing.”
Grant and Donovan go way back to 
the start of Donovan’s coaching career at Marshall when Grant was so athletic and competitive as a young assistant that he had to play on separate teams from fel-low assistant John Pelphrey during staff pick up games. When things got thin numbers wise for the 1994 Thunder-ing Herd, Grant — then 28 years old — would hop in on the scout team to give a look. 
Grant stayed with Donovan through 
the transition to Florida through all the ups-and-downs Donovan went through to build the program before leaving to be-come head coach at VCU in 2006.
The relationship between the two still 
exists today as they shared a moment outside the locker room after Florida’s victory over Alabama. They’re friends, no matter who coaches where, you can hear it in Billy Donovan’s voice.
“I do know that there’s a lot of sup-
port internally in their athletic depart-ment for Anthony,” Donovan said. “I think that those people understand the man that they have and I think that — listen, we all want to win and I get that point. But I think one of the things that sometimes bothers me in coaching more than anything else is there’s never, ever anything that’s ever talked about of what coaches do in terms of developing these guys into young men.”FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Hunter recorded six perfect 10s during her junior season at UF
then I’ll be able to relax and think 
about all of my journey, … just ev-
ery success that I’ve had,” Hunter 
said.
With all of her successes, it may 
take her awhile.
As a freshman, Hunter was the 
Honda Award winner as the best 
collegiate gymnast, was crowned 
the 2012 NCAA vault champion and became the first Gator to win 
the NCAA all-around title. 
She was also only the fifth fresh-
man to win multiple event titles in history and took home five NCAA 
All-America honors.
She came back a year later and 
was awarded four NCAA All-America honors while continuing her torrid pace with 32 routines of 
9.9 or higher. 
She also led all competitors with 
a 9.975 on floor in the Super Six competition, helping lead Florida to 
its first ever national championship.
After two years with so much 
success, Hunter hadn’t left herself much room for improvement. But somehow she did improve in her 
junior season — the year of perfec-
tion.
Hunter led the nation by scor-ing six perfect 10s during the 2014 season — two on vault and four on 
floor. She also added two NCAA 
All-America honors en route to Florida’s second straight national 
title.
And now, as a senior, she has 
defied the trend of aging gymnasts dropping off late in their careers by 
continuing to be Florida’s best and most reliable performer week after 
week.
She was named the SEC Gym-
nast of the Week on Tuesday after a 39.75 all-around performance last 
week against Oklahoma. It is the eighth such honor of her career and 
the third of her senior season.
After giving so much to the pro-
gram, Hunter said it will be strange to not be a part of meetings and 
practices daily, but to instead be one of the former Gators on the walls.
“It is going to be weird,” she 
said. “Looking at the girls on the wall now, I’m going to be in their 
shoes. I can’t imagine what they’re 
feeling.”
But she doesn’t have time to 
think about it yet — she has a few more accomplishments ahead to add to that long resume.GYMNASTICS , from page 13
Aaron Albright / Alligator
UF gymnastics coach Rhonda Faehn hugs senior Kytra Hunter following Hunter’s balance beam routine 
during Florida’s win against Missouri on Feb. 13 in the O’Connell Center.
SIDEBAR , from page 13They worked together beforeFlorida plays Kentucky today
an early 21-13 lead behind the strong play of 
senior Rodney Cooper, who finished with 13 points before fouling out with 3:11 remain-
ing in the game.
But Florida was able to use a combination 
of stifling defense and intelligent ball move-
ment to create space and knock down criti-
cal three-pointers in a contest that was back 
and forth until the closing minutes.
“I thought that we moved the ball pretty 
well,” Donovan said. “I felt like that offen-sively, we had been getting better. I thought 
we had some really good shots from the 
three-point line that didn’t go down.
“But sometimes it goes in and it doesn’t 
go in. I just try to look at the quality of shots 
we’re getting. I thought we got pretty decent 
shots.”
Florida got 11 points from Eli Carter 
while freshman Devin Robinson added 10 points coming off the bench. 
Alabama’s starting lineup was its only 
unit that contributed to the scoreboard as the Crimson Tide was unable to get any points from the bench. 
Along with pulling the Gators to .500 at 
16-16, the win extends Florida’s chance of making a postseason tournament — wheth-er it’s the NCAA Tournament or the Na-tional Invitation Tournament — for the 18th straight season.
UF would need to run the table in the SEC 
Tournament to clinch a berth in the NCAA Tournament, and no team with a sub-.500 record has ever been invited to the NIT.
Yet the road only gets tougher from here 
for UF, as the Gators take on the undefeated No. 1 Kentucky Wildcats at 1 p.m. today for the second time in less than a week. 
“It’s all or nothing, you gotta win or go 
home,” Robinson said. “We just gotta keep winning.”HOOPS , from page 13SOFTBALL
PATRICK PINAK
Alligator Writer @Pinakk12
Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium will 
likely turn into a zoo when two undefeat-
ed animals take the field tonight in UF’s Southeastern Conference opener.
The No. 1 Gators (27-0) and No. 3 LSU 
Tigers (25-0, 3-0 SEC) will clash in the first contest of what should be a wild three-game series that starts tonight at 6. 
“It’s gonna be competitive,” senior Lau-
ren Haeger said. “It’s gonna be loud. It’s 
gonna be what SEC softball is really all 
about.”
While the series will mark the beginning 
of conference play for the Gators, it might 
also mark the best matchup of the season.
Florida and LSU are each off to the best start to a season in their respective histo-ries. Both teams are also eerily similar in how they’ve won - they score at will and don’t allow opponents to cross home plate.
UF’s .76 ERA leads the nation among 
teams with at least 100 
innings pitched, while 
LSU’s .86 ERA ranks sec-
ond.
Florida pitchers Lau-
ren Haeger and Aleshia Ocasio both rank in the top 10 in the nation for ERA with .59 and .69, re-spectively. 
LSU pitcher Allie Walljasper’s .43 ERA 
slots in at fourth best in the nation.
“Every stat is just about the same, and 
so that’s what I think is gonna make this series so exciting and such a hostile envi-ronment,” Haeger said.
As if this matchup needed any more 
hype, LSU head coach Beth Torina will return to Gainesville again, where she pitched for the Gators – as Beth Dieter – 
from 1997-2000 and won 60 games during 
her career.
UF coach Tim Walton thinks it will 
come down to the hurlers in the circle.
“I really have a hard time not think-
ing there’s gonna be pitching duels when you’ve got the ERAs as low as they are,” Walton said. “Whoever can get to three runs first has got a good chance to win.”
While the pitching stats between the 
two are almost identical, LSU has the slight edge at the plate this season.
This year, LSU’s 7.96 runs per game is tied for 11th best in the nation, while Flori-da is 13th with 7.85.
LSU’s lineup also features one of the 
best power hitters in the nation in Sahvan-na Jaquish. Her 11 home runs are tied for third best in the country, and she leads the 
nation with 45 RBIs.
Haeger is Florida’s version of Jaquish. 
The Peoria, Arizona, native’s nine home 
runs and 34 RBI are tied for sixth best and tied for eighth best in the nation, respec-tively.
Walton said he isn’t changing up any-
thing for this series.
“When you have two undefeated teams, 
you don’t know how your team is gonna respond to losing,” he said. “So the best way to find that out is just don’t lose. Go out and win.”Battle of perfection: Undefeated UF, LSU begin series tonight
Haeger
16, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Dalton Guthrie runs toward first base during Florida baseball’s 8-7 
win against Fairfield on Tuesday at McKethan Stadium. Guthrie and the No. 2 Gators start Southeastern Conference play tonight when they begin a three-game series against Tennessee.
UF ATHLETICS
STAFF REPORT
Early on this season, UF baseball coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan has put a heavy load on his freshman class.
And with No. 2 Florida (16-2) opening up Southeast-
ern Conference play tonight with a series against Ten-
nessee (7-6) at McKethan Stadium, the eighth-year coach 
will be relying on his first-year players just the same.
“The SEC is obviously a very important part of the 
season, but it’s not like I’m going to go into the locker 
room and say ‘these games are so much more important, you gotta change how you play,’” O’Sullivan said. “Just 
do what you do and stay within yourself and just have 
good, quality at-bats and stay calm.”
In the first 18 games this season, seven freshmen have 
earned a combined 63 starts in Florida’s batting lineup.
They’ve been tested — with three starting all of Flor-
ida’s game in its series against then-No. 8 Miami and 
then-No. 10 UCF and five cracking the starting lineup at least once in the five games.
They have shown their value to the team, recording 
82 of the team’s 186 hits and 41 of 116 RBIs.
And they are ready for conference play to begin.“I’m excited,” freshman leadoff hitter Dalton Guthrie 
said. “I’ve heard it gets pretty intense, nothing like I’ve been exposed to in high school.”
—JORDAN MCPHERSON
Track and Field: After two weeks of preparation, 
the No. 1/2 Florida men’s and women’s track and field 
teams are set to compete in the two-day NCAA Indoor 
Championships.
Coach Mike Holloway’s squads head into Fayette-
ville, Arkansas, with momentum gained from the SEC 
Indoor Championships, where the Gator men came out as conference champions and the women finished runner-up.  
While the national meet is of great importance to the 
state of any college program, Holloway’s preparation for his team was just business as usual.
“It’s just a track meet. Again, we don’t put this big 
moniker on it,” Holloway said. “It’s not about the label on the event. … Just go out there and compete and do 
your job.”
— KYLE BRUTMAN
Lacrosse: Coming off of a one-goal overtime loss to 
No. 5 Syracuse at home on Tuesday night, No. 6 Florida 
(6-2) travels to No. 1 Maryland (6-0), the reigning nation-al champions, for a noon game on Saturday.
The Gators are looking to improve on the defensive side of the ball based on how they performed against Syracuse, especially one-on-one defense, according to Florida coach Amanda O’Leary. Maryland junior mid-fielder Taylor Cummings will be the focus of the Gators’ defense. She has scored 21 goals this year, and Florida 
will try to shut her down as they did Syracuse’s All-
American Kayla Treanor on Tuesday. 
— ALEX MAMINAKIS
Men’s Golf: After four top-five performances, the 
Gators head to Tallahassee trying to knock off some of 
the nation’s best squads.
The UF men’s golf team continues its spring schedule 
today when it starts the three-day Seminole Intercolle-
giate at the SouthWood Golf Course.
This is the first time in program history that the 
Gators will be a part of the field in the Seminoles’ annual 
home tournament.
Seniors J.D. Tomlinson and Thomas Stewart as well 
as junior A.J. Crouch, sophomore Ryan Orr and fresh-man Alejandro Tosti fill out the lineup this week for the Gators.
— RYAN SUMMERS
Men’s Tennis: No. 18 Florida continues its SEC sea-
son today at the Ring Tennis Complex at 5 p.m. against 
Mississippi State.
Last season, the Bulldogs and the Gators went into 
tie-break in all three of its doubles with Florida losing the doubles point.
The Gators went on to sweep the Bulldogs in singles 
play 4-1.
Returning players Maxx Lipman and Elliot Orkin 
brought in a point each in last year’s matchup.
The Gators are coming off a tough 4-1 loss to No. 10 
Ohio State.
Florida’s true freshman Chase Perez-Blanco brought 
in the lone point for the Gators and is the only Florida player with an undefeated record in SEC singles dual matches.
— CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Women’s Tennis : No. 2 Florida (11-1, 3-0 Southeast-
ern Conference) continues its three-match road swing 
today when it faces Arkansas (11-6, 1-2) at 5 p.m. at the Billingsley Tennis Center.
UF is coming off a week-long break after its match 
against Texas A&M on Sunday was postponed due to inclement weather. 
UF holds a 25-1 all-time record against Arkansas. 
— ENEISY RODRIGUEZRoundup: Florida baseball opens SEC play against Tennessee