We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 28 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015
Junior supplying necessary goals 
for UF soccer team
Brooke Sharp has ﬁ  ve goals in the last six 
matches, pg. 17
Farrior Hall construction will add lecture hall, 
study spaces
The building will double in size by May 2016, pg. 5
A word from your Student Body President
Get to know Joselin Padron-Rasines, pg. 7Check out the Avenue
Rocky Horror Picture Show, Ying Yang Twins 
and some mediocre advice, pgs. 9-13
STAFF REPORT
After a battle of chomps and cheers, Im-
pact Party took the majority of seats up for 
grabs in the Student Government elections 
Wednesday night.
Despite Access Party’s success in the 
Spring elections, it was newly founded Im-
pact that took 34 seats compared to Access Party’s 16 seats.
A total of 10,229 students voted, with 
6,427 ballots cast the first day of elections and 3,802 ballots cast Wednesday. Last Fall saw a record-low turnout, with only 6,733 ballots cast over the course of two days.
Wednesday was the culmination of a 
contentious election season, vastly different from last Fall when the unopposed Swamp Party took 49 of the 50 Senate seats, and 
Spring 2014’s election when Swamp took all 50 seats with 7,919 ballots cast. Swamp was not present in this election.
Impact took all but one district, sweeping 
24 of 37 off-campus residential seats. Access 
took all of District D, the homes in ZIP code 32608, holding on to 13 seats.
Impact took 10 of the 13 on-campus resi-
dential seats while Access clung to Hume, Murphree and Tolbert Hall seats.
Both parties were reprimanded for com-
plaints, with each party submitting three complaints against the other during a meet-ing Monday night at the UF Levin College of Law. Access was reprimanded for a pub-lished BuzzFeed article, which explained 
campaign questions, because it was not reg-
istered as campaign material, according to Election Commissions Chair Joshua Gehres. Impact was reprimanded for campaigning 
before Sept. 1, the official beginning of elec-tions.
Five election complaints were received 
Wednesday. These will be heard Friday at 8 a.m. in the law school by Gehres and the rest IMPACT DOMINATES ELECTIONSCAMPUS
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
In the beginning, there was only 
lemon-lime.
But 50 years and several major 
athlete endorsements later, Gato-
rade has more than 30 ﬂ  avors and 
millions of fans.
Dr. J. Robert Cade created a UF 
legacy when he invented Gatorade 
in 1965, said Dr. Jim Free, who was a member of the Gatorade invention team.
UF’s celebration of Gatorade’s 
invention kicks off today with a meeting of the inventors of Gato-rade, wrote Martin Salamone, the UF assistant athletic director of rev-
enue generation and fan retention, 
in an email. There will be a gala this evening.
Free will be at the events. He 
said it was fun to work with Cade, who died in 2007.
“It was a blast,” the 81-year-old 
said. “He was a fun guy to work with. He was low key. He did not 
put anyone down. He was very sup-
portive of all the projects that were brought to him.”
In the 1960s, UF football coaches 
approached Cade, saying there was a problem with players being dehy-drated, passing out and not peeing during practice, said Dr. Mark Se-gal, who works in the UF College of 
Medicine. Cade’s solution was a for-
mula of water, sodium, potassium and glucose that ultimately became Gatorade.
That drink now helps student 
-athletes like Taylore Fuller, a UF sociology senior and UF softball player.
“Without having those Gatorade 
bottles and the Gatorade in our jugs 50 years 
later, UF celebrates 
Gatorade
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Jacquelyn Hoza, an Access Party senator, 
wipes a tear after losing District C. Behind her, Rick Garcia, an unsuccessful Access Dis-trict B candidate, comforts another member.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Impact Party candidates and supporters celebrate after winning 34 out of 50 Student Senate seats at the Fall 2015 Student Government elections on Wednesday. A total of 10,229 votes were cast over the two-day voting period.
SEE GATORADE,  PAGE 4New party takes 34 out of 50 seats 
SEE SG, PAGE 8“I’m not sure we can make it 
in that kind of heat with just 
water.”
T aylore Fuller
UF softball playerSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Banned Books Week Read-Out
The George A. Smathers 
Libraries will celebrate liberat-
ing literature today from noon 
to 2 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas. Students, faculty and staff are invited to read a 
short passage from a banned 
or challenged book. Stop by to read or listen to others read and enjoy pizza and soda.
GatorNights
GatorNights will have a Disney-villains-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. 
at the Reitz Union. 
The event will feature Stuff-a-Dalmatian, a hypnotist and a costume contest with Disney prizes. GatorNights will also 
be hosting showings of the 
movie “Inside Out”  at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. 
The night will end with 
breakfast during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must 
be current students to partici-
pate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Gainesville Interfaith Alliance
Gainesville Interfaith Alliance for Immigrant Justice will screen the award-winning 
documentary “The Hand That 
Feeds” at the Millhopper Branch Library on Monday at 6:30 p.m. 
The 2014 film follows undoc-
umented-immigrant restaurant workers in their struggle for a living wage. The film will be followed by 
a discussion on immigration 
and living-wage issues led by Jeremiah Tattersall and Diana Moreno. Don Smith will mod-
erate the open-audience dis-
cussion. The event is open to the public without charge.
5K Walk to Eliminate Health 
DisparitiesInterested in raising awareness about health disparities while exercising and having fun? UF’s 
Health Disparities Research 
and Intervention Program (Dr. Carolyn M. Tucker, di-rector) and Suwannee River Area Health Education Center 
(Sarah Catalanotto, execu-tive director) are sponsoring a 
5K walk titled “2015 Walk to 
Eliminate Health Disparities: 
Walking to Promote a Healthy Weight” on  Oct. 10. There will be free prizes and healthy snacks. All are 
welcome to register in ad-
vance, free of charge, at tx.ag/5KWalk.
Talking Gators Meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building Room 1031, located 
at 970 Natural Area Drive. 
Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For details about Talking 
Gators, go to talkinggators.
toastmastersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page.  
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club invites you and your friends out to our biweekly les-sons and dances every Monday 
and Friday. 
We have free lessons for be-ginners and intermediates open to everyone. Monday nights we are at the Reitz 
Union Breezeway, located at 
655 Reitz Union Drive, with lessons from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. and social dancing from 8 p.m. 
to 11 p.m. 
Friday nights we are at the Unified Training Center, locat-ed at 809 W. University Ave., with lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 
p.m. and social dancing from 9 
p.m. to midnight. If you have any questions or would like to get involved, 
please find us on Facebook 
at facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/. We hope to dance with you all soon. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to afigueroa@alligator.org. 
To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-
ter above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the paper.STATE
Man says he was fired for 
wearing Muslim head covering
ORLANDO — An Ocala man 
has filed a religious discrimi-nation complaint claiming he 
was not allowed to wear an 
Islamic head covering while working as a restaurant server.In his complaint, Marlondejuan Guy told the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission that a manager at a franchise-
owned Denny's restaurant in 
Ocala told him in September 2014 that he was prohibited from working day shifts be-cause he wore a kufi.
He said he later received a let-
ter threatening him with ter-mination for violating the res-taurant's dress code policy. He 
was subsequently fired.
Guy said in a phone interview with The Associated Press he was the restaurant's only Muslim, and the only server denied working day shifts. He 
said he initially started out 
on day shifts during the more than six weeks he worked at the restaurant, but that treat-ment by management quickly 
changed.
Hurricane Joaquin gains force 
near Bahamas, heads toward US
MIAMI — A strengthening 
Hurricane Joaquin approached the central islands of the 
Bahamas on Wednesday eve-
ning, following a projected track that would take it near the U.S. East Coast by the 
weekend.
Maximum sustained winds reached 105 mph (165 kph) and extended 35 miles (55 ki-lometers) from the center of 
the storm over the Atlantic 
Ocean, according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami, which predicted 
Joaquin would develop into a 
major hurricane in the coming days.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 28
HIGH  88° LOW  70°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith, 
  Mia Gettenberg
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015
to replenish our electrolytes,” the 21-year-old 
said, “I’m not sure we can make it in that kind of heat with just water.”
Gatorade doesn’t only help athletes. UF 
receives more than $270 million in royalties 
from Gatorade, which helps fund research across the university, particularly in the Col-lege of Medicine, Segal said.
“We’re actually becoming more and more 
dependent on those Gatorade dollars to help 
investigate cures for people,” he said.
The impact of the royalties on UF is some-
thing Cade would have been excited about, said his daughter, Phoebe Miles, who co-founded the Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention. She spent a lot of time observing 
her father’s research at UF growing up.
“He was the most creative person I’ve ever 
met,” she said.
Gator fans can celebrate Gatorade’s 50th 
birthday prior to the game Saturday at Bubba 
Burger Gator Fan Fest, located outside Gate 2 of the Stephen C. O’Connell Center, Salamone said.Free, whose favorite ﬂ  avor of Gatorade is 
the original lemon-lime, said he hopes to see the funds from Gatorade do more good.
“The funds from Gatorade will continue 
to provide research funds at the University of Florida and hopefully stimulate young scien-tists to look for things that can be helpful to people throughout the world,” he said.
GATORADE,  from pg1Gatorade’s $270 million in royalties help fund UF research CAMPUS
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
As Europe struggles to ﬁ  nd an answer 
to the dilemma of what to do with the hun-dreds of thousands of people pouring into its countries, Gainesville residents and students came together Wednesday night to discuss 
what many are calling a refugee crisis.
To a room of about 50, UF professors dis-
cussed the facts of the migration and why 
refugees and migrants are making the dan-gerous journey toward Europe.
“For the ﬁ  rst time since the Cold War... 
Europe is actually facing a large inﬂ  ux of refugees from outside its region,” said Maria Stoilkova, who holds a joint position with 
the UF Center for European Studies and the 
Department of Anthropology at UF.
The Center for European Studies hosted 
the panel in Pugh Hall on Wednesday to in-form students about the refugee crisis. Four UF professors sat on the panel to discuss refugees who have ﬂ  ed Syria since 2011 due to its bloody civil war. While many refu-gees — especially Syrians — are in Middle 
Eastern countries, the professors focused on 
Europe’s response to refugees seeking safety and opportunity.
They speciﬁ  cally focused on what they called a mixed response from Europeans, with some welcoming the refugees with open arms and others showing hesitation and hostility, worrying about overpopula-tion and the consequences of welcoming so many refugees and migrants into their coun-tries.
Alin Ceobanu, assistant professor ap-pointed with both the Department of Soci-ology and the Center for European Studies, said the hostility toward refugees stems from xenophobia shared among Europeans and the rise of right populist parties.
“You’re going to ﬁ  nd that Europeans 
generally speaking do not accept those per-
ceived as outsiders with open arms,” Ceo-
banu said.
Furthermore, Europeans are divided over 
whether the thousands pouring in are refu-gees ﬂ  eeing war or migrants seeking eco-nomic opportunities.
“Throughout the crisis there’s been an-
other debate edged on whether Europe faces a refugee or migrant crisis,” Stoilkova said.
Yet for students wondering what they can 
do about the crisis, Ceobanu said the options are limited beyond donating to aid organiza-tions helping the refugees and migrants.
“Those immigrants or those refugees are 
human beings and they deserve the respect any one of us should be entitled to receive,” he said.
Gedaliah Dreyfuss, 19, said students 
should be informed about the crisis.
“There’s a responsibility, I think… to un-
derstand what goes on around you, so what goes on at UF, what goes on in Florida, in the United States and what’s going on abroad,” the UF geography freshman said.The dangerous journey: UF professors discuss refugee crisis
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
From left: UF professors Maria Stoilkova, Alin Ceobanu, Esther Romeyn and Alice Freifeld 
discuss the migration crisis in Syria and Europe in the Pugh Hall Ocora on Wednesday. 
TEN PERCENT OF SALES 
WILL GO TO FUNDRAISER. 
By Natalia Arteaga
Alligator Contributing Writer
Usually when Ally Blake goes out 
to dinner with her friends, they can’t 
decide on what to get.
But Friday, their decision will be 
easier because they plan to attend 
Cymplify Central’s First Friday Food 
Truck Rally where, Blake said, they will be able to choose from all the options.
“It’s like a picnic,” said the 
18-year-old applied physiology and kinesiology freshman. “I like the op-tion of not eating on campus.”
The rally, scheduled from 5 p.m. 
to 9 p.m., will serve as the culmina-tion of the Pitch In for the Kitchen fundraiser, which began in the Spring as a friendly competition be-tween the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar Association and the Alachua Coun-ty Medical Society. The organiza-tions challenged each other to raise 
$25,000 for a new kitchen at Grace Marketplace.
As of press time, the competition 
has raised $17,565. Alachua Medi-
cal School contributions are set at $8,880 and EJCBA contributions 
stand at $8,685.
“Not only will this provide meals 
for the residents, but also future job training,” said Robert Birrenkott, the 
president of EJCBA.
Birrenkott said the organizations 
partnered with Cymplify because they want to bring prospects of the 
community together and support a 
common goal.
As part of the rally, Cymplify will 
host food trucks, craft beer, wine, ice cream and performances by Alachua County students.
Ten percent of the evening’s sales 
will go toward the Pitch In for the Kitchen fundraiser, wrote Joanna 
Seamen, the projects and events manager at Cymply Fresh, in an 
email.
“At Cymplify, we value the com-
munity and love to support good people doing good things,” Seamen 
wrote.
At about 8:30 p.m., a bucket of 
ice water will be dumped on the los-
ing organization’s president, Birren-kott said.
“I’m just glad there’s going to be 
plenty of doctors, because I don’t handle the cold particularly well,” Birrenkott said. “I’m happy to do it 
for a good cause.” Food truck rally to raise money for Grace Marketplace 
“It’s like a picnic. I like the 
option of not eating on 
campus.”
Ally Blake
UF physiology and kinesiology 
freshmanTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
THE BUILDING WILL DOUBLE IN 
SIZE BY MAY 2016, AND 
THE WHOLE PROJECT WILL 
COST $25 MILLION.  
By Avery Guyton
Alligator Contributing Writer
Near the Student Recreation & Fitness Cen-
ter sits Farrior Hall, half made of brick and half 
of metal beams.
The hall, which is home to the UF College 
of Liberal Arts and Sciences’ advising ofﬁ  ce 
and UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Student Life, has been un-
der construction since December. The building will double in size by May 2016, said Joseph Spillane, the associate dean for student affairs.
The $25 million construction will create 
more study spaces, ofﬁ  ce spaces and a lecture hall, said Keith Carodine, senior associate ath-letics director of academic affairs. Both CLAS and the Ofﬁ  ce of Student Life have outgrown 
the current space.
The ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor of the expansion will feature 
a new lecture hall with 125 seats, and Caro-
dine said it will be a good place for students to study.  
The second and third ﬂ  oors will have ofﬁ  ce 
space for the Ofﬁ  ce of Student Life. Spillane said this will give the ofﬁ  ce more space to ad-vise university athletes.
Once the addition is complete, the old por-
tion of Farrior Hall will be renovated by De-
cember 2016, he said. The building is currently 
out of date, Carodine said.
The original Farrior Hall is 20 years old 
and was built speciﬁ  cally for academic advis-ing, Spillane said. When Farrior was built, the initial bid for the project cost $3.6 million, he said. The new construction will be totally fund-ed by the University Athletic Association.
UF political science freshman Seamus Love 
said he likes to study in Farrior Hall. He uses its quiet rooms, where no electronics are allowed.  
The 19-year-old track-and-ﬁ  eld runner goes 
to the hall for tutoring. He said athletes can re-quest tutoring if they ﬁ  ll out an online form.
“My tutors help me a ton with study hab-
its,” Love said.
He said he is excited to have more room 
to study.
“It’s very crammed for space when I’m 
studying,” Love said.  Farrior Hall construction will add lecture hall, study spaces
Emma Green / Alligator
A lone construction worker climbs a ladder on Wednesday inside what will become the 
Otis Hawkins Center for Academic and Personal Excellence, an extension to Farrior Hall, the main academic advising building on UF’s campus. 
By Ryan Harke
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students sat in Marston Sci-
ence Library, cellphones in hand, 
ready to call U.S. senators and rep-resentatives.
Wednesday night, 10 students 
lobbied from the library in support of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act (H.R. 1786), which makes funding available for ﬁ  rst responders who were injured or the families of those who were killed in the rescue and re-
covery efforts following the Sept. 11, 
2001 attacks.
UF history sophomore David 
Hoffman and history and Chinese ju-nior Caroline Nickerson planned the calling event, where they hoped to ﬂ  ood the voicemail boxes of Florida senators and representatives. Con-gress members have to sign to keep the act in effect before it expires Sat-urday, or else those beneﬁ  ting from it will lose their health care next Oc-
tober.
There are 17 Florida members of 
Congress who have not signed the 
act, including Sen. Marco Rubio (R- Florida). 
“First responders got these health 
problems directly from their service,” Nickerson, 21, said. “As citizens, we have a duty to provide health care to these people. If we as students don’t mobilize to call our representatives, these people will be forgotten.”
The act was introduced in Con-
gress earlier this year, according to the U.S. Congress website.
“They took care of us,” Hoffman, 
19, said. “Now it’s our turn to take care of them.”
Nickerson said she and Hoffman 
made a Facebook page for the event, encouraging their friends to call members of Congress. They posted Congress members’ phone numbers on Facebook, and 10 students called 
from home.
UF junior Nick Johnson said he 
attended because he admires the 
heroism of ﬁ  rst responders.
“The least we can do for the 
people that sacriﬁ  ced their lives and their livelihoods to help other Ameri-cans,” the 20-year-old said, “is to provide them with health care.”
UF students support 9/11 responders from Marston Library The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Body scans aren’t making us any safer
The Transportation Security Administra-
tion’s policies, intended to fulﬁ  ll the re-sponsibility to detect and deter terrorist plots in U.S. airports, use largely invasive and discriminatory procedures that end 
up proﬁ  ling whole groups of people.
The TSA started in November of 2001 in re-
sponse to the Sept. 11 attacks. The Intercept, an online media outlet, reported the TSA has a program called Screening of Passengers by Ob-servation Techniques. SPOT employs behavior-detection ofﬁ  cers who are taught to detect people who they believe express certain behaviors that indicate they may be potential terrorists.
These suspected individuals undergo secondary screen-
ings or are referred to law enforcement.
Some of the behaviors in the list included: exaggerated 
yawning, gazing down, rubbing or wringing of hands and widely opened eyes.
Based on its investigation, the TSA’s criteria of behavior 
detection — which has been shown to be based on faulty science — has often led to proﬁ  ling undocumented immi-grants, rather than potential terrorists.
The list of TSA policies got my mind to wonder who else 
these policies may end up including: trans folk, perhaps?
My worrisome fears were justiﬁ  ed last week when Shadi 
Petosky, a transgender woman, said she was harassed and detained for about 40 minutes after she passed through a body-scanning machine at a security checkpoint at the Or-lando International Airport, causing her to miss a ﬂ  ight be-cause of an “anomaly” (her penis).
Her hands were swabbed for traces of explosives, she 
was patted down twice and her luggage unpacked and searched.  
Petosky, a writer and producer at a small Los Angeles 
entertainment company, live-tweeted the ordeal, and it caught wind on social media with the hashtag #Traveling-WhileTrans. She tweeted, “I ﬂ  y all the time and this has never happened. I really thought the TSA was good about trans issues.”But this isn’t an isolated incident. Last year, 
Aljazeera America reported on three other inci-dents where travelers were subjected to height-ened scrutiny in airport checkpoints.
Petosky said while in detention, a TSA agent 
told her to go back through the body-scanning machine “as a man or it was going to be a prob-lem.”
The problem is the body-scanning machine 
that the TSA uses, aside from it being an invasive and unregulated technology, is designed to check for what may be considered “male” or “female” 
characteristics, which perpetuates this idea that anyone who does not ﬁ  t within this norm are deceivers and should 
be made to feel like the “other” — or, in this case, individu-
als who should be regarded with suspicion.  
TSA protocol entails that agents are to treat passengers 
as the gender they perceive them to be, which ends up as a non-acknowledgement of our authenticity, our existence.
Although, the TSA does have a speciﬁ  c policy regarding 
transgender people: “Transgender persons should use the name and gender that appears on their government-issued ID when making ﬂ  ight reservations and at the security.”
But it ends up pushing responsibilities onto the traveler 
rather than the TSA in making the effort to create a compre-hensive policy that does not “out” transgender travelers to other passengers and induce unneeded trauma.
It not only drags transgender people under suspicion, 
but people with intersex conditions as well.
But the assumption that body-scanning technology actu-
ally makes us any safer is not exactly true. A study released in August showed body-scanning machines, which were 
installed in about 160 airports, couldn’t detect 96 percent of 
covert tests conducted.
So why use this ﬂ  awed technology at the expense of 
further marginalizing trans and intersex folk and invading the privacy of all travelers? No one needs to know what’s inside our pants unless we’re letting them in.
Aubrey Krampert is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Thursdays.Pope Francis, 
gay marriage and 
actualizing change
It was reported Wednesday that Kim Davis, current 
conservative darling and avowed hatemonger, had a private meeting with Pope Francis during his visit to 
the U.S. last week. Per the Washington Post and NPR, 
the meeting occurred last Thursday at the Vatican Em-
bassy in D.C. Apparently the meeting had been arranged at the behest of the Vatican weeks in advance.   
      Through her legal team, Davis expressed that the meet-
ing, although brief, was profound for both her and Pope Francis, with both clasping each other’s hands and vowing to pray for one another. Francis also sent Davis off with a nice pair of rosaries.
We can’t possibly be the only people skeeved out by this. 
As we wrote in a previous Darts & Laurels, Pope Francis has become an adored public ﬁ  gure in both secular and religious circles. 
He is seemingly bridging his devout faith with “modern” 
values like believing in climate change and being compas-sionate to those who are different from you. Actively seek-ing to meet with Davis, a woman who has crafted celebrity out of hatred, ﬂ  ies in the face of all of that. If we’re be-
ing quite honest, on an emotional level, this almost feels 
like a betrayal; it was no mistake many have affectionately dubbed Pope Francis the “cool pope.”
This does not take away from Francis’ other achieve-
ments: Making climate change and social inequality perti-nent discussions in the Catholic world has been a needed and long-overdue change of pace. However, to positively acknowledge Davis’ crusade in any gesture, whether it be big or small, is tantamount to denying the humanity of LG-
BTQ+ Americans.
Like we acknowledged in the aforementioned Darts & 
Laurels, Francis, despite his accolades, is not infallible, and 
his meeting with Davis is perhaps the most salient example 
yet. 
If there is anything of value to be taken away from this 
scenario, it is the reminder that we cannot look solely to 
those in power for meaningful change. 
Although same-sex marriage is now a legal right in the 
U.S. courtesy of the Supreme Court, unwarranted hatred and bigotry are still the name of the game in many parts of the country — like Rowan County, Kentucky.
As the civil rights movement and ensuing years have 
shown, achieving legal recognition does not change societal conditions overnight. 
It is no mistake that Black Lives Matter emerged 50 years 
after the 1960s; despite progress, things have yet to be ide-al. All things willing, it will not take U.S. citizens another 
50 years to treat LGBTQ+ individuals with the same respect 
they would offer anyone else. 
In the meantime, it is up to compassionate citizens who 
share the desire to see others treated equally to be the 
change they wish to see in the world.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Aubrey 
Krampert
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
Hello Gators! My name is Joselin Pa-
dron-Rasines and I’m your Student Body president. Even more than 
that, I’m a Gator.
I made it my mission when I ran 
in the Spring to be open and accessible to all 
students, and I hope this column can help 
serve as an insight into Student Government, 
as well as be a way to get to know me a bit better. 
Even in my position, I am a regular stu-
dent taking classes, getting ready for gradu-
ation and trying to make UF a better place, 
just like everyone else. 
This is my inaugural column with the Al-
ligator, and I will be here monthly to give the 
Student Body and community a little insight 
into what it’s like to be SBP and talk about the many things going on in SG.
As a senior political science and interna-
tional studies major, I appreciate history in 
the world and in myself. 
I was born in Valencia, Venezuela, and 
moved to the U.S. when I was 6 years old. 
Growing up was incredibly fun. When you have a twin brother who loves to annoy you, it deﬁ  nitely keeps 
you on your toes. 
I also have a 12-year-old sister 
and she’s deﬁ  nitely ﬁ  ery, but it’s awesome having a sibling who is years apart. She always reminds me how people can have such 
unique perspectives on the world.
I can’t imagine the world with-
out my family. I am extremely 
family-oriented and my mom is my role model. I wouldn’t be the woman I 
am today without her guidance. 
One of my hidden talents is dance, and 
she sparked my interest in it. I grew up as a 
ﬂ  amenco dancer and later studied tap, bal-
let, pointe and jazz. 
That’s what led me to try out for the Sa-
bor Latino Dance Team as a freshman on 
campus. 
I don’t dance as often as I used to, but 
when music comes on in the SG ofﬁ  ce, you might catch me shimmying.
Aside from myself, I love representing 
you: the students. 
My favorite part of the job is getting to talk to with you and listening to your stories, what you want to get involved in and ﬁ  guring out 
how I can best help in the pro-
cess. 
My job is fueled by you and 
your interests so I pride myself on 
being a constant advocate.
Just this week, I was unbeliev-
ably inspired when I met a soph-
omore engineering student at a 
Freshman Leadership Engineering Group 
event who spoke so passionately about his 
new patent in 3-D printing. I feel so honored when I get to meet students like this because I hear about the amazing things happening 
at UF outside of the SG bubble.
In the past few months, SG has deﬁ  nitely 
been busy. 
We have expanded the hours at Marston 
Science Library, added six new tables on Turlington Plaza, started converting all-gen-
der bathrooms on campus and opened the Uber pilot program. 
Keeping our accountability to students in 
mind, we have also made SG ﬁ  nancial re-cords more public online and started public events with all of the SG ofﬁ  cers, where stu-dents can come and meet with them in an 
informal setting.
I am proud to announce next week is 
the beginning of Sexual Assault Awareness 
Week. 
As Gators, we must realize that “it’s on 
us” to end sexual assault. 
Stop by and see us tabling on Turlington 
Plaza to learn more about resources on cam-pus concerning sexual assault and how you 
can take the pledge to end it.
To wrap things up, I know exams are well 
underway; they have certainly been keeping 
me busy.
I wish you all the best of luck on them 
and, of course, good luck to the Gator foot-ball team as we take on Ole Miss this week-end. 
Come stop by my ofﬁ  ce or email me at 
president@sg.uﬂ  .edu.
Chao!Joselin Padron-Rasines is the UF Stu-
dent Body president. Her column appears 
monthly.Meet Joselin: Dancer, sister and your UF Student Body PresidentColumn
Joselin 
Padron-Rasines
opinions@alligator.orgof the election commission.
Access supporters arrived in 
a crowd just after 9:30 p.m. In 
a sea of blue, about 40 support-ers came together with Mango, a 
1-year-old fluffy white Samoyed dog, in tow. When Impact ar-
rived just before the announce-
ment of elections, it became a war of chants — Access’s “Blue” against Impact’s “Orange” — with Impact supporters hoisting a 9-month-old orange Pomeranian, named Luke, in the air.
“We have a lot of sweaty tired 
people out here,” said Access spokesman Michael Christ amid chants and Gator Chomps before the results. “We’re ready for re-sults.”
“I’m not a betting man. I’ll 
leave it to the polls,” Christ said.
Impact spokesman Chris Boy-
ett felt the election results would be positive.
“No matter what happens,” 
he said, “we’re going to do great work on campus.”
And for Impact, they were — 
even if some seats were won by a 
narrow margin.
“One vote, one vote,” chanted 
Impact members, jumping up and 
down as they celebrated winning 
the Keys Residential Complex 
seat by one vote.
Impact campaign manager 
Blake Murphy said he wasn’t sur-prised by the results.
“The next step is going to 
reach across the aisle to start figuring out our projects to com-promise so we can get back to 
work,” he said.
Access members hugged and 
wiped away tears, comforting 
each other.
Christ said the party will con-
tinue to work for change.
“As you’ve seen all through-
out history, change comes slow-ly, but it does come,” he said.Yet, despite the tears from her 
party members, Access President Kalyani Hawaldar was still envel-
oped in a hug by Murphy and Im-
pact founder Susan Webster after results were announced.
Hawaldar said Access will 
come back bigger and better in Spring.
“It doesn’t matter whether we 
win seats or we lose seats,” Ha-waldar said. “It’s all worth it.”
LEFT:
Impact Party campaign man-
ager Blake Murphy (left) and Impact Party founder Susan Webster (right) embrace Ac-cess Party President Kalyani Hawaldar after hearing the results of the Fall Senate elec-tions.  
BELOW:
Cole Gabriel, an Impact sena-tor, celebrates after learning he won the Keys Residential Complex Senate seat by one vote. 8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015
SG,  from pg1Party members hugged, cheered and congradulated each other
Aaron Albright / Alligator StaffDanielle Veenstra / Alligator StaffKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Rap duo Ying Yang Twins to perform in GNV
The Ying Yang Twins will perform Friday at High Dive, pg 13.What’s inside: 
The Avenue reviews “Big Grams” and “Fetty Wap, ” pg 10 and 11.Check out this week’s “Mediocre Advice, ” pg 10 and 11.       By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
My day began as a dude wearing 
a Jacksonville Jaguars hat, a match-
ing shirt and jeans. Somehow, in the course of another typical rainy Sun-day in Gainesville, I found myself 
untypically wearing makeup, a wig 
and women’s lingerie.
The cast and crew of the upcom-
ing live shadowcast performance of “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” at High Dive had a lot to do with that.
I’m an outsider. I’ve never actu-
ally seen the movie — which is ap-palling to the fans of the cult classic.
I waited in my car in the park-
ing lot of the venue for Shay Smith, who directs and plays the character 
Columbia in the performance, which 
will take place at High Dive on vari-ous dates throughout October.  Once inside of the normally loud and busy venue, I was struck by how quiet and empty the building was.
It wasn’t quiet for long.Performers trickled in, carrying 
boxes overﬂ  owing with costume 
pieces. Smith sorted through those 
bins as she called out to her group 
to arrange the stools in the audience. 
She wants her performers to be used 
to maneuvering and interacting in that space — an important part of their version of the show.
“We’re the only group I know 
that focuses on really getting out here,” Smith said, as she smacked her lips and caressed my face, “and playing with the audience.”
Smith said the importance of 
physically interacting with the au-dience is a simple but valuable tool to direct their attention to important scenes — or a magical act to make that person have the time of their life.
Smith’s son, Hayden Hudleston, 
who plays Frank N. Furter, echoed the sentiment. He has the job de-scription of corrupting the audience along with the show’s other main 
characters, Brad and Janet. He ﬁ  lled 
me in on his plans for his audience this year.
“I’m gonna sit (on) their lap; I’m 
gonna play with their face; I’m gon-na make them feel very involved in the performance,” Hudleston said.
He likes to seek out people who 
are enjoying the show but still have 
some reservations. His mission is to 
bring them out of their shells so they can have an amazing time. He be-lieves those are the people who have the most fun at the show. 
Deciding I wanted to join in on 
the fun, I meekly asked if they would be willing to put me in costume.Their reply was a stark contrast 
to my mumble and came much fast-er and with more enthusiasm: I was to be dressed up.
Shay created a domino effect of 
ﬁ  nding makeup and clothing for my 
costume, asking this person and tex-
ting that person before eventually having more than enough to put me in Frank N. Furter’s iconic drag.
Within minutes, I had my shirt 
off and was sitting on a stool as Hudleston and his girlfriend Rosie Kereston, who works stage crew and makeup, worked together to make 
me look the part.
I listened to the couple laugh as 
they told me about a confused store 
clerk who tried to match makeup for Kereston’s skin tone instead of Hudleston’s. In that moment, it struck me just how much this show  is part of their lives and how much they care about it. 
The couple instructed each other 
on how best to contour my face and nose before they began working on the bane of every girl’s makeup rou-tine — the furry creatures that live above each eye.
“And remember,” Hudleston 
said, “your eyebrows are sisters, not twins.”
Kereston conﬁ  rms with a giggle 
that turned into a whispered and throaty laugh before saying, “That’s good advice.”
While I’m instructed to make 
“soft eyes” and “soft lips” so the duo can paint my face just right, I ﬁ  nd it fascinating this is something the couple has truly bonded over: do-
ing makeup. Similarly, the show’s 
razor’s edge of androgynous behav-ior, which it has become famous for, is what makes it so interesting and timeless for its fans.Hudleston said it was “pretty 
huge” the ﬁ  lm had so much sexual 
liberty when it came out in the ‘70s. 
It questioned gender roles in a way that had never been done before.
“My character as the transvestite 
master of the house is pretty iconic in that movement,” Hudleston said.
When my costume was complete 
and my pictures were taken, it was hard not to feel a bit of good-spirited 
embarrassment. I imagine the partic-
ipants in the show’s “virgin games” must feel the same way. 
For the uninitiated, the virgin 
games are for those who have never attended a shadowcast performance of the show before. Even if someone is a huge fan of the ﬁ  lm, they can still take part in the games if they’ve 
never been to a live performance.
“(The games are) completely 
voluntary,” said Katey Sands, who 
plays the criminologist, “but it usu-ally increases the entertainment value for both the audience and the person there for the ﬁ  rst time.”
Sands intentionally revealed very 
little about the virgin games. An au-dience member can request to par-ticipate both before and during the show, but the games themselves are a surprise. Virgins can be spot-ted at the show with a “V” marked with red lipstick on their forehead or cheek.
The ﬁ  rst show date is Thursday 
at High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave., and tickets are available for $10 at the door or for $7 in advance on tick-etﬂ  y.com. Doors open at 9 p.m.
“The fact that people are still 
coming out 40 years after, shows that there’s something in this that is special to Rocky Horror,” Kereston 
said.
If you make your way to the 
show, you may just see a dude 
wearing a Jaguar hat with a lipstick “V” on his face.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
The ﬁ  rst of a series of shadowcast performances of the “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” will premiere tonight at High Dive, located 
at 210 SW Second Ave. Doors open at 9 p.m., and the show begins at 10 p.m. Tickets are available for $10 at the door or $7 in advance.
High Dive invites Rocky Horror show virgins, non-virgins 
The show begins tonightTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015
Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
Hip-hop trio Big Grams released their debut ex-
tended play “Big Grams” on Friday.
The group consists of former Outkast member Big 
Boi and American electronic-rock duo Phantogram 
(formerly Charlie Everywhere).
“Big Grams” starts off with Big Boi rapping over 
a funky electronic beat, with Sarah Barthel (one-half of Phantogram) on the hook.
“Run for Your Life” is an upbeat-but-relaxing 
song that sets the tone for the rest of the EP. The fol-lowing track, “Lights On,” begins with a guitar intro and an electronic beat that simultaneously build up until the two meet as the hook starts. Big Boi comes in and drops his verse at the end, making us remi-nisce his Outkast days.
“Fell in the Sun” was Big Grams’ ﬁ  rst single, 
which debuted on Zane Lowe’s Beats 1 radio show on Sept. 10. Phantogram shows out again with a dope electronic beat composed of a deep bassline, which includes a snare and a subtle jazz feel to it in the background.
Big Boi shows his versatility on “Fell in the Sun,” 
which might be my favorite song on the EP. The Atlanta rapper shouts out his city on “Put It On Her” over a rather simple beat compared to the rest of the EP, while Phantogram’s Josh Carter takes a break from producing and instead spits a 12-bar.
Phantogram really stands out in the ﬂ  awlessly 
produced “Goldmine Junkie.” The hook and addi-tional vocals are incredibly smooth, putting you in a trance.
“Born to Shine” is the EP’s sole feature coming 
from New York/Atlanta rap duo Run The Jewels. Killer Mike and El-P team up with Big Boi to kill this 
crazy beat Phantogram cooked up.
The last song, produced by Skrillex, is “Drum 
Machine,” and the title doesn’t lie. Skrillex takes 
full advantage of the drum machine with a heavy 
bassline and plenty of additional percussion sounds 
throughout the song. The complex dance track has a 
lot going on and is full of Phantogram vocals and a 
short Big Boi verse.
Although the album is only seven songs long, 
it may be the most enjoyable 27 minutes of music 
you’ve heard in awhile. In a time where uniqueness 
in the hip-hop scene is rare, Big Grams gives us a 
refreshing EP that will leave you wanting more. Big 
Boi’s classic style layered over the new-school pro-
duction and vocals from Phantogram blend togeth-
er perfectly. While this isn’t the ﬁ  rst time Big Boi 
and Phantogram have teamed up, it is the ﬁ  rst time 
they’ve made an ofﬁ  cial group release.
With “Fell in the Sun,” “Goldmine Junkie” and 
“Born to Shine” already getting a lot of radio play on 
Beats 1 and other stations, Big Grams is on the come 
up and already making noise.
 Big Boi, 40, shows that it’s never too late to 
try something new and, although short, the “Big 
Grams” EP is exactly what we need in hip-hop right 
now. If you’ve been sleeping on Big Grams, it’s time 
to wake up.Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
On Friday, Fetty Wap ﬁ  nally released his self-
titled debut album, “Fetty Wap.”
The 20-song deluxe album comes with nine fea-
tures from fellow Remy Boyz artist Montana “Mon-
ty” Buckz and a feature from M-80 on “Rock My Chain.” 
The album starts off with Fetty’s well-known 
hit “Trap Queen” and continues with “How We Do Things,” a song that details how far Remy Boyz have come since hitting stardom.
The album includes a different version of the 
popular “679,” which doesn’t feature P-Dice but in-
stead has a new verse from Fetty. He and Monty 
team up for their hits “Again” and “My Way,” but sadly, Drake’s remix is not on the album version of “My Way.”
The fourth song, “Jugg,” is another party anthem 
that you’ll be sure to hear on a Midtown night. Fetty Wap goes all-rap on “Boomin” but gets back to sing-ing and showing out for his squad on “RGF Island.” 
Perhaps my favorite song, “D.A.M.,” comes 
about midway through the album. The catchy tune has the same effect that “Again” and “My Way” have, meaning you’ll be dancing and singing along loudly to the hook.
Fetty has talked about how the Haitian culture 
has inﬂ  uenced him and his music, and it deﬁ  nitely shows on “I’m Straight,” which uses steel drums in the background and a catchy bass line that create a cool, Caribbean-sounding track. M-80 drops a dope 
verse on “Rock My Chain,” but the turn-up doesn’t 
last for too long. 
Further along, Fetty channels his inner Drake 
and preaches to the taken ladies while Monty thinks back to a previous relationship on “Rewind.” The 
album closes out with “For My Team” and “What-
eva,” which are more laid back compared to the rest of “Fetty Wap.”
The artist’s unique voice and style makes his 
music hard to describe; however, what’s impressive is how quickly Fetty Wap has risen to mainstream status.
 The New Jersey native ﬁ  rst hit the scene in April 
2014 but didn’t blow up until 2015. 
In January, Kanye West brought the artist out to 
perform “Trap Queen” during his Roc City Classic performance. 
With Yeezy’s co-sign, Fetty Wap became a star 
virtually overnight.
The star has perfected his signature voice and 
sound, and he hasn’t missed on any song he’s re-leased so far. 
Although he’s been putting out music for a cou-
ple years, Fetty Wap has dominated the charts all throughout 2015, becoming the ﬁ  rst artist since Emi-nem in 2013 to have three songs simultaneously on the Billboard Top-20 chart. 
Overall, “Fetty Wap” has some great songs and is 
a strong debut album from the 2015 XXL Freshman.  FETTY WAP ff the Record   BIG GRAMS ff the Record
How do I prevent freezing my face off in the coming months when 
I scoot around campus?
- Chill Guy
I can’t tell if you’re joking right now. Do you think that’s even 
possible? For your face to actually freeze off? In Gainesville, of all 
places?! I’m curious, so let’s consult the Internet to ﬁ  nd out. Accord-ing to weather-warehouse.com, the lowest temperature Gainesville has experienced during my time here is 22 degrees Fahrenheit, which was in February of this year. At this temperature, you won’t get frostbite. But scooting? Add, say, 35 mph in wind chill? Still won’t get frostbite. However, if temperatures get as cold as they did during the Great Blizzard of 1899 — thank you weather.gov — then you would be scooting in 6-degree weather! Add the 35 mph 
on your scoot and the adjusted temperature is a mere -19 degrees. 
Then, sir, in a frigid 30 minutes, your face will be frostbitten, and to my knowledge it will quite literally freeze and fall off.
I’m trying to grow a fresh beard. What are some styles that will get 
me some love in the college atmosphere? 
- Beard Man Jones
Did you not just read about the Great Blizzard of 1899? Oh, 
wait…never mind. I forgot these questions are submitted in advance and this isn’t a back-and-forth conversation. Regardless, why grow a beard for style when you may need it for survival?! You’re out here worried about a “fresh beard” when YOUR FACE CAN QUITE LITERALLY FREEZE AND FALL OFF. I get it; millennials believe in global warming. They also believe in other crazy stuff like evolution. DON’T LET THE LIBERAL MEDIA FOOL YOU INTO BELIEVING THIS. You’ll never see me print this again, but I swear I agree with 
MEDIOCRE ADVICEAnswering Questions with Questions
President Obama; college students are too “coddled” and “protect-ed from different points of view.” I mean, you could die, man, and you’re out here talking about style.
I just learned I’m allergic to gluten, cheese and semen (of all 
things lol). I get nauseous and it impairs my eyesight. I really love these foods and don’t know how to adjust. Do you have any me-diocre advice?
- Captain Jack
Allergic to semen?! Makes you nauseous and impairs your eye-
sight? Makes sense.
Honestly, gluten allergies are trending right now. Again, DON’T 
LET THE LIBERAL MEDIA FOOL YOU INTO THINKING YOU’RE SICK. Anybody heard of gluten allergies three years ago? I get it, some gluten people are going to get offended by this, so know that I’m sorry. Paninis are just so delicious.
In the words of Kanye West, Daft Punk and some try-hard 
named Friedrich Nietzsche: “Th- that that don’t kill me, can only make me stronger.” And to you, Captain Jack, I’m no scientist, but if you eat enough of the things you’re allergic to, you will even-tually build a tolerance against them. Do I recommend a diet of 
strictly gluten, cheese and semen? Well, I don’t really see why not.
Simon Moskovitz is a UF English senior. 
His column appears in the Avenue section 
on Thursdays. If you have any questions you would like to see answered in the weeks ahead, please email them to mediocre.
alligator.advice@gmail.com.THE ACTORS WILL 
SWITCH ROLES ON STAGE.
Ashlyn Pinter
Avenue Writer
At 7:30 p.m. Thursday, UF’s 
School of Theatre and Dance will 
debut its adapted version of “The 
Golden Dragon,” a production in 
which six actors play the full cast.
In this nonlinear story, the ac-
tors will transform into different 
characters on the stage, deliv-
ering lines from a new scene as they switch roles.
“It’s written for many char-
acters who have to change roles very quickly and adapt to all dif-ferent kind of ages and genders,” said professor Ralf Remshardt, 
the play’s director. “This is not 
a realist play, it’s a surrealistic play.”
Although “surrealistic,” the 
play takes its audience through real issues. Set in a Pan-Asian 
restaurant, “The Golden Dragon” 
follows the lives of ﬁ  ve immigrant cooks as they touch on topics ranging from relationship prob-
lems to gender roles. 
The play is centered on a cook 
who not only struggles with the 
issues attached to being an il-legal immigrant, but also suffers 
terrible toothaches while serving 
meals.The show, which originated in 
2009 from a German playwright, had its U.S. start in Washington, D.C. in 2011. The initial U.S. play 
only included ﬁ  ve actors. Pro-fessor Remshardt added a sixth 
actor, the Foley Artist, into the play. The actor will serve as a commentator and sound effects 
artist during the show’s events. Ernest Briggs, an actor who 
will play three different roles dur-
ing the show, hopes the audience will gain more than just a few 
hours of entertainment. In a short period of time, the 
play will try to answer as many 
questions about life as it can, he said. 
He wishes the play would 
spark discussion the audience may not have thought about prior to watching it.
“It touches on a lot of issues on 
gender, gender roles, race, race stereotypes, issues of work, and issues of immigration amongst many other things,” the 31-year-
old UF master’s candidate said.
 “The Golden Dragon” serves 
as a reminder about the prejudice 
and subconscious racism that’s 
still present today toward Asian 
immigrants, said Mallory Stef-fes, a 21-year-old UF theatre per-formance senior and one of the play’s actors.
Steffes plays three roles: a 
young Chinese man, the man in the striped shirt and the Barbie-F----r. 
The play is different in its sur-
real, experimental and slightly dark story than past UF produc-tions, Steffes said.
“The audience should expect 
to be really shocked. This isn’t a play that makes sense, nor is it a play that ends happily,” Steffes said. “Also, if they are anything 
like me, they might leave craving 
Chinese takeout.”12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
The UF School of Theatre and Dance will debut its version of “The Golden Dragon” at 7:30 p.m. 
tonight. The actors will transform into different characters while on stage.
UF Theatre and Dance production to premiere tonight By Elena Castello
Avenue Writer
A new app has hit the market. It’s a tradi-
tional social media network app with a hint 
of exclusivity. Why should you download it? David Jumper, the head of the Speakiesy app, said it’s your connection to campus.
Ariel Halle, a UF industrial and systems 
engineering senior, has been involved in the movement of Speakiesy. The 22-year-old said the app is a personal UF network that con-nects people to campus.
“I’ve seen people use it to post pictures 
from game day to advertisements for their clubs,” he said. “We had this one kid who was making beef jerky and he was trying 
to sell it on campus. So different things like 
that.”
According to Jumper, 29, all posts disap-
pear after 90 days, which means parents and potential employers won’t get a chance to see the activity after three months. The new app ofﬁ  cially launched on Sept. 5.
When creating an account, a full name, 
username and “.edu” email address are need-
ed. This ensures that each user is a student 
and there are no “fake” proﬁ  les or outside users. From there, text, pictures and videos can be posted. Users can also bookmark their own hashtags to save and follow. Speakiesy is exclusive to the “@uﬂ  .edu” email.
“It’s relatable,” Jumper said. “No matter 
if you’re the frattiest of bros or you’re an in-ternational student and you’ve come to ﬁ  nd 
your way. You can relate as a Gator to what 
is on Speakiesy.”
He respectfully declined to answer the number of users currently on Speakiesy.
One of the issues he said he wanted to 
avoid was the clutter found on Yik Yak and 
the negativity that can come with anonym-
ity. When people are just cruel, he said, they aren’t held accountable. Speakiesy ﬁ  xes that and gives the campus an exclusive network.
Speakiesy has reached more than 100 total 
campuses. 
Sameer Saboungi, a UF international stud-
ies and political science senior, thinks there are already way too many apps. 
“There’s Facebook, Yik Yak, Instagram, 
Tumblr, Reddit, everything,” he said.
Saboungi uses what he considers the three 
main apps: Facebook, Twitter and Instagram 
— in that order. When companies bring out 
a new app, he said, it’s difﬁ  cult for people to make the transition to the new app.
For Saboungi, there’s already a set sta-
tus quo in social media. He believes people wouldn’t be motivated to switch unless the appeal to switch was strong.
The layout of the app is similar to other so-
cial media networks, but Jumper knows that. 
“We’re not saying ‘stop using Instagram, 
use Speakiesy,’” he said. “We’re saying ‘use Speakiesy because it is your outlet to cam-pus.’”New app connects campus
TECH
WHAT’S HAPPENING IN GAINESVILLE
By Laura Gomez
Avenue Writer
As Friday approaches, you might 
ﬁ  nd yourself in need of plans — and 
though it may not seem like it, there’s 
a lot more to Gainesville than just 
Gator football. 
If “Netﬂ  ix and chill” just isn’t the 
same with your roommate gone — 
or your signiﬁ  cant other back home 
for the weekend — then I have a ﬁ  x for you. Here’s what’s going on in Gainesville this weekend.
High Dive210 SW Second Ave.Apparently, the band’s manager 
said it was too late for Los Angeles 
band FIDLAR to give us a phone inter-
view, but “F--- It Dog, Life’s a Risk.” That’s what their name stands for.
 Maybe this week’s Jimmy Kimmel 
appearance tied them up too much, 
said Pat Lavery, exclusive promoter 
for High Dive. 
Regardless, you can catch the ga-
rage-punk band live on Saturday.
Tickets can be purchased for $17 
at the door of for $15 in advance on ticketﬂ  y.com.Newberry Cornﬁ  eld Maze20015 W. Newberry Road
Tired of hitting up Midtown every 
weekend? 
The Newberry Cornﬁ  eld Maze 2015 
will continue to run Friday through 
Sunday throughout the month of Octo-
ber. Adult tickets can be purchased for 
$10, tickets for children 10 years old and under  can be purchased for $8 and additional hayrides are $5. 
The haunted corn maze and haunt-
ed house open at dusk, and according to the company’s website, you should only “enter if you dare.”
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts3201 Hull RoadDid someone say free? 
Student Government Productions 
and the Hispanic Student Associa-
tion are celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month 2015 the best way they know how – by offering students a free con-
cert with rapper Fat Joe and Domini-
can-American musical group Fulanito on Friday. 
Doors open at 6:30 p.m., so if you’re 
looking for a pre-ﬁ  esta before hitting up Midtown, this event is for you.
“W e had this one kid who was 
making beef jerky and he was trying 
to sell it on campus.”
Ariel Halle
UF industrial and systems
 engineering seniorBy Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer
“To the window, to the wall,” and now 
to Gainesville on Friday.
The Ying Yang Twins are returning to 
Gainesville after having performed at High 
Dive in July 2014, a show which according 
to Pat Lavery, owner of Glory Days Pres-
ents, was one of the biggest and wildest shows High Dive has ever hosted.
The Atlanta-based hip-hop duo best 
known for their early-2000s bangers, “Get Low,” “Salt Shaker,” “Shake” and “Wait (The Whisper Song),” will perform at 8 p.m. at High Dive, located at 210 SW Sec-ond Ave.
According to rapper D-Roc, the show last 
summer was “turnt up,” and rapper Kaine only had one word to describe their upcom-ing performance: “entertainment.”
The Ying Yang Twins are not actually 
twins. The duo met through Kaine’s mentor and D-Roc’s cousin.
“They used to always tell us about each 
other and then we ﬁ  nally met,” D-Roc said. “We’ve been rocking and rolling ever 
since.”
Kaine and D-Roc, also known as Eric 
Jackson and Deongelo Holmes respective-ly, began their joint music career back in 
2000 with the single “Whistle While You Twurk,” which peaked at No. 17 in the 
R&B/Hip-Hop Billboard charts.
This was before “twurking” became 
twerking, which was formally recognized in 
2013 by the Oxford Dictionary Online.
The rappers were some of the pioneers 
who helped bring Southern crunk and Southern hip-hop to the mainstream music scene. They had no idea their music would transcend to the point it did.
“At that time, I can’t tell you we were 
thinking that it was going to be as big as it was. It was just us making music at that time so it was the fun that was in it,” D-Roc said. “That was our peaking year so we were just, you know, in the moment.”
Perhaps the biggest breakthrough the 
Ying Yang Twins take credit for is being part of “Get Low,” a collaboration with Lil Jon. 
The song is known for its infectious beat 
and infamous lyrics: “To the window, to the wall, ‘til the sweat drop down my balls…” The rest of the lyrics can be found online.
The song peaked at No. 2 in the Billboard 
Hot 100. It has been referenced in ﬁ  lms like “White Chicks,” “Coach Carter,” “The Pro-posal” and “The Hangover.”
The crunk hit also made it into comedian 
Chris Rock’s stand-up routine, “Govern-ment Hates Rap.” While D-Roc has yet to see the routine, he doesn’t see any foul play in it. 
“You know you made good music when 
it’s still being talked about,” he said.
Their songs and the crunk genre have 
maintained their relevance with twerking having gone mainstream thanks to viral vid-eos — and Miley Cyrus. 
“Once Miley Cyrus started twerking, ev-
erybody just accepted it,” he said.
According to the rappers, twerking start-
ed in the South. 
“Within our culture growing up, you 
know, from the South that’s what we grew up looking at,” D-Roc said. “That was the dance; twerking’s been going on since be-fore I was going.”
Aside from their classics, the audience 
can also expect new music at the show. The duo recently released a song titled “Thun-dercat” with DJ duo Pyramid Scheme.
“Everyone can expect a very live show,” 
D-Roc said.
The Ying Yang Twins are eager to put 
on a show, regardless of the venue or audi-ence size.
“The Ying Yang Twins have never really 
put a cap on where we perform at,” Kaine said. “We do small venues, we do birthday parties, we don’t really worry about big 
stuff, you know, small money is still money 
and everybody deserves entertainment.”
When asked if they wanted to let their 
guests know anything in particular, D-Roc said he wanted to let everyone know the Ying Yang Twins “stay working, twerking like HHHAAANNNHHH!”
Tickets can be purchased for $21 at the 
door or for $18 on ticketﬂ  y.com.THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
Courtesy to the Alligator
The rap duo needs no introduction, but if you haven’t had the chance to “get low” to their music before, you should check 
out The Ying Yang Twins performing on Friday at High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave.
Rap duo Ying Yang Twins to perform at High Dive Friday
MUSICTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    10-13-15-20-2
Historic Duck Pond: Vintage two-story 3bed/2bath available now. This clean, spa-cious home is beautifully restored! Walk to Downtown, Innovation Square, or UF. $1595/mo. Call/text Anita: 352-575-4395. email: 217@cozygator.com    10-1-15-5-2
● ● HOUSE FOR RENT ● ●2927 SW 1st Ave. Across from UF Golf Course   4-5BR/3BA, W/D,DW, cent AC/heat Only $1,775/mo No application fee, all pets ok. 352-258-0025       10-7-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
Roommate-large beautiful T/HWanted-non smoker, clean, responsibleIncl-all utilities, cable pool, fitness10 min to Santa Fe- 15 to UF $550/moCall- 941-356-4841       10-5-15-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15 
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
We are a local Christian Preschool hiring 
a young two/older three year old afternoon assistant. Must have experience working with children. 45 hour DCF training is not re-quired, but preferred. This is a PART TIME position, only 20 hours/week- you must be able to work Monday through Friday 1:30-5:30. Please reply by calling Angie or Brittani between 10:00am and 3:00pm at 352-373-5856   10-1-15-10-14PETITION CIRCULATORS NEEDEDUp to $20-30 per hour or moreNo experience necessary Start today(386) 233-9939    10-8-15-14-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hir-ing bar/deli help. Must have reliable transp. Saturday availability required. Applications now being accepted at the 2327 NW 13th street location.    10-5-15-5-14
Work for Subway!Are you looking for a great job with flexible schedules, regular opportunities for raises and opportunities for advancement? If so a job at Subway might be perfect you. We are now accepting applications from friendly people. Simply email subway4gainesville@yahoo.com and write "I'm interested!" in the subject line. Directions will follow via email.   10-5-15-5-14
Attractive & Fit Female Graduates Wanted
for South FL based modeling assignments.
You must be a college graduate, well
spoken, and mature. A good personality is
also required. PT or FT opportunity. You
must be living in or ready to move to South
FL. We can help you plan for your future:
business, health insurance, and retire-
ment guidance is part of our package. Earn
$4,000-$12,000 per month depending on
your motivation and availability. Email your
resume and physical stats to Taylor:
Ms.MiamiModels@gmail.com
10-6-15-5-14
P/T Babysitter for family with 4 kids age 6-12 (not always for all at once). $12/hr. Play, help with homework, dishes, school/activity driv-ing. Experience required. Email resume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu    10-2-15-3-14
 
CITT Web Services captioning has an OPS part-time position for typist to assist with transcribing video recorded lectures. Knowledge of ADA standards a plus.  Must be an excellent listener and able to type 40 correct words per minute. 15-20 hours/week  8.05/hr . Send resume to Kim Standifer standik@ufl.edu   10-13-15-10-14
 
Live & work in Atlanta, rent free!FT Nanny & Personal Assistant needed for Gator grad couple w/ 2 young boys. Good salary + free rent. Email geoff@352inc.com to apply.   10-7-15-5-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop Monday - Thursday, 10/5-10/8 from 5-7 p.m. each day.  Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu or call 392-2010 to register.      10-5-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.  
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
Designated drivers are the greatest
15 Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
With a big lead against Missouri, the 
Gators crumbled.
After jumping out to a 2-0 match lead 
against Missouri and gaining a 7-0 advantage 
in set three, Florida looked poised to bounce back from a loss to Kentucky on Sunday with ease.
But Carly Kan and the Tigers fought all the 
way back to take down the No. 9 Gators 3-2 
(25-22, 25-20, 21-25, 19-25, 10-15) Wednes-
day night in Columbia, Missouri.
Florida (9-3, 1-2 Southeastern Conference) 
has now dropped back-to-back games versus SEC opponents for the first time since 2011.
After senior middle blocker Simone An-
twi assembled just three kills in Florida’s loss to Kentucky, she came out swinging early 
against Missouri.
Antwi slammed down six kills on nine er-
rorless attempts in the opening set that saw 16 
ties and seven lead changes.
At 22-22, Antwi blistered a ball from 
Mackenzie Dagostino to take a one-point lead and help Florida win the set 25-22.
Antwi finished the match with eight kills 
Coach Emily Glaser and the Florida women's golf team will use a diverse lineup in the Windy City Classic. Read the story on pg. 18. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athleticsfollow us on Twitter at @alligatorsports or online atwww.alligator.org/sports.THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Dominique Easley named honorary Mr. Two Bits 
Former UF defensive lineman Dominique Easley will serve as the honorary 
Mr. Two Bits during Florida's game against Ole Miss on Saturday. Easley played for UF from 2010-13 and was selected in the first round of the 2014 NFL Draft by the New England PatriotsFlorida collapses on the road to Missouri
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF middle blocker Simone Antwi swings for a kill attempt duiring Florida's 3-1 win against Florida State on Sept. 20 at 
the O'Connell Center. 
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 19
BROOKE SHARP HAS 
FIVE GOALS IN THE 
LAST SIX MATCHES.  
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
 
It was known before the 
season started that Savannah 
Jordan would be one of the na-
tion’s top goal scoring threats.In fact, the junior forward is 
alone at the top of the NCAA goals leaders with 12 on the season, as she’s creeping closer and closer to the top of No. 12 
Florida’s all-time list — where 
American soccer star Abby Wambach waits at the top.
And with the loss of key 
creators such as Havana So-
laun, Annie Speese and Tessa 
Andujar, the goal count from Jordan shows 
that some of the new faces in the midfield have 
been able to 
step up and push the ball forward.
However, the Gators also 
have another forward making her presence felt: junior for-ward Brooke Sharp.
Before this season, Sharp re-
corded just five combined goals in her two-year college career. 
She started out the 2015 
season on a quiet note, going scoreless in the team’s first four games.
However, in the team’s fifth 
game, a home matchup against 
Oklahoma State, the Ponte Ve- Junior supplying necessary goals for Gators 
SEE STORY,  PAGE 19FOOTBALL
Florida’s wide receivers haven’t lacked 
talent in recent seasons.
That’s at least what Kerry Dixon, the 
man charged with fixing UF’s receiving is-
sues, says and believes.
“I had to hear that a lot, the lack of tal-
ent at the position,” Dixon said. 
“When I look at it it’s not a lack of tal-
ent, it’s a lack of consistency. 
“Any time you have that much turn-
over at one spot, those guys are hearing so much different stuff and they’re being 
taught totally different things all the time.”
The turnover he’s referring to is at the 
wide receiver coach position, which, with 
the addition of Dixon, has seen seven dif-
ferent men in charge in as many seasons.
That’s a lot of different voices and meth-
ods to try to grasp, and as soon as players 
had a chance to gain an understanding of one system, a new coach was hired and 
quickly replaced it with a new system.
The results haven’t been good.
Besides the quarterback position, UF 
wideouts have been some of the most ma-
ligned, criticized and disappointing players 
on the team’s roster, routinely failing to live up to the expectations their recruiting rankings placed upon them.
Since 2010, the Gators have had just 
one receiver catch for more than 600 yards. 
If you’re counting, that’s five seasons.The only player to do so was Demar-
cus Robinson last season, and while he did 
catch 53 balls for 810 yards, he consistent-
ly struggled with fundamental mistakes, particularly drops.
When Dixon got his first look at his re-
ceiving corps, he could immediately see 
the effects from having a different coach 
each year.
“When I first got here, I could see the 
lack of consistency,” Dixon said. 
“I thought they had some ability. "But I thought you could tell route-
running wise and different things that they did, they just needed consistency and they needed coaching.”
Dixon is trying to put things in place to 
build that consistency.
At the end of every practice, receivers 
now participate in catching drills in an ef-Consistency 
key for UF receivers 
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 19Sharp
18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
After breezing through the Fall’s 
first two tournaments with two top-
five finishes, the women’s golf team will face their biggest challenge yet at the Windy City Classic on Mon-
day. 
“It will be probably the best field 
that we play in all Fall,” coach Em-
ily Glaser said. 
No. 19 Florida’s starting lineup at the Westmoreland Country Club in Chicago, Illinois, will feature only 
one difference compared to its pre-
vious lineups — the addition of ju-nior Kelly Grassel.
“Well she is from Indiana, so she 
has some experience … playing the type of golf course that we’ll see this week,” Glaser said. 
Grassel also competed at the 
Mercedes-Benz Collegiate Champi-
onships on Sept. 21-22, as an indi-
vidual, where she tied for 34th. 
Another name people are start-ing to recognize after the Collegiate Championships is freshman Sam 
Wagner. 
After taking third place in the 
previous tournament, Glaser award-
ed her with the No. 1 starting slot in the Windy City Classic.
“What really impressed me 
about her was that she came back, and she was really willing to have open conversations about what she 
wanted to do to get better,” Glaser 
said of Wagner.  
The No. 2 slot will go to Maria Torres, a junior who has placed 15th and 13th in the season’s first 
two tournaments, respectively. 
“She’s a very consistent player, 
obviously, just by her finishes and 
things she’s done here over the last couple years,” Glaser said.
Despite back-to-back top-15 fin-
ishes, Glaser wants Torres to stay on her toes, especially with the team’s underclassmen itching for a 
spot in the starting lineup. 
Grassel and junior Karolina 
Vlckova will play in the three and four slots, while sophomore Taylor 
Tomlinson will take the fifth and fi-
nal spot. 
Although the Gators have their 
personnel covered, they’ll still have 
to iron out some kinks in their game before teeing off in Chicago. 
“(The previous tournament) 
exposed some weaknesses which, early in the year, I think is very positive and is something that we 
want,” Glaser said, “so we have a 
clear idea of the things that we want to work on.” UF to use mixture of youth and experience in Chicagoand four blocks.
In the second set, UF and Missouri (13-1, 1-0 SEC) 
exchanged points back-and-forth early on before the 
Gators took a 21-17 lead.
But three straight points, including kills from Kan 
and Emily Thater and a Kira Larson ace inched Mis-souri closer at 21-20.
To keep the Tigers off Florida’s back, junior right-
side hitter Alex Holston stepped up and delivered.
Holston pummeled a kill the very next point, and 
with set point at 24-20, she served up an ace between two Tigers in what looked like a miscommunication to win the set 25-20.
Holston finished with a team-high 13 kills in the 
match.
By the beginning of the third set, Missouri looked 
gassed.
Florida raced out to a 7-0 lead behind the serving 
run of senior outside hitter Ziva Recek.
Recek, who missed UF’s last three games because 
she was playing for Slovenia’s national team in Europe, looked right at home. She added a kill and her second ace of the match during the run.But the Tigers came roaring back in what would be 
the turning point of the match.
Missouri came all the way back to tie the game at 
17-17 and took an 18-17 lead after a Regan Peltier kill.
Then, Missouri’s All-American, Carly Kan, came to 
life. 
The 5-foot-9 outside hitter tallied back-to-back kills 
to take a 21-18 advantage and paired with Thater to block Holston and win set three 25-21.
Kan, who leads the SEC in kills per set, finished with 
a match-high 17 kills.
The Tigers continued to ride their momentum into 
the fourth set.
Missouri led 13-9 following a Holston miss, but Flor-
ida rallied back to tie the set at 14-14 after back-to-back kills by Dagostino.
But Missouri dominated the rest of the set, going on 
an 11-5 run to take the set 25-19.
In the fifth set, Missouri jumped out to a 10-7 lead 
after a Rhamat Alhassan attack error.
UF cut the deficit to one point twice when Recek 
slammed a kill to make it 10-9 and 11-10.
But the Tigers won the final four points and capped 
off the set and match after blocking Recek.
Florida is now 0-2 in five-set matches this year after 
dropping a thriller to Hawaii on Sept. 11. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19  
VOLLEYBALL,  from pg17Florida drops back-to-back SEC 
games for the first time since 2011dra native showed a glimpse of 
what she can bring to the team’s offense.
She scored her first goal of 
the season in the 27th minute to bring the game to a 1-1 tie, and she scored the game-winning goal 
with 19 seconds left in overtime.
Since that game, she has scored 
five goals in six matches, with the Gators going 4-2 in that span.
Sharp’s emergence has added 
a new dimension to a Florida of-
fense that seemed to rely on Jor-dan for goals early in the season. 
Before Sharp stepped up her 
game, Jordan faced much more pressure from defenses than she does now.
Often, Jordan was double 
teamed by opposing defenses, and was sometimes taken out of the game because teams saw her as the Gators’ only legitimate scoring 
threat.
Sharp’s play has changed how 
teams prepare for a Florida team 
that ranks first in the Southeastern 
Conference in goals and is tied for 
first in assists. 
Now, midway through the 
regular season, Jordan and Sharp 
sit as the highest scoring duo in the NCAA, combining for 19 goals thus far. 
The team's midfielders appear 
to have grown more trusting of 
Sharp — and she's made sure not 
to disappoint. 
One of the keys to her game is 
the ability to secure field position 
with the ball and wait for the play 
to develop. 
It's a trait that Jordan herself 
has relied on to score goals during her UF career. 
Both forwards possess the abil-
ity to protect the ball and extend possessions when the ball is in the attacking third. 
“That’s really key for us,” se-
nior defender Claire Falknor said of the forwards’ ability to hold possession.
“They’re good players to feed 
the balls off of and they can hold the defenders off.”
Self-trust, a characteristic that 
coach Becky Burleigh has men-
tioned to describe Sharp in pre-
vious weeks, is also serving as a factor in the forward’s success this season.
Without the elements of confi-
dence and self-trust, it can be dif-ficult for a player to be aggressive in a time of need.
That doesn’t seem to be an is-
sue for Sharp this season.
“She’s taking her opportunities 
more,” Burleigh said.SOCCER,  from pg17Sharp and Jordan are 
the highest-scoring 
duo in the country fort to shake off the drop prob-
lems that have plagued Florida in recent years and get into the 
habit of making routine recep-
tions.
When the drills are over, the 
coaches make a drop chart that 
lists every drop each receiver 
committed during every situa-tion that day.
Dixon then puts the chart up 
in the receiver room for them all 
to see.
“It’s accountability,” Dixon said. 
“You have to own up to it and 
get better at it.”
His methods aren’t rocket sci-
ence. He would admit that him-
self if asked. 
In fact, before coming to UF, 
Dixon had no experience coach-ing receivers — he coached quarterbacks and running backs 
at various stops in his career. 
But that hasn’t mattered to 
his players, who seem to have 
responded to his methods with fewer drops and more playmak-
ing.
“They don’t care about how much you know,” Dixon said. “They want to know how much 
you care.”
Finally, those receivers have 
someone they know they can count on, someone who might 
stick around for more than a 
year.
Finally, they might have 
someone who might be able to 
give them some consistency.
“That’s the one thing I want 
those guys to take from that 
guy,” McElwain said. 
“They needed someone that 
they knew was going to be there.”FOOTBALL,  from pg17Dixon holding receivers accountable
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Demarcus Robinson jumps to avoid a tackle during Florida's 14-9 win against 
Kentucky on Sept. 19 at Commonwealth Stadium in Lexington, Kentucky. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF forward Brooke Sharpe takes a shot duing Florida's 2-1 loss to T exas A&M on Sept. 10 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015
