We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 32 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015
UF men’s golf team takes second at 
Jerry Pate National
Four of UF’s ﬁ  ve competitors ﬁ  nished in the 
top-10 individually, pg. 14
UF students start and end Islamic fast together
Some went to IHOP for a pre-fast meal, pg. 5
Locals gather to test bat trivia
They raised money for conservation, pg. 9Students de-stress at UF 
fruvement event
They made stress balls and played with dogs. 
Check out the story and photo story, pg. 8
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
A 7-year-old boy in Naples is getting a 
special Christmas present — an arm.
A team of about 20 UF engineering stu-
dents are building a bionic arm for the boy for free. The group is part of the nonproﬁ  t 
Limbitless Solutions, which creates bionic limbs for children aged 5 and older who are missing arms or ﬁ  ngers.
Limbitless was started at the University 
of Central Florida in 2014, said Stephanie Valderrama, 22, the campaign strategist for Limbitless Solutions. The UF branch is the ﬁ  rst chapter to open outside of UCF.
The group was started last Spring, af-
ter UF engineering students saw the UCF Limbitless chapter give a presentation at the Society of Asian Scientists and 
Engineers’conference at UF, said Santiago 
Marin, 21, who is one of the founding stu-dents of the UF chapter.
“It shouldn’t just be limited to Orlan-
do,” the UF mechanical and aerospace en-
gineering senior said.
Over the summer, the Orlando leaders 
gave UF students the task of building a pro-
totype arm, Marin said. The orange-and-
blue arm, an homage to The Gator Nation, 
was completed on July 31.
The UF limb was created using a 3-D UF engineering students build bionic limbs
CAMPUS
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Jim Obergefell will tell UF stu-
dents how he helped make his-
tory.
Obergefell, the lead plaintiff 
in the Supreme Court case that 
made same-sex marriage legal 
across the country (Obergefell v. Hodges), will speak about his per-sonal life and the events leading up to the historic case Oct. 14 at 8 p.m. in the University Audito-rium, said Carolyna Guillen, UF Pride Student Union’s internal vice president.
Guillen, a UF microbiology and 
cell science junior, said she thinks Obergefell is the perfect speaker for PSU’s Pride History Week, which starts Monday.  
“He helped us make history,” 
the 20-year-old said. “I see him as a really huge pioneer in our move-ment.”Pride Student Union and Ac-
cent Speaker’s Bureau partnered to pay about $20,000 to bring Obergefell to campus, said Kevin Gerson, Accent chairman.
Students can 
pick up a ticket 
for the event 
with their Gator 1 Cards at 6 p.m. the day of the event at 
the auditorium. The general public can pick 
up tickets at 7 p.m., said Gerson, 
a UF political campaigning gradu-
ate student.
The 21-year-old said he’s ex-
cited for Obergefell to come and spark conversations about LG-BTQ+ issues across campus.
“This is truly a unique oppor-
tunity to hear from the man who is at the center of one of the most 
consequential Supreme Court cas-
es of the 21st century,” he said.Jim Obergefell to speak 
on LGBTQ+ progress
LIGHTING WAS INSTALLED ON 
SOUTHWEST NINTH ROAD.
By Brooke Baitinger
Alligator Staff Writer
bbaitinger@alligator.org
Tuffy-Brown Dog didn’t get to socialize with 
any students Tuesday evening.
The 3-year-old Norwich terrier accompa-nied his owner, University Police Chief Linda 
Stump-Kurnick, to a streetlight upgrade cel-
ebration to play with students in attendance.
But there were no students — just city and 
university ofﬁ  cials.
The event celebrated the installation of 
high-efﬁ  ciency LED lighting just before the roundabout on Southwest Ninth Road, which will create a safer environment for pedestrians, cyclists and drivers after dark. But despite the 
homes ﬁ  lled with students nearby, no students came Tuesday night.
Stump-Kurnick said she brought her dog 
speciﬁ  cally for the students.
“I expected a lot more students to be here,” 
she said. “And I know students love to see dogs 
because theirs are at home.”
Just under 20 people gathered beneath the 
upgraded streetlamps to discuss the beneﬁ  ts of the high-efﬁ  ciency lights.
Stefan Broadus, the streetlight project man-
ager, said the project cost about $20,000. Much of the lighting has already been installed on 
most of Depot Avenue and Main Street, he said.
“It’s going to create better lighting, but also 
increased uniformity,” he said. “As a runner or 
a biker, what you want to avoid is going from bright to dark to bright again.”
The upgraded lights use about 50 percent 
less energy than traditional amber lighting, he said. Despite the lack of students, Mayor Ed Student attendance was absent at streetlight celebration The limbs are built for kids
SEE LIMB,  PAGE 4“It shouldn’t just be limited to Orlando.” 
Santiago Marin
UF mechanical and aerospace 
engineering senior
Aaron Albright/Alligator Staff
NEXT IN CHARGE
UF Student Senator Susan Webster (Impact, District A) gives her candidacy speech for Student Sen-
ate President during the second Student Senate meeting on Tuesday at the UF Levin College of Law. Webster won the post and will replace Davis Bean as Senate President. For the full story on page 4.Obergefell
SEE LIGHT,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Trivia Puppet Show
Get your geek on with a new 
and unusual event, the Trivia Puppet Show. Come show off your know-how and get into 
the spirit of the season with 
fall trivia at Maude’s Sidecar today at 101 SE Second Place. Impress your friends with your knowledge of Halloween, hor-ror movies, pumpkin spice and more — all with puppets. Prizes up to $20. The event starts at 8 p.m.
GatorNights
GatorNights will have a “Price is Reitz” themed event Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature human bowling, dunk-tank-a-zombie and a sticky wall. GatorNights will also be 
hosting the movie “Ant Man” 
at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free tacos and nachos during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to 
participate. Students are al-
lowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Mid-Autumn Festival
UF’s Chinese American Student Association and Chinese Student Association are host-ing a Mid-Autumn Festival 
show Saturday in the Reitz 
Union Grand Ballroom. There will be free food and a variety of performances. The show will also feature cultural activi-ties and free raffles. \Mid-Autumn is a time to cele-brate the harvest, the moon and being with family. The show, 
“Coming Home: A Journey 
Through China,” will incor-porate these themes through a compelling narrative woven between performances. The show is free and for all ages. Doors open at 6 p.m., and the show starts at 6:30 p.m.
She’s the First
She’s the First {UF} is host-ing its first #DayOfTheGirlUF summit Sunday from 9 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. in celebration of International Day of the Girl Child. This event will be a half-day conference made up of speak-
ers, panels and workshops. 
The goal is to highlight cur-rent issues regarding women, health, careers, education and more. For more details, visit dayofthegirluf.splashthat.com.
African Americans in Paris 
class informationAt 2 p.m. today, Sharon Austin, director of the African American Studies Program and associate professor of po-litical science, will provide information about her African Americans in Paris class in the second-floor conference room 
of the Institute of Black Culture 
on West University Avenue.  The two- to three-credit-hour course will be offered in Paris, France during Spring Break 2016.  Please contact Austin at polssdw.ufl.edu for more infor-mation.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club holds bi-weekly lessons/dances every Monday and Friday. Free lessons are open to everyone. Monday nights are under the Reitz Union Breezeway, located at 655 Reitz Union Drive, with les-
sons from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. and 
social dancing from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Friday nights are at the Unified Training Center, located at 809 W. University Ave., with les-sons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. If you have any ques-
tions or would like to get in-
volved, find them on Facebook at Facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/.
5K Walk to Eliminate Health 
DisparitiesInterested in raising aware-ness about health disparities 
while exercising and having 
fun? UF’s Health Disparities Research and Intervention Program (Carolyn M. Tucker, director) and Suwannee River Area Health Education Center (Sarah Catalanotto, execu-tive director) are sponsoring a 5K walk titled “2015 Walk to 
Eliminate Health Disparities: 
Walking to Promote a Healthy Weight” on Saturday. There will be free prizes and healthy snacks. All are wel-come to register in advance at tx.ag/5KWalk free of charge.
UFIC and the Fulbright Lecture 
CommitteeUFIC and the Fulbright Lecture Committee invite you to “What I Need to Prepare If I Receive a Fulbright Award and Go Abroad.” This workshop will be present-ed by Karen Reed, a clinical assistant and professor of nurs-
ing. She serves as a volunteer mentor to nursing students in 
Cambodia and teaches their un-dergraduate nursing programs. 
Reed was a Fulbright Scholar 
in Cambodia for the 2013-2014 academic year. There, she taught as a visiting professor at the Kampot Regional Training Center in Kampot, Cambodia, and conducted professional development programs for Cambodian nursing faculty, 
nurses and nursing administra-
tors. This is event is free and open to the public, but registra-tion is encouraged by visiting eventbrite.com/e/us-scholar-fulbright-session-what-i-need-to-prepare-if-i-receive-a-ful-bright-award-and-go-abroad-tickets-18781904181.
For more information, please 
contact Charles Guy at clguy@ufl.edu.
Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets on Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, Room 1031, at 970 
Natural Area Drive. Everyone 
is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For de-tails about Talking Gators, go to  talkinggators.toastmas-tersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page.
Pride Student Union
Pride Awareness Month at UF is the largest student-led cel-ebration for the LGBTQ+ com-munity. This year, its theme is defiance. Join the organization as it de-fies the norm and make its sto-ries count. Visit facebook.com/prideawarenessmonth and ap-
ply today. Applications close 
Monday at 11:59 p.m.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 32
HIGH  84° LOW  64°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Michael Smith
  Mia Gettenberg
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloUF astronomer helps capture 
most comprehensive images of 
Milky Way
A UF astronomer helped release the most 
comprehensive images of the Milky Way to date.
Since 2010, an international research team 
has worked on developing partial images into a more comprehensive image, said Peter Barnes, a UF astronomer who is part 
of the research team.
The series of images gives information about the star-forming clouds in the Milky Way. There’s more material within these clouds than the team estimated, he said. 
There was two to three times more matter 
than they previously thought.The findings provide insight to the birth of the solar system and defines how to mea-
sure star-forming activity, Barnes said.
Getting the images was not easy, he said. It took the team about 1,450 hours of using a special telescope.The Mopra telescope helped make these 
image findings possible. It has a sensitive 
radio receiver attached to a large satellite dish, and it collects faint signals from deep space, unlike most other telescopes.
UF astronomy and physics alumnus Billy 
Schap said he was excited about the im-ages and what they mean for the field and future research. Schap is currently work-ing on an astronomy research project 
called CHaMP, or the Galactic Census of 
High and Medium-mass Protostars.“We only used to be able to see a dark fuzz that made up the Milky Way,” the 23-year-old said. “And now technology allows us 
to see developed images of it. This shows 
how far we have come and how advanced the field of astronomy has became.”Barnes said he thinks it’s cool that the im-
ages are both aesthetically and scientifi-
cally beautiful.“They tell us about our place in the uni-verse, they tell us about our origins, and the images themselves tell us a lot about 
scientific information,” he said.
- Courtney Grisby
UF professor finds invasive plant 
in ponds, canals
Crested floating heart rests prettily on 
pond waters, but a UF professor found the lily-pad-like plant can be harmful to the 
environment.
It’s a highly invasive species that blocks the surface of ponds and clogs canals, said Lyn Gettys, UF assistant professor of agronomy and aquatic plant specialist 
at UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences Fort Lauderdale Research and Education Center.She said the pest started as an aquarium decoration, but when people threw the 
plants away, they crept into canals and 
waterways.When it storms the plants can be a nui-sance, she said. People will move water in 
canals so it doesn’t overflow. 
But with the plants clogging the canals, it makes it difficult to move the water be-cause the plant clumps together like ba-nanas, which creates dense coverage that 
blocks light and limits oxygen to fish and 
other plants.“It’s bad for us, and it’s bad for critters that live underwater,” Gettys said.
The weed is banned in Florida unless peo-
ple have a permit. It asexually reproduces at a rapid rate.  The plant is very hard to kill once it gets in the waterways, Gettys said.  
There are only a few effective herbicides, 
she said. The best way to get rid of it is through early detection and rapid re-sponse. 
Gettys will present this technique to state 
water managers in the future.
- Taylor MaloneyWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Be a part of something big 
and give blood today. For more information, call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Susan Webster sworn in as next Student Senate President
IT’S ON PLAZA OF 
THE AMERICAS.
By Ebony Joseph
Alligator Contributing Writer
When UF psychology sopho-
more Sarai Almanza started col-
lege, she didn’t know she had a 
learning disorder.
The 19-year-old said she 
never struggled with test taking 
until her first pre-calculus exam. She was frozen, surrounded by hundreds of people shuffling around and tapping their pen-
cils.
Almanza said she learned 
she had math anxiety disorder. 
Now, she’s part of the Student Government and Disability Re-
source Center committee that 
planned today’s Accessibility Fair.  This year’s fair is the big-gest disability advocacy event 
SG has ever done, the event’s 
director Preeya Mody said.
The event will be held on the Plaza of the Americas from 
10 a.m. to 2 p.m. and coincides 
with Disability Employment Awareness Month, the 20-year-old statistics junior said. The fair dropped the word “disabil-
ity” from its title in favor of the 
more inclusive “accessibility,” she said.
Mody said the event will 
also be more interactive than in years past. Students can visit guide dogs while they listen to an a cappella performance by No Southern Accent.   
Almanza registered her learn-
ing disability with the DRC and can take extra time on her ex-ams. Today, she said she hopes 
to show students how the DRC 
can help them, too.
“I have a motto that I keep in 
mind: Everybody in this world has some sort of disability, 
something they struggle with,” 
she said. “Just because you have a disability doesn’t mean that you’re imperfect.”UF fair aims to end 
disability stigma
printer at the mechanical and aerospace 
engineering lab, he said. It took eight weeks to build.
The arms cost about $350 to make, 
Marin said. 
Most bionic arms produced by private 
companies sell for thousands of dollars, a 
price many parents can’t afford when most 
children need a new limb every year as the children grow.
The UF arm for the 7-year-old is one of 
12 that Limbitless is looking to make by 
Christmas, said Valderrama, a UCF graphic 
design senior. 
The other 11 are being constructed at 
UCF.
Limbitless tries to customize each arm 
to fit the child’s personality, Valderrama said. For example, the group made an Iron Man arm for another child, Alex Pring, who was 7 when he received it. 
Robert Downey Jr. gave Alex the arm.“Seeing the child receive the arm after 
such a long process of making it is incred-
ible,” she said.
The rest of the arms will be ready for 
Christmas, she said. They will be complet-
ed by late November or early December. 
The group hopes to video-record the reac-
tions of the children receiving their arms.
While Marin wouldn’t give any details 
on what the Naples boy’s arm will look like, he did say he and the team are going down to deliver it personally.
“I’m really looking forward to that,” he 
said.LIMB,  from pg1The limbs cost about $350 to makeBraddy emphasized it was a student-
initiated idea.
About a year ago, he said, the 
commission held its first joint meet-ing with Student Government to hear 
student interests and address the re-
lationship between the city and the university.
“It’s the university’s job to pro-
vide an education,” he said to the audience. 
In May, SG and the commission 
joined forces again on what Braddy called a walk-around. They rode in golf carts to pinpoint areas with prob-lematic lighting, he said.
Braddy said the upgraded street-
lights will have both direct and indi-
rect effects on the community.
“Directly, students will have a 
greater comfort moving around this 
part of town, like when they’re com-ing home from the library,” he said. “Indirectly, it will build confidence that city leaders listen to students’ problems and act on it.”
Mark Rottensteiner, special proj-
ects advocate for SG, said he hopes more students will show up for the next joint meeting in early Novem-ber.
“The city did this really fast, 
which is not easy to do,” he said. “They listened to us and got it done, and that doesn’t really happen at col-leges elsewhere.”
LIGHT,  from pg 1It cost $20,000 to install the lights
Courtesy to the Alligator
This bionic arm was created by UF engineering students using a 3-D printer at the me-
chanical and aerospace engineering lab. Santiago Marin, one of about 20 students on the team, said it had cost about $350 and taken eight weeks to build.“Seeing the child recieve the arm after 
such a long process of making it is 
incredible.”
Stephanie Valderrama
Campaign strategist for Limbitless Solutions By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
Editor’s note: As of press time, the second 
Senate meeting was still ongoing and the Sen-
ate Pro-Tempore had not officially been named. For full updates, go to www.alligator.org.
Cheers were heard and hugs were given 
throughout the Senate chambers as a new Sen-ate President was sworn in. 
Susan Webster (District A, Impact) was 
elected as Senate President.
UF’s Student Government held two consec-
utive meetings Tuesday night, one ending the last Senate term and one starting the new term with senators who were elected Sept. 30. 
Webster said she was qualified to be presi-
dent because of her experience on SG commit-tees and as a former majority party leader. 
“We need to be doing things for the Student 
Body and only for the Student Body,” she said.
Senator Preston Jones (Hume, Access) was 
also nominated for Senate President. Webster won with a vote of 61 - 28.
Sens. Jenny Clements (Impact, District A) 
and Nardin Derias (Access, Agriculture) were nominated for Senate Pro-Tempore
At the first meeting, senators gave goodbye 
speeches during public debate.
Erica Baker, UF supervisor of elections, gave 
her report on Fall elections. She said Fall elec-tions were the second largest UF has ever had. More than 10,000 students voted.
“We had a great turnout,” she said.During public debate, Brooke Azzaro, a resi-
dent from Infinity Hall, came to urge senators to put personal feelings aside when considering whether to override the Fall 2016 Reapportion-
ment bill, which would have Infinity Hall repre-
sented by a District A senator instead of giving Infinity Hall its own senator.
“I believe that the students in the future de-
serve direct representation,” Azzaro said.
Infinity representation was further dis-
cussed, as senators debated whether to sustain UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-Ra-sines’ veto on the bill. “I feel like the bill does not adequately ad-
dress the needs of the residents of Infinity Hall,” she said. 
The veto was sustained with a vote of 42-
29, which means the bill needs to be reviewed further.
Sen. Michael Christ (Graduate, Access) said 
that the Senate should sustain the veto.
“All we’re asking for is more time,” he said. 
“We don’t have to get it done until the end of the Fall.” 
Senate Majority Leader Charlie Brown Jr. 
asked senate to override the veto, saying Infin-ity would be better represented as part of Dis-trict A, where it would have 10 senators repre-senting it instead of one.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5 
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Mickey Vellukunnel, a 26-year-old UF computer science graduate student, breaks 
his fast with pita bread and hummus. He said the space was a good way for people of different religions to come together and “get a taste of the practice, ” which is an Islamic tradition that cleanses one’s body and spirit.
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Mohammad Arif, a 21-year-old UF biology senior, calls a crowd of about 500 to pray and break their fast at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center as the sun sets at 7:10 p.m. on Tuesday. Arif said people’s emotions had been tested during the fast, and his call signaled the moment they could “let it all loose. ”
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Contributing Writer
At 3:30 a.m., UF international studies 
freshman Katarina Negron stuck her fork 
into a stack of five buttermilk pancakes.
Although this wasn’t the 18-year-old’s 
first Suhoor, an Islamic meal before a fast, she said she enjoyed eating breakfast with a large group of students.
Early Tuesday morning, about 20 stu-
dents crammed together at IHOP and sa-vored their pre-fast meals. Later that day, the group would participate in Islam on Campus’s Fast-A-Thon, where attendees forgo food and drinks from sunrise to sun-
set.
When UF biomedical engineering fresh-
man Ammar Khan saw the Suhoor event 
page on Facebook, he said he knew he had to go.
Khan sat directly across from Negron, 
and the two bonded over their love for pancakes.
“Pancakes and I go way back,” Negron 
said. “When I was little, my mom used to make pancakes for me every weekend.”
Khan laughed.“That’s pretty much all you need,” he 
said.
Fast-A-Thon chairman Muhammad 
Mahgoub said he believes the event was a great way for people to meet.
“They can help motivate each other 
throughout the day because it’s tough at 
the first go if you’ve never fasted before,” 
the 24-year-old said.
At about 5 a.m., UF microbiology gradu-
ate student Ahmad Ahmad said he wasn’t 
tired.
“An event like this is a nice start to the 
day where you can find other people who are all doing the same thing,” he said.
At 6:30 p.m. in the Stephen C. O’Connell 
Center, a couple hundred people broke 
their fast at Fast-A-Thon just as they start-ed it that morning: together.
After listening to a Quran recitation and 
prayer, participants were finally able to eat 
rice and chicken at 8:15 p.m.
Negron ended up breaking her fast early 
with leftover pancakes.
“Usually, I have no problem fasting,” 
she said. “But when I got up, I was kind 
of hungry.”UF students start and end Islamic fast together
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
While last week’s Student 
Government elections had a high voter turnout with more than 
10,000 students voting, not all 
voices were heard.
Students in Innovation Acade-
my and UF’s Pathway to Campus 
Enrollment (PaCE) program find 
it difficult, and sometimes impos-sible, to vote in Fall elections. IA students can’t vote because they are not allowed to enroll in on-
campus classes during the Fall. 
However, these students are 
on campus for Spring and Sum-
mer.
UF started its PaCE program 
this past year, in which students take online classes for the first two years of their degree and then transfer to on-campus classes. 
Most of these students do not 
live on campus, but they are allowed to vote if they are in Gainesville. 
This means PaCE students 
who are not in Gainesville would have to travel to campus to vote, and these students can’t mail a write-in ballot.
Students must be enrolled in 
UF courses, whether online or in-person, to vote in a semester’s election, UF Supervisor of Elec-tions Erica Baker said.
“I know a lot of IA students 
that are here in Fall,” said Shelby Evans, a UF anthropology junior who is enrolled in the IA pro-gram.
The fact that these students 
can’t vote is an issue, she said.
“Their voices can’t be heard,” 
the 20-year-old said. “It’s unfair.”
Evans said she voted during 
last Spring’s election. 
She joined IA accidentally 
when she checked off the IA box on her application in 2013.
“I clicked the box because 
I kind of thought it was like an honors program,” she said.
John Lievonen, a PaCE jour-
nalism freshman, was able to 
vote in the Fall elections, but only 
because he lives in Gainesville.
“I knew that PaCE students that didn’t have access to the UF campus couldn’t vote,” the 18-year-old said. “I think it’s a little unfair because they are 
members of the University of 
Florida.”
Lievonen said offering stu-
dents online voting would help. Because most PaCE students 
don’t live in Gainesville, they 
may not know about SG.
“I’m sure they don’t get info 
about it,” he said.
PaCE students who don’t live 
in Gainesville are affected by SG, but to a lesser extent, he said.
“They should still have a 
vote,” he said. “They’re choos-ing their government for their school.”Voting poses barriers for IA, PaCE
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Writer
UF exploratory freshman Megan 
Lewis expects to be paying off stu-
dent loans well into her late 30s.
The 18-year-old said she’s wor-
ried about a pile of debt, but she 
doesn’t have any other choice.
According to a report the U.S. 
Department of Education released 
Thursday, Lewis isn’t alone in her worries; the federal loan system is inefficient and needs improvement.  
The report, which was devel-
oped alongside the Department of the Treasury and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, rec-ommends loan providers be more 
transparent with the loan process. 
According to the report, there should be safeguards in place to protect students from private com-panies that overcharge them.
The 20-page report also recom-
mends establishing a standard-
ized income-driven method to re-
pay loans. Their repayment plans would vary based on how high or low their incomes are.
About 18,000 UF students, or 
about 32 percent of the Student Body, took out loans during the 2014-2015 fiscal year, wrote Rich-ard Wilder, the UF director of stu-
dent financial affairs, in an email.
Wilder said UF students are re-
sponsible borrowers and typically 
pay their loans back at the right time.  
The Department of Education 
wrote that the loan system is the main fault in student-loan ineffi-ciency.  
Lewis expects to be borrowing 
money for the next seven to eight years as she attends medical school and said transparency is essential.
“It’s important so we know 
what we’re actually borrowing,” she said. “That way, we’re not caught off guard.”
Jeffrey Vadala, a UF anthropol-
ogy graduate student, first began to borrow money for college 15 years ago and has been deferring pay-ment ever since.
Now a 33-year-old, Vadala said 
he’ll probably still be paying back loans in 20 years.
He said he’s looking for a change 
in the way he can view his loans.
“I’m getting emails from my 
loan people, but I’m not sure if I can trust them,” Vadala said.Report recommends 
loan transparency It’s during Fall elections
“I knew that PaCE students 
that didn’t have access to 
the UF campus couldn’t 
vote. I think it’s a little 
unfair because they are 
members of the University 
of Florida.”
John Lievonen
PaCE journalism freshmanThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Late last night, outgoing Student Government Senate 
President Davis Bean gave his goodbye speech. Bean had the opportunity to speak at length about UF: what the university has taught him, what he’s gained from his time working for it and the wonderful Student 
Body he’s ostensibly worked to provide for would have all been suitable, substantive and daresay inspirational sub-jects. Instead, Bean delivered a speech that would have made Donald Trump blush. Flushed with self-congratulato-ry musings and utter contempt for anyone who dared dis-agree with him, Bean took his farewell speech, something normally seen as an opportunity for grace and class, and instead chose to run through his personal hit list, with the Alligator among his targets.
In his speech, Bean said that he had a problem with the 
Alligator due to a lack of fact checking. In a half-baked at-tempt at lending credence to a non-existent conspiracy, Bean claimed we colluded with a student who wrote a let-ter to the editor expressing frustration with the lack of SG representation for Inﬁ  nity Hall. Bean maintained that the student, who also spoke at the Senate, had to have written the letter prior to his appearance, and we printed the letter afterward to somehow shame SG. While we wish we could 
claim that we’re as nefarious as Bean proposes, it simply 
isn’t true.
We could go on and on about the myriad ways Bean 
shamed us last night, such as how we have printed typo-graphical errors or how we’re biased against Greek orga-nizations (despite having fraternity and sorority members alike in several of our sections). Instead, we’d like to take the opportunity to clarify a few things.
It is no secret that many think that the Alligator has a 
bias against SG: the contentious relationship between the two organizations stretches back for decades. With that said, any contentions are the lone result of one thing: the truth. As journalists, it is our obligation to report the facts, investigate the leads and call out any wrongdoing. If Bean was not comfortable with our coverage of SG, maybe he should have gone about his job differently. Furthermore, we have continuously made it a point to stress our open-door policy: Bean, why didn’t you reach out to us directly 
to express your concerns?
In his speech, Bean said that he has a pet peeve with bul-
lies. We feel comfortable in asserting if that were truly the 
case, he would not have insulted fellow Gators in a public forum that is meant to inform — not shame — the Student Body. 
Leaders, especially in SG, ought to embody ideals that 
inspire fellow students to be better. For a moment, we’d like to speak as fellow students rather than the editorial 
board; sewing divide and discord is not only unbecoming 
of our leaders, but is downright shameful. As these pages have read time and again, we say that being a Gator is the best because WE ARE the best. Because we are the best, there are certain behaviors that we shouldn’t stoop to, with unprofessionalism being chief among them.
In the meantime, we will continue to do our job the only 
way we know how: with passion, integrity and respectabil-ity. We hope in whatever endeavor he pursues, Bean will 
learn to do the same.SG, we do our 
jobs — now you 
do yours
Our gun culture is terroristic and growing
Last week, in response to the latest in a long 
series of mass shootings, various media outlets posted infographics that juxtaposed the number of Americans killed by guns with the number killed by terrorist acts.
While the essence of the graphics was impor-
tant, it still erred in creating a false dichotomy between the two entities — as if terrorists do not use guns and as if our culture of guns does not ultimately constitute forms of domestic and inter-national terrorism.
Government statistics estimate there is nearly 
one gun per person in the U.S., and they are in the hands of one-third of the population. This can be attributed to a 
material culture that proliferates weapons and an ideologi-
cal culture that gloriﬁ  es violence.
On the global scale, how is a country that so desires 
peace also responsible for three-quarters of the global arms market, having earned at least $66 billion in arms sales last year alone? Furthermore, when American arms shipped abroad end up in the hands of terrorists — or are directly gifted to autocratic regimes — how could it not entail ter-rorism?
Lest we forget, the function of any weapon is destruc-
tive, no matter how much a sadistic culture might elevate violence and its implements.
So, returning to our domestic sphere, what role do guns 
really play? We are reminded of the absurd un-reason given by the gun lobby and the various “law-abiding citizens” that privately owned guns simultaneously stave off the threat of some foreign dictatorship and keep our military, the most-equipped in human history, at bay.
But, past the imagination of those who cling fast to 
weapons, guns have one salient outcome in the U.S., and it is evidenced through our daily stream of violence.
Beyond the racist notion that the only terrorists in ex-
istence are Arabic/Islamist/bearded/dark-skinned rebels in some country “over there,” why aren’t people who shoot up theaters, schools, neighborhoods and churches also ter-rorists?The couple watching a movie, the child doing 
her homework, the people praying in church, all of them gunned down while just trying to live. Are they not victims of terrorism, as well?
The sobering realization is our culture of guns 
is terroristic and also very singular in the world. America’s rates of gun ownership far surpass even the most rogue states like Yemen and So-malia, and among other so-called “developed” countries, our preponderance of gun murders is exponentially in excess.
The factors that fetishize guns are diverse, but 
one cannot deny the extent to which the reliance on weap-ons is fueled by fear, delusion, insecurity and the narcissis-
tic notion that, while in possession of a gun, one is always 
the subject, not the object, and thus is invincible.
Sure, the advocates of guns and gun proliferation, and 
by extension those responsible for the violence to which we are all subjected, are wont to claim our violence stems from the lack of guns and presence of gun-free zones, and they are just as quick to assert that without guns the U.S. would be reduced to a dystopian nightmare of stabbings and brick attacks.
But why should advocates of a militarized U.S. even feel 
compelled to provide arguments for guns? The present state of our country, in which more than 30,000 people are mur-dered annually by guns, is the status quo they have estab-lished and is the only argument they need provide.
Disarmament is the ideal to which democratic, civil 
societies must aspire, though it can only be accomplished when we ﬁ  nd a means of addressing both the material and ideological roots of America’s violence. The ﬁ  rst and most 
crucial disarmament society must enact is one within the 
human spirit.
Until the day of disarmament, I have one parting thought 
for those who resort to violence and are not troubled by the ongoing assault on civil society: Live by the sword, die by the sword.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics mas-
ter’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
About two weeks ago, John 
Boehner held a press conference after Pope Francis addressed 
Congress. A practically cheer-
ful Boehner replaced the weep-
ing one from the previous day as he an-nounced his plan to leave Congress at the 
end of October. While many expected the 
speaker to be ousted by the Tea Party bloc of his party, no one could have foreseen Boehner leaving on such an abrupt note.
Both Democrats and Republicans celebrated 
Boehner’s leave, but for different reasons. The Democrats see this as a defeat of a political oppo-nent who has been blocking legislation, especially immigration reform, from being voted on in the 
House. But, to quote Bill Maher the week Boehner 
announced his resignation: “It always gets worse.” There is some truth in this statement, because the next speaker will almost certainly be more conserva-tive than Boehner could have ever dreamt of being.
The Republicans often say Boehner’s slow-to-act 
attitude has cost the Republicans too many defeats in Congress. He is not alone in this regard, with many now calling for the Senate Majority Leader 
Mitch McConnell to resign as well. What is often 
lost on freshmen and sophomore Tea Party candi-dates are the nuances of Congress: Even with a ma-jority, it is impossible to win every policy battle, let alone get everything you want from the victories. 
The newer, more conservative congressmen expect 
too much from the political system they work in.
Boehner’s premature leave goes deeper than par-
ty politics and perfectly exempliﬁ  es the ever-polar-
izing Congress and party system we live in. When 
Boehner ﬁ  rst entered Congress in the 1990s as one of the Gang of Seven, he was considered one of the most conservative congressmen of his time. Today, he is constantly attacked from a place that would 
have seemed impossible even a decade ago: his own caucus. His colleague Eric Cantor, a man 
who is by no means anything close to a Democrat, even lost re-election to a Tea 
Party candidate in 2014.
This deepening polarization is inher-
ently problematic for the U.S. government, 
which requires constant compromise in-
stead of simple majority rule. Congress 
is not meant to have a fast response to anything. It is, by its nature, a delibera-
tive body. And many who have been elected as Tea Party candidates do not seem to grasp the rules of 
compromise or good governance. In the past few 
years, the government has been shut down simply to make a point about Obamacare or the national debt. In the end, these government shutdowns do 
not gain any political beneﬁ  t and only serve to hurt 
the economy.
But this is who the proverbial keys to Congress 
are being handed to: a Republican caucus looking less like the party of Ronald Reagan every day. In-
stead, it is an almost entirely new party, one that 
ﬁ  nds committees on Planned Parenthood, Benghazi and Hillary Clinton’s emails more vital to the Ameri-can people than a crumbling infrastructure, glaring 
economic inequality or social injustices.
Although the new speaker will probably be dif-
ﬁ  cult to negotiate with, Boehner’s resignation last 
month presents a possibility for political change. Since his announcement, Boehner has been fear-
less in confronting the radicalization of his party. 
If Boehner is unafraid of the consequences, he can exploit his speakership to stop the gridlock within Congress. He could rally enough moderates in the 
Republican Party along with Democrats to pass leg-
islation. It would be a ﬁ  tful conclusion for the last member of the Gang of Seven as he walks out the door.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science senior. His 
column usually appears on Thursdays.John Boehner’s resignation presents troubleColumn
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.org On Monday, I participat-ed in a research study. This was not your aver-
age, answer-these-three-
questions-please-to-
save-my-grade type of survey you see plastered all over Facebook.
This survey was legit. I went 
in a room, sat down in a comfy chair and answered questions — in person — for an hour or so.
I went in expecting it 
to be a bit boring and mostly computer-gen-erated, but I couldn’t have been more wrong. 
The whole thing was 
actually really fun and more than a little eye-opening. 
I got to talk at length, 
with no interruptions or judgement, about something I never realized I was passionate about before that day.
That something is #socialme-
dia.
Before you sigh, call me an ex-
tremely basic 20-something-year-old girl and move on, just hear 
me out.
I’ve always known I like social 
media. I’m a public relations ma-
jor, and it kind of comes with the 
(multiple) job descriptions. 
I have a Twitter, a Facebook 
and a Wordpress blog. I hit up 
Snapchat on the regular, adore my Instagram despite my meager 
followings and spazz daily about 
things I see on Pinterest. I spend long hours procrastinating on Tumblr. 
I’ve done it all.But nearly all of these plat-
forms were things I started play-ing with mostly because every-one else around me was also 
playing with them, and I think 
that is kind of the norm with so-cial media.
This semester, I’ve really 
thrown myself into the occasion-ally shallow — though always shiny — world of online self-pro-motion; I’m taking a social media management class. 
Don’t laugh.The class has already taught 
me a lot, not the least of which was that this stuff is actually kind 
of hard. 
At least, it’s hard if you want 
to actually engage with people, 
not just complain about #first-worldproblems. 
You don’t get Twitter famous 
overnight, and those “influenc-ers” who have two million-plus followers on Instagram are prob-
ably using a lot of the skill sets 
my social media management class is learning now.
Adults like to sigh at the mul-
titude of different social media 
platforms that are out there for 
kids to play with now, but there is a reason there are more than one billion people on Facebook now and nearly 316 million on 
Twitter, and it’s not that we like 
to take selfies.
It’s that social media is one of 
the biggest and most influential 
steps in human communication 
to come around in ages.
Social media means a more 
interconnected world, a smaller 
world. 
We learn more about 
each other, we see more and we discuss more. Things happen because 
of social media. 
These things can be 
as small as a business 
connecting a little more personally with its cus-
tomers and as big as 
raising money for those facing 
unspeakable hardships, such as the funds that have come from 
the hearts of people who follow 
Humans of New York on Face-book.
The survey I took wasn’t re-
ally the start of me realizing I re-
ally like this kind of thing, but it 
was the tipping point. 
However stereotypical it might 
be as a PR girl to get really into 
hashtagging, I need to believe 
that social media is kind of a big deal. 
It will outlast the criticism it 
gets from the long-suffering par-
ents who just want their kids to 
get off the phone. In most cases, it already has.
Social media is fun, and like 
most things that are fun, it’s also a tool. 
It's a tool for communication 
and self-expression, a way to build an identity. 
If there is one thing we’ve al-
ways liked to do, it’s re-create ourselves.
Hashtagging, tweeting and 
snapchatting are all ways of tap-ping into the undercurrents of conversation that lie underneath most things we like to talk about, whether it’s social commentary, 
political involvement or imagina-
tion.
For having such a technologi-
cally based existence, social me-
dia is a pretty darn human cre-
ation.
TL;DR: Social media is pretty 
great and does more than we know for helping to curate hu-
man existence as we currently 
know it. 
Next time you’re kicking 
around on Twitter, think about 
that. 
Sally Grieder is a UF English 
and public relations junior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.Social media is pretty awesome, 
helps curate human existenceColumn
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015
By Deshlee Ford
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two UF students dressed in 
banana and grape costumes gave 
passersby colorful balloons.
With the balloons, students 
made their own stress balls by fill-ing them up with flour on the Plaza of the Americas as part of activities 
for Get Fruved’s stress-manage-
ment week. 
The group taught students how 
to de-stress at their “Stress-Ball-Making and Dog-Walk-Taking” event Tuesday afternoon.
Get Fruved stands for “get your 
fruits and vegetables.” The re-search project aims to improve stu-
dents’ diets, increase their physical 
activity and educate them on how to manage stress, said Christina Bracey, a member of the group’s 
social marketing intervention team. 
The movement especially focuses on freshmen.
“We try to make things fun and 
enjoyable for the freshmen,” she 
said.
At the event, Leeashaa Ra-moutar, who is also part of the 
intervention team, encouraged stu-dents to grab balloons and make stress balls. She said the UF chapter 
of Get Fruved will teach students 
each week how to live a healthy life.
“We’re trying to implement 
healthier living in mainly freshmen, but also everyone on campus,” the 21-year-old said. “It’s so important because even something as small as time and stress management, like 
this, can go a far way in terms of af-
fecting your diet and how you sleep and how you live.”
One of the most popular activi-
ties at the event was playing with UPD dogs, which can serve as a stress reliever, Sgt. Ellen Duffy said.
“I know a lot of students we 
meet miss their dogs they leave at home.” she said. “Getting the chance to pet a dog and interact with a dog is relaxing and comfort-
ing.”
The dogs, two Labrador retriev-
ers and a German Shepherd, were 
trained for explosive detection. But Tuesday, they licked students who 
kneeled in the grass to play with 
them.
Three freshmen friends from Fort Myers attended the event to-
gether.
UF exploratory student Josey 
Mayer said she has a Doberman 
puppy at home and liked play-ing with the dogs. She smiled and 
squatted down to pet Rocky, a 
6-year-old German shepherd.
“I think dogs are the best way to 
de-stress,” the 18-year-old said.
Her friend, UF criminology and 
law student Katherine Strange, who has a German shepherd mix back home, also said she was happy to meet Rocky.
“You know when your dog runs 
to the door excited to greet you?” Strange, 18, said. “I miss that.”
Students de-stress at UF ‘fruvement’ event
LEFT:
Leeashaa Ramoutar hugs Boom-
er, a 2 1/2-year-old black Labra-dor retriever and UPD explosive-detection K-9 on Tuesday. Officer Dale Holmes brought Boomer to Get Fruved’s stress-management event on the Plaza of the Ameri-cas.
BOTTOM LEFT:
In costume as a bunch of grapes, UF criminology and law junior and member of Get Fruved’s Grape T eam Sam Robinson, 20, fills a balloon with flour to make a stress ball. The event invited stu-dents to make the balls and play with dogs on Tuesday afternoon to encourage healthy stress man-agement.
BOTTOM MIDDLE:
Isabel Carrizales, a 21-year-old UF dietetics junior, starts to write “You can do it!” on a handmade stress ball on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday. 
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Students make stress balls out of balloons and flour on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday. About 75 people stopped to participate in Get Fruved’s stress-manage-ment activities.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffThey made stress balls, played with dogs
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
KNITTING IT ON 
Michaela Giampaolo, a 21-year-old UF English and 
East Asian languages and literatures senior, makes a scarf during a Knitting Gators meeting in the Physics Building on Tuesday. She said the pattern is based on her favorite manga, “One Piece. ”
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
In the wake of National Mental Health Awareness 
Week and a new fiscal budget year, experts in the field 
and county officials are looking to further address men-tal-health issues.
UF psychiatry professor Rajiv Tandon spoke to coun-
ty commissioners during a special County Commission meeting Tuesday afternoon about mental health prob-lems facing Alachua County and the need for a plan to address those issues.
“In terms of our county, we have a number of re-
ally good resources,” Tandon said. But a comprehen-sive, long-term plan is needed to further tackle issues, 
he added.
With the 2016 fiscal year budget, commissioners set 
$150,000 aside for mental-health needs separate from funds already directed toward mental health services. 
Discussion during Tuesday’s meeting focused on how and where to spend the money.
The amount isn’t enough for the comprehensive 
plan proposed by Tandon, “but it’s better than zero,” Commissioner Ken Cornell said.
“In the current budget year, what we have to decide 
is how are we going to allocate that ($150,000), and more than likely it should go towards planning for a comprehensive plan or taking some small cases to prove out some techniques that may work on a larger scale,” Cornell said.
Tandon said the Alachua County mental-health co-
alition would likely be tasked with developing a plan that includes education about mental health and im-provement of mental health care providers and services.
County commissioners recently approved $465,000 
to meet the mental-health needs of the working poor in Alachua County, Cornell said.County addresses mental health
By Ashley Martin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jonathan Freedman wore a Batman shirt to 
moderate trivia.
“What is the typical number of pups a fe-
male bat has in a year?” he asked.
The teams — including Team “Batalicious” 
and “The Salty Bats” — frantically scribbled their answers on pieces of paper.
It was part of Bat Trivia at First Magnitude 
Brewing Company on Tuesday night, an event hosted by Brainaholics Trivia and the Lubee Bat Conservancy.
The Bat Trivia event was implemented to 
educate the Gainesville community about bats and raise funds for the conservancy’s breed-ing programs, research, education and the 11th Annual Florida Bat Festival, which will take place Oct. 24.
With more than 50 people in attendance, 
each team was made up of two to 10 partici-pants. All six rounds, consisting of 10 ques-tions each, had something to do with bats 
nested within the theme of geography, sports, 
art, literature, pop culture and general knowl-edge. The top three finishers received First Magnitude gift certificates, and additional priz-
es were awarded courtesy of the conservancy.
Lubee staff sold merchandise and collected 
more than $100 in donations during the night.
“I love bats,” said Gavin Wright, 34, who 
competed with the Salty Bats.  First Magnitude co-founder Christine Den-
ny, who is also an environmental scientist and often works with bat biologists, said she was 
excited to partner with the conservancy.
“Since we’re all about Florida and the natu-
ral environment, Lubee is a nice connection with us,” Denny said. 
Brian Pope, the director of the conservancy 
for four and a half years, said he knows how much bats contribute to the economy.
“(Trivia is) an opportunity for us to talk 
about our festival, to talk about bats, to talk about our mission,” he said. Locals gather to test bat trivia, raise money for conservationLOCALBy Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a lo-
cal man Tuesday morning after he reportedly called for support against two imaginary robbers.
At about 3:05 a.m. Tuesday, 
Joshua D. Porter, 29, reportedly told a dispatcher he woke up and saw two men near his bedroom, ac-cording to a police report.
Porter said he chased them from 
his home as they pointed a gun at him and then escaped in a getaway car with his PlayStation 3, accord-ing to the report.
“I have no idea how these peo-
ple got into my apartment,” Porter said Tuesday evening.
He reportedly waited 45 min-
utes to call police. Officers arrived, parked at a distance and walked to-
ward the house without using their lights, ac-
cording to the 
report.
The officers 
reported watch-ing Porter open the trunk of his car and stow a 
black box before walking back to the house.
When the officers and Porter 
met, he directed their attention toward tire marks from the sup-posed getaway car while closing his trunk, according to the report. Por-ter agreed to open the trunk after a request from the officers, who dis-covered the black box was Porter’s PS3, according to the report.
Porter later told police the PS3 
wasn’t stolen, according to the re-
port. However, Porter said two men 
— one with a rifle — did rob him, and police didn’t thoroughly inves-tigate.
“I told the cops that I was 
robbed, and they decided to say that it was a false police report and arrest me,” he said.
Police charged Porter with mak-
ing a false report and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he  was released Tuesday afternoon on his own recognizance.
Man arrested for fake robbery
Porter
THE WALK WILL BE 
ON THURSDAY.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Writer
UF biology freshman Kendall Cantrell won’t 
go back to Midtown. The last time she was there, the 18-year-old was groped by multiple men at Grog House Bar and Grill.
“We were all freshmen, so we didn’t know 
what we were getting into,” she said. “I was grabbed multiple times.”
On Thursday, Cantrell will march with He-ForShe UF to show support for sexual assault 
victims. At 11:30 a.m. Thursday, the group 
will march from the Plaza of Americas to Tur-lington Plaza carrying signs and chanting, said Whitney Hall, secretary of HeForShe UF.
“Mainly we hope to raise awareness about 
rape culture and show our solidarity with vic-tims,” the 19-year-old UF biology sophomore said.
HeForShe was created by the United Na-
tions Women last year. The international or-ganization encourages men to support gender equality and women’s rights, according to its website. It has gained support from Emma Watson, Harry Styles and President Barack Obama.
Hall said the UF “Dress Does Not Mean 
Yes” walk was held for the first time last Spring, and about 20 people attended. But for Thursday’s march, she said about 260 people RSVP’d through Facebook, and she expects a bigger turnout this term.
President and founder of HeForShe UF Lil-
lian Rozsa said men should be involved in the conversation of women’s rights.
“I truly believe if we’re going to achieve 
gender equality, it’s going to take every gender talking about it,” the 19-year-old said.
Rozsa said people shouldn’t become desen-
sitized to supposedly less-severe forms of sex-ual harassment and assault, like catcalling and 
groping. She sees sexual assault as a pyramid, 
where seemingly minor discriminatory actions lead up to serious attacks on women.
“If one of the levels of the pyramid goes un-
checked, the rest of the levels run rampant,” the UF political science and women’s studies sophomore said.
But UF mechanical engineering senior Car-
oline Young said she doesn’t think a one-day 
event can erase a centuries-old problem.
“I think, in the end, all it’s gonna do is get 
people to talk about it for a little while, but I 
think it’s gonna take a lot more than a march to change anything,” the 22-year-old said.
UF students to march for gender equality, HeForShe campaign
“(Trivia is) an opportunity for us to 
talk about our festival, to talk about 
bats, to talk about our mission.”
Brian Pope
conservancy directorWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,
Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
1 bed available in 2/1 w/ mature female stu-dent. $425.00 monthly including utilities and high-speed internet. 2 miles from UF. (352) 631-0737    10-16-15-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
10-30-15-49-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available immediately! $2000/mo. Rent & terms negotiable. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    10-13-15-20-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
● ● HOUSE FOR RENT ● ●
2927 SW 1st Ave. Across from UF Golf Course   4-5BR/3BA, W/D,DW, cent AC/heat Only $1,775/mo No application fee, all pets ok. 352-258-0025       10-7-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY!1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   10-12-15-20-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished 4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
Designated drivers are the greatest
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       10-30-15-49-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
PETITION CIRCULATORS NEEDED
Up to $20-30 per hour or moreNo experience necessary Start today(386) 233-9939    10-8-15-14-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 ACROSS
1 Great Salt Lake
component, to a
chemist
5 Moved for a
better view, in a
way
10 Lucy’s partner
14 Fairy tale villain15 Yoga position
16 Pair in a loaf
17 Sleeping in the
great outdoors,e.g.
19 Big East or Big
South org.
20 Generation
21 Org.
recommending
flossing
22 Like many stunts
23 Making sense28 In the past
29 Start of a spelling
rule broken by
deists?
33 Flooded
36 Bring __ a
substitute
37 Co-star of Burt in
“The Killers”
38 Fair odds
42 Prefix with 
fold
43 “I get the idea!”
44 Skeptical45 Guard48 Korean
automaker
49 Airport agent’s
request
54 Adolescent
sidekick
57 Indifferent
response
58 “I did not need to
know that”
59 Letter-shaped
building part
60 Hockey
punishment for
the starts of thelongest acrossanswers
64 Narrated
65 “State of 
Affairs” star
Katherine
66 Clanton foe
67 Jazz finale?68 Schmoes69 Leaf supportDOWN
1 Ravi’s musical
daughter
2 Disco era suffix
3 Mean4 Wing alternative
5 Flatly denied it
6 Hit __:
experiencedelays
7 Put out on the
infield
8 One at the front?9 Butter serving
10 “Meet the
Parents” actor
11 Contents of some
envs.
12 Neb. neighbor13 “Do as __ ...”18 __-Ashbury: San
Francisco section
22 Court official24 Smidgen of spice25 Take the top
medal
26 By surprise27 New Age
musician John
30 Compete in a
heat
31 At any time32 “Nothing to it!”33 Siesta hrs.34 Charging cable,
e.g.
35 Not fer
36 Graphic novel
artist
39 Isle of Mull
neighbor
40 Land41 Tide type46 Classic Fords47 Accelerator particle48 Mournful tolls50 Physical likeness51 Chance to swing52 Three-ingredient
treat
53 Common dinner
hr.
54 Nabisco cracker55 Concert reed56 About 500
pounds of cotton
60 Scholar’s deg.61 Want-ad abbr.62 Quick drink63 Aye or hai
By Howard Barkin
©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/07/1510/07/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, October 7, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015
CITT Web Services captioning has an 
OPS part-time position for typist to assist with transcribing video recorded lectures. Knowledge of ADA standards a plus.  Must be an excellent listener and able to type 40 correct words per minute. 15-20 hours/week  8.05/hr . Send resume to Kim Standifer standik@ufl.edu   10-13-15-10-14
Live & work in Atlanta, rent free!
FT Nanny & Personal Assistant needed for Gator grad couple w/ 2 young boys. Good salary + free rent. Email geoff@352inc.com 
to apply.   10-7-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Italian & Spanish Tutoring
Call 786-395-3262
$8/Hr Students                         10-9-3-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found sec-tion. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
1. THEATER: Which musical fea-
tured a song with the lyrics, “I feel 
pretty, oh so pretty”?
2. MEDICAL: In human beings, 
what causes a goiter?
3. GEOGRAPHY: In what city 
would you find the Brandenburg Gate?
4. MUSIC: Which Southern rock 
band had a hit single with “Imaginary Lover”?
5. MOVIES: In which movie did 
longtime game host Bob Barker make 
his debut?
6. SCIENCE: What does an ornithol-
ogist study?
7. COMPUTERS: What kind of 
computer file carries the extension 
“.wav”? 
8. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is 
the adjective used to describe horses?
9. LANGUAGE: What is a pan-
gram?
10. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: Who 
once said, “Outside of a dog, a book is man’s best friend. Inside of a dog, it’s too dark to read”?
Answers
1. “West Side Story”2. Usually a lack of iodine3. Berlin4. Atlanta Rhythm Section5. “Happy Gilmore” with Adam San-
dler
6. Birds7. Audio8. Equine9. A sentence that uses every letter of 
the alphabet. 
10. Groucho Marx
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 5, 2015 King Features Weekly Service
20 Event Notices 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsThe Florida men's golf team finished in second place on Tuesday at the Jerry Pate National, while the women's team struggled. Read the story on pg. 14. By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
At first glance, Antonio Mor-
rison’s success this season isn’t that surprising.
Through five games, the senior 
linebacker has a team-leading 40 tackles, good for ninth in the Southeastern Conference, along with 6.5 tackles for loss.
If you compare those numbers 
with his junior season, in which he recorded 101 tackles and six 
tackles for loss, he’s right on pace. 
Maybe even a little ahead of 
schedule.
But that would only paint part 
of the picture.
The impressive thing about 
Morrison’s 2015 season is what 
he had to overcome just to have a senior year.
“There’s the story of this foot-
ball team,” Florida coach Jim 
McElwain said. 
“Man, my hat’s off to that guy 
for what he did giving up himself 
for this team to be good.”
It started in the Birmingham 
Bowl on Jan. 3, a game which threw Morrison’s football future in doubt.
That was when the senior blew 
out his left knee, an injury so ex-cruciating that ESPN’s television cameras were able to pick up his screams echoing throughout Le-gion Field.
He was carted off the field 
that day with serious doubts if he would ever play again, much less if he could return before the season-opener. 
And if he was able to return, 
there was no guarantee that he would be the same player that was carted off in Birmingham.
But he was able to do both.“I wouldn’t say I’m surprised. 
I knew what he was going to do,” defensive back Brian Poole said. 
“It’s impressive, but that’s An-
tonio. That’s what he’s been do-
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida announces Athletic Hall of Fame 2016 class
The University of Florida announced on Tuesday the Spring 2016 class 
for the UF Ahtletic Hall of Fame. The eight-member class, which includes Olympic medalists Ryan Lochte, Greg Burgess and Kerron Clement, will be honored in the spring at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Antonio Morrison pumps up the crowd during Florida's 38-10 win 
over Ole Miss on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. UF linebacker continues to impress
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
 
By the end of Florida’s Gators Madness 
event on Friday, there were only two cham-
pions left standing.
One was Brandone Francis-Ramirez, the 
redshirt freshman who beat out former UF 
greats Jason Williams and Lee Humphrey in a three-point shooting contest. 
The other was freshman Kevarrius Hayes, 
whose behind-the-back slam elevated him past sophomores Chris Chiozza and Devin Robinson in the dunk contest.
In short, on a night reserved for fun and 
games to rejuvenate a disappointed fan-base, the youngest Gators carried the load. 
And they might have to this season.Nine of UF’s 16 players are underclass-men, and only two seniors will likely receive significant playing time this year: forwards 
Alex Murphy and Dorian Finney-Smith.
However, Chiozza and Robinson are both 
coming off freshman campaigns in which they averaged more than 19 minutes, and with the return of redshirt junior DeVon Walker from 
a torn ACL, the Gators may have more of a 
veteran voice than they did last season.
“Last year I didn’t know what to expect, 
but as a sophomore, now I know how the 
game is, how the speed is, how everything 
operates,” Robinson said. 
“I should go in and pretty much, not know 
what I’m doing, but have an idea of what it 
takes to be successful.”
Florida’s lack of leadership was evident 
last year, and reared its head in one important Florida men's basketball seeks leadership from youth CROSS COUNTRY
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
For most first-year student ath-
letes, being new means starting at the bottom.
Few see the field, fewer contrib-
ute in a meaningful way and fewer still are considered leaders of the team.
It can sometimes take years to 
make it into the starting rotation — if it even happens at all. 
And as for leadership, seniority 
is more often than not a major de-
termining factor. 
For Charles Chambers, who’s in 
his first year running cross country 
for UF, starting at the bottom isn’t 
really an option. 
Unlike most first-year runners, 
he doesn’t have the luxury of look-ing towards next year or saying 
things like “down the road.”
He’s got one season to accom-
plish his goals as a Gator, and he’s hoping to make every moment 
— both on and off the terrain — 
count.
•   •   •
While graduate transfers aren’t 
anything new to collegiate athlet-ics, Chambers transferred from 
nearly 10,000 miles away, coming 
to Gainesville from his native Gold Coast, Australia. 
Back in Australia, Chambers was one of the best runners in the 
country while running in the conti-
nent’s club circuit. 
But while he’s certainly an ac-
complished athlete, Chambers knew that coming to the U.S. 
meant that he’d face a whole new 
level of competition. 
“It’s a totally new field, really. 
I mean, I was 
sorta top eight, 
top 10 in the country and here I’m third, fourth, fifth on 
the team,” he said.
Andrew Fer-
ris, who coached Chambers for six 
years leading up to his coming to 
the U.S., said that for Charles, just being part of the team is more im-portant than individual accolades. 
“While he wants to do well 
himself, he wants to see everybody else that he’s involved with do re-
ally well as well,” Ferris said.
“He probably cares more about 
what the team does than what he 
does himself.”
Chambers indirectly echoed 
that sentiment when asked about his goals for the season. 
He never spoke a word about 
what he hoped to accomplish, 
choosing instead to focus on what 
the team is shooting for — suc-ceeding in the Southeastern Con-Australian transfer 
motivated in lone 
season with Gators
Nine of 16 are underclassmen SEE XC, PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
“Last year I didn’t know what to expect, 
but as a sophomore, now I know how 
the game is, how the speed is, how 
everything operates.”
Devin Robinson 
UF basketball player
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15Chambers
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
When asked what his team needed to im-
prove on last week, men’s golf coach JC Dea-
con said, “It’s going to sound crazy … but it’s nothing.
“We’re a great team. I truly believe that in 
my heart. And I know the results are going to come.”
He was right. Four of five UF golfers placed in the top 
ten at the Jerry Pate National at the par-70 Old Overton Club in Birmingham, Alabama.
Freshman Sam Horsfield led the way for the 
Gators, tying for fourth and finishing the tour-nament at 5-under par.
The tournament marks his second top five 
finish in just his third competition as a Gator.  
Freshmen Kyler Tate and Jorge Garcia, 
along with sophomore Alejandro Tosti, all tied for sixth place at 2-under. 
Garcia, who Deacon had previously singled 
out for letting frustration get the best of him, shot a 5-over 75 in round one, but bounced back to post the Gators’ best individual round 
of the weekend, shooting a 6-under 64 in the 
second round. 
“A week ago, I was probably harder on 
Jorge than I’ve been on about any player in my coaching career,” Deacon said in a release.
“All of his focus was on having a good at-
titude and being determined, and then he goes and shoots 64.
“We’re really going to be able to win with 
people like him,” Deacon said of Garcia. 
Junior Ryan Orr finished right behind the other Gators.
Despite heading into the final day tied for 
29th, Orr shot a 3-under 67 on Tuesday, mov-ing up 13 spots and tying for 16th place at 1-over.
As a team, UF finished in second place, be-
hind only tournament-host Alabama. Florida finished ahead of rivals No. 3 Auburn and No. 5 Florida State, which took third and fourth place, respectively. “Today was our best day of the year, for 
sure,” Deacon said. 
“We had all five guys on the same page 
— playing hard, staying patient and staying focused — and that was what enabled us to finish the round off. 
“There was a lot of pressure and a lot of 
hard holes down the stretch, and these guys all kept their emotions in check and played well to finish second in a very strong field.”While the men’s team was in Alabama, 
coach Emily Glaser and the women’s golf team 
traveled to Chicago, Illinois, to play in the 
Windy City Collegiate Championships. 
Sophomore Taylor Tomlinson had No. 18 
Florida’s best individual finish, tying for 19th place at 1-under at the par-72 Westmoreland Country Club. 
“It wasn’t anything special this week,” 
Tomlinson said in a release.  
“I felt I had some good moments and some 
bad ones, but my putting was solid and I make what I had work. I think the team as a whole did well grinding it out today.”
Junior Karolina Vlckova tied for 39th at 
3-over, followed by freshman Sam Wagner and junior Kelly Grassel, who both tied for 41st at 4-over. 
Overall, the Gators finished in eighth place 
out of 15 teams. Tournament-host No. 6 North-
western, No. 3 Arizona and No. 5 Georgia tied 
for first place to become three-way champions. 
“We played solid today,” Glaser said in a 
release. 
“I think each player had a few miscues that 
kept us from having a great round, but that’s golf.”
Despite finishing below expectations, Gla-
ser is happy to see what this tournament does 
for the team moving forward. 
“It was a great experience to get a look at 
some bent grass greens, something we will see 
later in the year and need to be prepared for,” Glaser said.
“We also made some nice adjustments 
since the Knoxville tournament, but we’re heading home knowing there is more work to do.”14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015
Alligator File Photo
UF golfer Alejandro T osti putts during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational on 
Feb. 14 at the Mark Bostic Golf Course.
Alligator File Photo
UF’s Brianna Morgan hits a two-handed backhand during Florida’s 4-0 win against Elon on Jan. 24 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
UF GOLF
Men take 2nd at Jerry Pate; women struggle in Chicago
By Madison Belfour
Alligator Writer
@madisonbel4
 
Progress over perfection.
That is what coach Roland 
Thornqvist is hoping to see from the Florida women’s tennis team. 
With the Gators having four 
players make it to the qualify-
ing round of the Riviera/ITA 
All-American Championships in Tulsa, Oklahoma, on Tuesday, Thornqvist should be satisfied with his team’s progression in the 
early season. 
To get to the qualifying round, 
the Gators had to first compete in 
the pre-qualifying rounds. 
Senior Brianna Morgan and 
sophomore Anna Danilina fared well against Texas Tech’s Lynn Kiro and Sarah Dvorak, defeating them 8-7(1).
Morgan and Danilina continued 
their strong play, advancing to the second round of the tournament and defeating the No. 7-seeded 
pair of Lucia Butkovska and Maja 
Mladenovic, 8-2. 
In their final match of the pre-
qualifying rounds, Morgan and Danilina handed Pepperdine’s 
Laura Gulbe and Dzina Milova-
novic an 8-2 loss.
Danilina would be the only Gator to play singles in the pre-
qualifying rounds. 
She lost in the first round to 
No. 125-ranked Lauren Chypyha 
in a three-set match, 6-2, 2-6, 6-1.
Juniors Kourtney Keegan and 
Belinda Woolcock, along with Morgan and the doubles pair of Danilina and Morgan, would com-pete in the qualifying rounds of 
the tournament on Tuesday.
The men’s tennis team also 
clinched qualifying spots in the 
Saint Francis Health Care System 
ITA All-American Championships.
Senior Gordon Watson, junior 
Elliott Orkin, sophomore Chase 
Perez-Blanco and freshman Alfre-do Perez all advanced to the sec-
ond round of the qualifying draw.
“It’s still early in the season,” 
coach Bryan Shelton said in a re-
lease, “but I like the way the guys are going about their business out there,”
Perez-Blanco pulled out a 
straight set win against Denver’s Alex Gasson, going 6-3, 6-3. 
Perez-Blanco was named to 
the Southeastern Conference All-Freshman Team and is a two-time SEC Freshman of the Week recipi-ent.
Orkin, who is ranked No. 86, 
came back to win a three set match, 6-3, 6-7(3), 7-6(5), against Alabama’s Mazen Osama. 
Orkin and junior Maxx Lipman 
earned automatic berths into the doubles main draw.
Success at this tournament will 
be more meaningful than just a win on the schedule. 
The Gators rely on events like 
the Riviera/ITA All-American Championships to prepare Florida 
for the spring season, where com-
petition begins against other uni-versities. 
The qualifying rounds also give 
the team’s players a chance to measure their improvements from 
last season. 
Singles quarterfinalists, dou-
bles finalists and consolation 
champions will receive an auto-matic entry into the USTA/ITA 
National Indoor Intercollegiate 
Championships on Nov. 12-15 in Flushing Meadows, New York. 
Shelton said his team has 
shown continued improvement, but that practices will reveal areas that need improvement. 
“We aren’t executing perfectly 
but we’re moving in the right di-
rection,” Shelton said.UF tennis snags qualifying spots
“It’s still early in the season, 
but I like the way the guys are 
going about their business out 
there.”
Bryan Shelton
UF men’s tennis coachEight Gators clinchedWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF forward Devin Robinson dribbles the ball up the court during Florida's 72-47 win over 
Mississippi State on Jan. 10 in the O'Connell Center. 
statistic. 
In games where the final score was decided by single 
digits, the Gators were a mediocre 8-11.
And while much of that may have been due to an 
absence of veteran players to fight for wins at the end 
of games, a lot of it had to do with free throw shooting.
Florida shot 63.5 percent from the free throw line 
last year, 328th worst in the nation.
Mike White hasn’t shied away from that subject in 
team meetings.
“He’s always honest with you,” guard Lexx Edwards 
said of White. 
“He’s always observant of every player, every aspect 
of the game. He’s always trying to critique something.”
White’s honesty has manifested into a pre-emptive 
practice strategy. 
On the days when Florida works on its conditioning, 
the coach has added a caveat: Each player must make three out of four free throws. 
If a player misses more than one, the whole team 
has to run again.
Not only does White hope this will improve the 
team’s free throw shooting, but it also mimics a game-like pressure situation that is usually difficult to repli-cate in practice.
“Last year, we saw how easy it is to lose a game by 
one point or two points,” Francis-Ramirez said. 
“But we also saw how hard it is to lose games like 
that.”
If the Gators can turn their 8-11 clip in close games 
into a winning record by simply converting more of 
their free throws, many players believe an NCAA Tour-
nament berth is within reach.
“You just have to have that mentality just to kill your 
(opponent). You’ve got your foot on his neck, just crack 
his neck right there. Get the job done,” Robinson said. 
“Don’t let them back in the game and toy around 
with them. Keep going and keep being aggressive and 
you are going to get the win.”BASKETBALL,  from pg15UF hit 63.5 percent of its free throws
ference. 
“The big goal for us is win 
SECs and basically get ourselves to 
NCAAs,” he said. 
And while adjusting to the new 
level of competition in the NCAA 
and in the SEC was certainly some-
thing that Chambers was prepared 
to do, he had other challenges on the horizon. 
“In addition to moving all the 
way across the world, I guess it’s 
also the first time I’m living out of 
home,” Chambers said. 
“So (that means) dealing with 
my own cooking and cleaning and 
just little things that I probably to-
tally overlooked.”
In addition to the adjustments 
that everyone faces when they first leave home, he also pointed to one 
that perhaps isn’t as expected. 
“The other thing is probably 
just not having to repeat myself a 
thousand times,” he said. 
“I find with a lot of people on 
the team, they don’t always un-derstand what I’m saying. It’s fun though.”
UF cross country coach Paul 
Spangler was quick to jump on a question about some of the Austra-lian words or phrases that Cham-bers uses.
“Niggles” he said with a grin. 
“That’s a good one.”
“(He’ll say) ‘this is sore — I got 
a niggle in my knee or a niggle in my foot’ and we’re like ‘what?’”
Redshirt senior Eddie Garcia 
is also quick to point out some of Chambers’ Australian idioms. 
“He calls track workouts ‘ses-
sions,’” Garcia said, adding that “instead of afternoon, he’ll say ‘arvo,’ like ‘see this arvo?’”
Minor confusion and annoy-
ance aside, Garcia said that Cham-
bers’ thick Australian accent is def-
initely a source of positivity more than one of confusion. 
“We actually took him to Out-
back Steakhouse … and we had a fun time there. We had a waitress and we kept trying to get him to talk in his Australian accent and he kept trying to mask it,” Garcia said. 
“We always try to get him to 
use it [his accent] to his advantage because American girls, they like guys with Australian accents. He 
never really believes it.”
•   •   •
Leadership is perhaps not ex-
pected of — but usually coincides 
with — the oldest members of a 
team.
For Chambers, a traditional, 
vocal leadership role is pretty 
much out of the question being 
that he was as new to the team as any freshman. 
And he knows that.
“I feel like I’m essentially a 
freshman in a lot of regards any-
way,” Chambers said.
“I don’t have the words of 
wisdom because I haven’t been 
here before. I don’t know what to expect and I can’t really lead the 
younger guys through it.”
That being said, Spangler still 
believes that Charles has made 
strides in the realm of leadership 
during his short time at UF.
“Even though Charles has been 
here for less than a year, the guys 
on the team … see him as an equal because he is as hard-working as 
they are,” Spangler said. 
Garcia, one of the team’s un-
questioned leaders, says that 
Chambers’ leadership role ex-
pands even further than life expe-
riences. 
“He’s more like a silent leader. 
He leads by example,” Garcia said.
“Other guys kinda try to mold 
off of him too. He’s a good ex-ample for the younger guys to fol-low.”
•   •   •
It’s somewhat unfortunate 
that Chambers only has one cross country season at UF, because by 
all accounts, he’s enjoyed his time 
in Gainesville very much.
“He loves it. He really, really 
enjoys it,” Ferris said.
“As much as he misses home, 
he enjoys where he’s at at the mo-ment more.”
Chambers himself has found 
that beyond his experiences on 
the track and terrain, the overall 
experience of living here has ben-efitted him more than he thought it would.
“I came over here primarily for 
the running, but I’ve probably tak-
en a lot more out of it than that,” 
he said. 
And as much as he’s enjoyed 
being on the team, the team has 
enjoyed having him just as much. 
“We love Charles. Jimmy 
[Clark] and I are really close with 
Charles,” Garcia said. 
“It’s definitely been a lot of fun 
having him on the team.”
When he does end up go-
ing back to Australia, Chambers hopes to be in better shape as a 
runner and to put up good results 
on the Australian domestic circuit. 
For now, though, he has his 
eyes set on this season, on a po-tential SEC championship and on 
making sure that he makes his last 
year count. 
“I guess I feel like I need to get 
it right this season,” Chambers 
said. 
“I don’t have another season to 
fall back on.”XC,  from pg15Chambers looking to 
lead despite being a 
graduate transfer 
ing since he’s been here.”
After pouring in months of 
work and rehab, Morrison was 
ready to start on Sept. 5 against New Mexico State. 
It’s a recovery time McElwain 
has called nothing short of mirac-ulous, and his teammates have at-tributed it to the exceptional work ethic the linebacker possesses. 
“He’s the true definition of a 
hard worker,” safety Keanu Neal said. 
“That’s kind of cliché to say, 
but he’s definitely the hardest worker I’ve ever been around. 
“At practice, meetings, just all 
over the place, he’s dialed in. He’s giving 110 (percent) every time.”
Now, just a few weeks into the 
season, Morrison already appears to be back in top form.
He was named SEC Defensive 
Player of the Week after his per-formance against Ole Miss, a game in which he recorded 16 tackles, 3.5 tackles for loss and half a sack against what was then the second highest scoring offense in college football.
But don’t ask Morrison about 
it. 
Individual performances aren’t 
part of his motivation, and he doesn’t want any credit for any-thing he’s overcome this offsea-son. 
Nothing else matters to him 
except wins and losses. 
“We won, that’s all I care 
about,” Morrison said about the SEC honor.
 “It ain’t (about) me as an in-
dividual.”
His team-first attitude is part of what endears the senior to his teammates and his coaches, and it’s likely why he’s been able to make such an impressive individ-ual recovery.
It’s never been about what he 
can do himself, and because of that, he doesn’t like to talk about the praise he’s garnering from his performances. 
But as can be expected, his 
humble attitude is noticed by Morrison's teammates. 
They see his sacrifice and dedi-
cation while knowing its part of the process. 
“He doesn’t want the credit,” 
Neal said. 
“And that’s good. That’s how 
it should be.
“You should be very selfless 
playing this game. You should care about your teammates and he does.”
FOOTBALL,  from pg13Morrison had 16 tackles vs. Ole MissBy Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
Florida fans may have seen him 
on the bench last season. 
At 6-foot-11, he’s hard to miss.
John Egbunu is done sitting. 
He’s ready to play ball. The redshirt sophomore from 
Nigeria transferred to UF in the 
summer of 2014 after playing one 
season at the University of South Florida. 
NCAA transfer rules made him 
ineligible for the Gators last year, 
but he’s ﬁ  nally ready to take the 
court this season for new coach UF Mike White.
“He’s very, very passionate. He 
plays loudly. I wish all our guys would play loudly,” White said of Egbunu. 
“He’s very aggressive. He plays 
with a high level of intensity espe-
cially if the ball is in his hands or 
he’s around the ball.”
Egbunu averaged 7.4 points and 
6.2 rebounds per game in his fresh-
man season with the Bulls, where 
he started in 31 games and became USF’s all-time leader in rebounding for a freshman with 198. 
He admitted it was hard to sit 
out a year after transferring, but added he thinks it did him some good.
“It was tough, but at the same 
time it was a learning process for me,” Egbunu said. 
“I spent a lot of time working 
on my game and getting better, de-veloping a lot of my weaknesses. It 
was time well spent.”
Not only did Egbunu work on developing his post skills, which 
he said he has improved, he also 
worked on improving his body. He 
said he has slimmed down from 270 pounds to 249, a change that will help him in what is supposed 
to be a fast-paced, running the ﬂ  oor 
type of offense that White is putting into place.
“I think it’s going to impact me a 
lot to play fast,” Egbunu said of his 
weight loss. 
“The new coaching staff wants 
an up-tempo style of play, so me 
losing weight is a plus because it helps me get up and down the ﬂ  oor a lot quicker.”
In this new style of offense for 
the Gators, utilizing a big man doesn’t seem like a top priority, but White doesn’t want to miss out 
on the opportunity to tap into Eg-
bunu’s full potential down low. 
He can create such a forceful 
presence in the paint that White said he has to get the ball.
“It’s not challenging at all,” 
White said about ﬁ  tting Egbunu into his offense.
“I think most coaches would stand up here and tell you they’re going to do their best to take advan-
tage of their strengths. We have a 
guy that can score it on the interior, we’re going to throw him the ball.”
A strong post presence is some-
thing Florida missed last year fol-lowing the departure of Patric Young. 
Egbunu now steps in and has 
the potential to more than make up 
for that absence. 
Coaches and teammates are ex-
cited about what they have seen 
from him in the offseason, offen-sively and defensively.   
“He’s a dog. That’s all I can see. 
John Egbunu is a dog,” said sopho-more forward Devin Robinson. 
“In a good way. He’s a man-
child. He gets the ball, it’s going 
in. He’s dunking everything. He’s 
rebounding. He’s a man. It’s going to be a good presence down low.”
Redshirt senior forward Dorian 
Finney-Smith was quick to compli-
ment Egbunu’s athleticism, saying 
he can jump, run and has great feet. 
Finney-Smith added that staying 
healthy and continuing to develop 
are crucial for Egbunu’s success.
Finally eligible and ready to 
contribute, Egbunu is one of many 
new faces on this Florida basketball team with the potential to play a 
large role and make an immediate 
impact in the new Mike White era.
“He’s done it at the Division I 
level. He’s had a great offseason,” 
White said. “John is a very talented 
young man. We expect him to have a really good career.”16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF center John Egbunu walks onto the court at the O’Connell Center during Gators Madness on Friday. 
Egbunu sat out last season due to NCAA transfer rules. 
MEN’S BASKETBALL
Transfer center ready to make an impact for the Gators
Egbu-who?
 
 Made 31 starts at USF during 2013-14 season
 USF’s all-time leader in rebounding as a fresh-man with 198
 Transferred to Florida in Summer 2014
 Sat out last season due to NCAA  transfer regulations