We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 35 MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016
For Kasey Hill, the time to 
lead is now
The senior guard is one of the most 
experienced players on UF’s roster,  pg. 13
Gator Growl, UF use Snapchat to reach students
Special location ﬁ  lters will appear this week only, pg. 5
UF Vet Med seeks to help charity
They hope to raise more than $1,000, pg. 5Man detained after threatening
to ‘shoot up’ Gainesville
He was found with an American ﬂ  ag in his
possession, pg. 3
By Paige Fry and 
Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writers 
Following a weekend of unﬂ  at-
tering revelations for Hillary Clin-
ton and Donald Trump, students on both sides of the political aisle gathered Sunday to listen to the presidential candidates debate for a second time.
Both moderators, CNN’s Ander-
son Cooper and ABC News’ Mar-
tha Raddatz, asked the candidates 
about their plans to combat the spread of radical Islamic terrorism, the leaked video of Trump’s lewd 
comments about women and the 
leaked snippets of what appear to 
be Clinton’s paid speeches to Wall Street heads. Each candidate peppered re-
sponses with personal attacks and 
took questions from the audience.  
Cecile Richards, the president of 
Planned Parenthood, joined the UF 
College Democrats at the Alachua County for Hillary ofﬁ  ce to watch 
the prime-time debate.
About 70 people attended the 
watch party, and Richards spoke 
brieﬂ  y before the debate in support of Clinton.
“We cannot let Donald Trump 
become the president of the United States of America,” she said.
When confronted with the 
11-year-old video released Friday by The Washington Post, which featured Trump commenting on how his fame could facilitate the  UF students react to the 
second presidential debate
By Molly Donovan and 
Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writers
Following Hurricane Matthew’s 
slight brush with Gainesville, some 
residents and students have band-ed together to help those seriously affected by the deadly storm — in-
cluding those in Haiti and Northern 
Florida.
On Thursday, a Gainesville Fire 
Rescue emergency-relief task force 
drove up to Flagler Beach to help 
local ﬁ  rst responders evacuate resi-dents from homes, many of which 
were ﬂ  ooded. 
They didn’t return until Satur-
day night, just as First Magnitude 
Brewing Company in Gainesville was raising about $1,800 for relief efforts in Haiti, where more than 800 people died, according to Re-uters.
“Sometimes when you get 
something like this, it’s just over-whelming,” said Michael Cowart, the GFR operations chief.
In the thick of the storm, the 
ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters went door to door through neighborhoods as local departments struggled with a high volume of calls, he said. From the time they arrived to the time they left, the phone calls didn’t stop.
Days before the storm struck 
Haiti’s southern cities, Santa Fe College agriculture sophomore and international student Daniel Mon-santo heard from his family in the country’s capital, Port-au-Prince.
“During the days that it was 
happening, I was so stressed out,” he said. “I was listening to the news and watching TV, group chatting my family every day.”
He said the southern cities were 
affected most, and his family and home were spared in the south-east. Monsanto said he and his family often vacation in the south, though, and it is one of the main agricultural areas of the country.
He was there with his family 
over summer.
“Can you imagine places you’ve 
visited or vacationed just vanish-ing because of a storm?” Monsan-to said. “Some parts of it are just gone. Places I’ve been.”He said the damage and de-
struction are heartbreaking, and people don’t realize what a toll it will take on the economy and re-sources in the south. Despite being spared from Hurricane Matthew’s effects in Gainesville, students and residents should help in any way they can, he said.
“There are a lot of people down 
there,” Monsanto said. “I already went through my closet and put clothes in the car I’m ready to send down there. Everyone should have 
 After Hurricane Matthew, Gainesville rallies to help Haiti, North Florida
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Jesus Martinez leans on the 
cold metal of a pullup bar and laughs with his 6 p.m. CrossFit class. 
Red-faced and sweaty, his stu-
dents move about the room lift-ing weights, dropping to the ﬂ  oor in pushup position and straining their muscles as they hang from the bars next to him. He leans down occasionally, straightening a leg or giving encouragement to 
those struggling to ﬁ  nish an exer-
cise.
The class members huff a 
breath of relief when they ﬁ  nish a 
tough set. They stretch. Then they 
stride past the art hung down the 
length of the room toward a large 
whiteboard to read off what comes next.
One room over, Jesus Marti-
nez’s wife, Carrie, paints.“With the art, people are be-
ing exposed to culture and beauty 
while they workout,” she said. 
“It’s like mind, body and spirit all 
at once — uplifting yourself in ev-ery way that you can.”
Jesus and Carrie Martinez 
own what may be the only art-
gallery-CrossFit-gym fusion in 
the country. They opened their unique business, aptly called Vi-sionary CrossFit, on Main Street 
last January. The main workout room serves as an art gallery, and 
framed pictures are hung along 
the wall behind weights, pullup 
bars and workout gear.
“We wanted to incorporate all 
our passions into one place,” Jesus 
Martinez said. “We thought, ‘Let’s 
try a gym and gallery and see how 
that works.’ We’re just trying to 
be different. We don’t want to be the average CrossFit place.”
•   •   •Every morning, Jesus Martinez wakes up at 5 a.m. to start work-
ing on the whiteboard that holds his daily workouts. He said he spends about three hours working 
on the board, his hands collect-
ing smears of ink on the sides as he draws each line with dry-erase markers.
From a bright pink unicorn in 
a spacesuit to the side proﬁ  le of a woman surrounded by ﬂ  uorescent  Transforming the game: Local CrossFit gym uses art to inspireGrace King / Alligator Staff
Daniel Hopin, a 20-year-old UF public relations junior, covers his face as he watches the two candidates 
banter back and forth during the UF College Republicans’ watch party on Sunday evening at Social 28’s south building, located at 311 SW 13th St.
SEE DEBATE,  PAGE 4
SEE HURRICANE,  PAGE 9
SEE CROSSFIT,  PAGE 8FEATURESubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  77° LOW  59°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Free English classes and 
citizenship classes
The Latina Women’s League 
is offering free English class-es on Tuesdays until Nov. 8 from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at 
the Alachua County Library 
Millhopper Branch. Anyone 
looking to improve their con-versational English can attend. 
The league is also offering 
free citizenship classes every Thursday until Oct. 20 from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the li-brary, during which attendees can learn about the process of citizenship. For more infor-mation, visit latinawomens-league.org.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets Tuesdays at 5:45 
p.m. in UF’s Entomology-
Nematology Building, located at 1881 Natural Area Drive, Room 1031. For details, go to talkinggators.toastmas-tersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page. “The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a mutually supportive and positive learning experi-ence in which every member has the opportunity to develop communication and leadership skills, which in turn foster self-confidence and personal growth.”
RUB Entertainment's Beats and 
Bowling: '90s Night 
Tuesday will be '90s Night 
in the Reitz Union. Sing your favorite throwback karaoke songs at Orange and Brew or 
enjoy free access to all the 
Reitz Union game room has to 
offer. Join Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment from 8 p.m.  to 11 p.m. Tuesday for free food, 
'90s jams, games and a night 
only '90s kids will remember.
RUB Entertainment's Weave 
Away Your Worries
Mid-semester slump got you 
stressed out? Come find your 
Zen with Reitz Union Board 
Arts. Enjoy a cozy cup of tea or hot cocoa as you create your 
very own dream catcher. RUB 
Arts provides all of the materi-
als. All you need to do is sit 
back, relax and give your brain a break with this calming craft. 
Say goodbye to restless nights 
and hello to beauty sleep. This event will take place in the Reitz Union, Room G310, from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Wednesday.
Shambhala Meditation Group 
Center SpeakerScott Brown, the author of the just-published book "Active 
Peace: A Mindful Path to 
a Nonviolent World" will 
speak Oct. 18 at 8 p.m. at the 
Shambhala Meditation Group Center, located at 1899 NE 
23rd Ave. Attendees are sug-
gested to donate $15 as an en-
try fee. Scott holds a master's degree in ecopsychology and transpersonal psychology from 
Naropa University. His talk 
is part of a 50-city book tour, 
and copies of his book will be available for purchase. For more information, visit gaines-
ville.shambhala.org, call 352-
214-1334 or email shambhala-
jms@gmail.com.
GLAM Craft Show 2016 
accepting applicationsGainesville’s largest indie craft show is accepting applications for its Dec. 4 event. Artists and crafters who make unique, giftable goods are encouraged to apply. The application dead-line is Oct. 23. Apply online at glamcraftshow.com/apply.
Micanopy Fall Festival
The Micanopy Fall Festival 
will take place Oct. 29 from 
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Oct. 30 
from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. There 
will be food, entertainment 
and more than 200 displays 
of arts and crafts. On Oct. 30, 
there will be an auction of do-
nated items from vendors from 
2 p.m. to 4 p.m. More informa-tion can be found at micano-
pyfallfestival.org or by calling 
352-466-7026.
STRIVE Sexual Consent Health 
Communication CampaignAre you and your friends clear about sexual consent? Relying on nonverbal communication or cultural scripts can result in sexual assault. Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell has cre-ated a Sexual Consent Health Communication Campaign to help reduce the incidence of sexual assault through knowl-edge, belief and behavior change. Check it out at gator-well.ufsa.ufl.edu or contact Rita Lawrence at rital@ufsa.ufl.edu for more information and to request materials.
Hippodrome Political Watch 
PartiesJoin the Hippodrome State Theatre to watch the presiden-tial debates leading up to the 2016 election party Nov. 8. The Hippodrome basement will be open to the public for this can’t-miss series. All watch parties are free to attend. The watch party for the third presi-
dential debate is Oct. 19, and 
the election night watch party is Nov. 8. The bar will open 30 minutes before the watch par-
ties begin. Some Americana-
themed Hippodrome specials 
will be served. Grab your friends and a cocktail to enjoy this politically charged event 
(that’s all in good fun).
3rd Annual Day of Grace, Open 
House at Grace Marketplace
On Nov. 12, from 10 a.m. to 
1 p.m., Grace Marketplace will 
host an open house. Those in 
attendance will be able to en-
joy a catered picnic lunch, lis-
ten to live music by the Jazz 
Bandits and Uptown Swing, 
take a tour of our homeless 
shelter, find volunteer oppor-
tunities, participate in a pick-
up kickball game, yoga class 
or chair massage and find out 
about all the great things hap-
pening at Grace Marketplace. 
While the event is free, dona-
tions are appreciated. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 35
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandMONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
HE WAS FOUND WITH AN 
AMERICAN FLAG IN HIS 
POSSESSION.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
After a man threatened to go 
on a shooting spree in the city, 
Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cers searched Bivens North Condominiums for about an hour Sunday, eventually 
detaining the unarmed man and 
sending him to a psychiatric facil-ity for treatment.Ming Rowell, 48, who was 
found with an American ﬂ  ag in his possession, called police multiple times, stating he would “shoot up different areas of town,” wrote GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in a text message.
At about 3 p.m., ofﬁ  cers armed 
with handguns and assault riﬂ  es 
started their search near and out-
side the ofﬁ  ce building shared by the Alligator and the Gainesville Sun, located at 2700 S.W. 13th Street. 
They then cut through a wood-
ed area, across Northwest 14th Drive and to the pool area of the Bivens property.
Police used cellphone tracking 
technology to eventually locate Rowell near one of the units. As Police walked him to a patrol car, Rowell said what he had done was a mistake.
“I f----- up, yeah,” he said. “I 
made some mistakes.”
Tobias said ofﬁ  cers were not 
sure how credible Rowell’s threats were, but they wanted to ensure public safety.
 Lt. Tscharna Senn, a depart-
ment spokeswoman, said Row-ell was a military veteran whose service left him in need of mental health counseling.
While the ofﬁ  cers combed their 
way through the complex search-ing for him, residents — includ-ing women with young children — distanced themselves. The ofﬁ  -cers then split up, with one group 
searching the wooded area by 
Northwest 14th Drive and the re-maining ofﬁ  cers — a SWAT team member and an ofﬁ  cer — checking condominium garages.
With guns drawn and aimed 
ahead, the two swung open doors as they monitored Rowell’s move-ments remotely.
Taking out her recycling during 
the manhunt, 67-year-old Beverly Giordano said she was happy po-lice took the threat seriously, but 
she felt her neighbors may have 
been on edge after seeing heavily armed police at the normally quiet complex.
“That would be a little freaky to 
look out your window and see po-lice (with guns drawn),” she said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org 
 Man detained after threatening to ‘shoot up’ Gainesville 4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016
IT IS THE FIRST EVENT OF 
HOMECOMING WEEK.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
After a hurricane delay, 45 students will 
compete in the UF Homecoming Pageant. 
The pageant, which is the first in a line  
of events leading up to the Homecoming 
football game Saturday, will be held at the 
Phillips Center for Performing Arts from 7 
p.m. to 10 p.m. The contestants in this year’s 
pageant will compete in five categories in-cluding interview, talent and a final ques-tion.
The pageant was originally scheduled to be held Sunday night, but it was canceled due to Hurricane Matthew and the closure of campus over the weekend.
Tristan Ahlquist, the associate producer 
of communications for Gator Growl, said he 
doesn’t expect the delay to impact turnout 
for the event, which had a budget of about $8,000. Contestants also have sponsors to 
raise money for the pageant. 
Students who are involved with campus 
life are chosen to participate after filling out 
an application, Ahlquist said. 
“The pageant contestants are leaders on 
campus and represent the Student Body at 
the University of Florida,” Ahlquist said.
At the end of the night, three women and 
three men will be selected as finalists to be a part of the Homecoming Court, and the win-
ners will be announced at Gator Growl on Friday, he said.
“Each individual performs, and their tal-
ent does not always reflect their involvement 
on campus,” he said. “It’s exciting to see 
what each contestant brings to the table.”
Taylor McMahon, 18, will be cheering 
as her friend, Hallie Ann Zimmerman, com-petes in the pageant.
“I’m excited to see Hallie on stage and 
being herself,” the UF sociology sophomore 
said. “I hope she gets up there and gives it 
everything she has.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgUF Homecoming Pageant begins weeklong celebration
• Monday at 7 p.m. at the Phillips 
Center: Homecoming Pageant 
• Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. (food) and 7 p.m. (show) at the Phillips Center: Soulfest 
• Friday at 10 a.m. on the Plaza of the Americas: Homecoming Festival 
• Friday at 11:15 a.m. beginning at the James G. Pressly Stadium: SunTrust Gator Gallop
• Friday at noon starting on West University Avenue: Homecoming Parade 
• Friday at 6 p.m. on Flavet Field: Gator Growl 
• Saturday at 4 p.m. at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium: Homecoming football game
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer
After a yearslong court battle 
between former owners of Tu-
toringZone and their investors, a judge ruled Thursday that the own-ers could not file bankruptcy.
In her ruling, Karen Specie, the 
chief judge of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Florida, barred Matthew and La-rina Hintze, the original owners of the college-tutoring company, to file bankruptcy under Chapter 7 of 
the U.S. Bankruptcy Codes.
The group of investors, who 
contributed to some of the $2.6 mil-
lion used to fund the Hintzes’ com-pany, decided to sue the couple to keep them from filing bankruptcy months after the couple handed the company over to a UF business professor, according to Alligator ar-chives.
Filing bankruptcy would “dis-
charge” them from personal li-
ability for most debts, according to 
bankruptcy codes. 
Corporations do not qualify for 
discharge under Chapter 7. 
After reviewing evidence, 
thumbing through submitted files and listening to arguments from both parties, Specie said the de-fendants, the Hintzes, could not legally file bankruptcy because evi-dence showed the Hintzes were not transparent with investors when it 
came to the company’s status.
“They used (TutoringZone) for 
their own benefit,” she said.
The decision will not be final 
until the paperwork is submitted, 
she said. 
As of press time, the Hintzes 
could not be reached for comment. Matt Hintze is currently listed as a tutor on TutoringZone’s website. 
Robert Wilcox, who represented 
the investors, said Specie’s deci-
sion was the end of the bankruptcy 
battle for his clients.
“It was really more of a vindi-
cation of what they were arguing,” Wilcox said. “The Hintzes were guilty of misconduct.” 
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org 
Former TutoringZone owners cannot file bankruptcy, judge rules
groping and kissing of women, he 
said he respected women more than anyone else did.
“This was locker room talk,” 
Trump said.
Hailey Becker, 21, said she 
couldn’t believe the 2016 presiden-tial debate looked like a reality TV show.
“I was appalled by the way he 
considered his comments as just locker room talk, as if they’re just a normal thing to say,” the UF political science senior said.
At the Social 28 apartment com-
plex, a group of UF College Republi-cans watched as Trump spoke about accusations of sexual assault against former President Bill Clinton.
“It definitely looks like Trump is 
going on the offensive,” said Richard El-Rassy, the president of UF College Republicans.
He said that it is important to 
not downplay Trump’s words, but if Clinton claims to be a champion of women’s rights, she should take action against the allegations against her husband.
“She can’t really be effective if 
her husband is being accused of worse things,” the 20-year-old UF finance senior said.
Ajay Mittal, 18, said this election 
is going to be based solely on the character of the candidates. 
“Neither of them have talked 
about policy,” the UF biology sopho-more said. “Each of them only at-tacks the other’s character.”Mittal said he would prefer to 
have a debate that talked about poli-cies like health care, something that is relevant to his future career. 
He said each candidate is unpop-
ular with the county, and neither of them has displayed the character of a good president. 
“We’re choosing between a bigot 
and a liar,” he said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  
DEBATE,  from pg. 1Both UF College Republicans and Democrats hosted watch parties
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
From left: Miraal Chhelavda, a 21-year-old UF business administration senior, and Maria Kuran, a 17-year-old UF art history freshman, laugh with others in the room as Donald Trump tells Hillary Clinton she owes President Barack Obama an apology. Both Chhelavda and Kuran attended the UF College Republicans’ watch party along with about 15 other people on Sunday evening at Social 28’s south building.
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff 
Marival Parish, a 21-year-old UF theatre student, watches the second presidential debate outside of Maude’s Cafe on Sunday evening while studying. 
REGISTER TO VOTE
• Deadline in Florida: Tuesday
• Where to find information: vote.org
• Where to find Florida forms: UF’s Bob Graham Center for Public Service at Pugh Hall, vote.org.
• Where to bring forms: County Supervisor of Elections, Department of Motor Vehicles, military recruiting offices and public libraries. THE FILTERS HELP PROMOTE 
EVENTS, CHANGES ON CAMPUS.
By Livia Ledbetter
Alligator Contributing Writer
Student organizations and UF are 
using Snapchat to promote on-campus 
events and changes.
Millie Llanes, the executive producer 
of Gator Growl, said the organization created a ﬁ  lter through the picture-based application for Gator Growl. The ﬁ  lter, 
which is available until Friday, is only 
available on Turlington Plaza, but stu-dents will have other ﬁ  lters to choose from during the event Friday. 
“One of our biggest goals is to be as 
interactive as possible,” Llanes said. 
The ﬁ  lter was created by a director 
of art and layout for Gator Growl and Homecoming, and it was approved by 
UF’s administration, Llanes said. 
The social media team at UF’s Ofﬁ  ce 
of University Relations helps different 
groups on campus with social media out-reach, which can be anything from Snap-
chat, Twitter or Facebook, said Robbie 
Smith, the multimedia specialist for UF Media Relations.
“Overall, (creating the ﬁ  lter) is not a painful process,” he said. 
When any group, organization or de-
partment reaches out to the team, Smith said they discuss what they want to pro-
mote and how to do that across multiple 
platforms. The social media team’s ser-vice is free and open to anyone, Smith said. Smith said he’s created ﬁ  lters for 
study abroad fairs and Weeks of Wel-
come events at UF. 
“We are happy to help anyone that 
wants to take advantage of those plat-forms,” Smith said.
There are two different kinds of ﬁ  lters 
Snapchat provides: community and on-demand, Smith said. Community ﬁ  lters cannot have any brand images and are 
free to submit but can take longer to get 
approved than on-demand ﬁ  lters, which are paid for and last through a speciﬁ  c time period.
Diana Dombrowski, the digital schol-
arship associate for Library West, met with Smith over Summer to discuss the best way to promote the library now be-ing open 24/7.
Dombrowski said they talked about 
distinctive features of the building, and they settled on creating a Snapchat ﬁ  l-ter, which shows a sun and moon over an image of the library. It received an almost-unanimous vote by staff. 
Dombrowski chose the geolocation on 
a map and set the time available down to the minute, she said. The ﬁ  lter at Li-
brary West is an on-demand ﬁ  lter, which 
cost $226 to put on for 10 days. As of Thursday morning, it had 780 uses on photos and was viewed 21,400 times, 
Dombrowski said. 
“I think it’s gorgeous, and with the 
sun and the moon, it’s so easy to tell ex-
actly what it’s referencing,” Dombrowski said. 
She said she wants students to be 
aware of the library’s social media, through which upcoming news and events are posted. 
If successful, she said the library 
could end up using the app to promote future events. 
Llanes said creating ﬁ  lters for Home-
coming Week was a long time coming. 
After Gator Growl wasn’t able to get ap-
proval from Snapchat for ﬁ  lters last year, she said they started working earlier this year to secure them. 
“With the way social media is going 
right now, we really wanted to be inter-active with students, and Snapchat ﬁ  l-ter is something that’s come out of left ﬁ  eld,” she said. MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Nicole Franco
Alligator Contributing Writer 
People can submit photos of their 
furry friends to help raise more than 
$1,000 for charity by 5 p.m. today.
UF’s College of Veterinary Medi-
cine is hoping to raise $1,040 through 
its second annual Paws for a Good 
Cause fundraiser. Last year, the col-lege raised $520. During the fundraiser, anyone 
can enter a pet’s photo into a cutest-pet contest for a $5 fee, said Kathryn Mendez, an organizer and program assistant for small animal clinical sci-ences.
Prizes are given to winners of the 
cutest pet, which is determined by the number of votes the animal gets, Mendez said.
She said the college hasn’t decided how voting will be conducted this year. Last year, the 95 photos were uploaded to Facebook, where people could cast a vote by liking it or com-menting on it. 
“We have a goal of $1,040 this 
year, and it would just be an awe-
some feeling if we could double what 
we did last year,” Mendez said.
The money raised will be given 
to UF Campaign for Charities, which will distribute the funds to charities around Gainesville, said Karen Thom-as, a community relations specialist for UF’s 
Ofﬁ  ce of University Rela-
tions. The Campaign will give money 
to about 100 agencies this year.
Christina Cusick, the senior sec-
retary at the dean’s ofﬁ  ce of the Col-lege of Veterinary Medicine, said she 
hopes more people submit photos of 
their pets. This year, she said the most unusual pet she’s seen is a hamster. 
She also said she hopes the college 
can double what it raised last year. 
“The most rewarding feeling is 
that the little bit of work that we are doing is helping someone else out in our community,” Cusick said.
Entries can be submitted to crcu-
sick@uﬂ  .edu or mizerk@uﬂ  .edu. 
They can also be dropped off at the 
College of Veterinary Medicine. Cute-pet photo contest to raise money for animal charities Courtesy to the Alligator
A Gator Growl Snapchat geoﬁ  lter was added 
on Wednesday and will be available until Friday. The ﬁ  lter is only available on Turlington Plaza, with other ﬁ  lters available at Gator Growl.
 Gator Growl, UF use Snapchat to reach studentsThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORThink before you help: how intention can hinder eﬀ  ect
With the impact of Hurricane Matthew 
becoming clearer each day, it’s evi-dent Florida was spared the worst of it. It devastated Haiti. While students at UF hoped for the hurricane to 
cancel class and delay their exams, Haiti was washed out by the hurricane. 
Now more than ever, in light of such trag-
edy, people feel moved to help even though 
they’ll likely forget this feeling in a few months. However, in their rush to provide assistance, they might not think about how they’re helping.
It’s important to think critically about who you sup-
port. Unfortunately, this isn’t the ﬁ  rst time Haiti has 
faced a devastating natural disaster. Because of this, it’s easy to tell which organizations will actually make a dif-ference by looking at how they behaved last time. Accord-ing to ProPublica, even though the American Red Cross is the “charity of choice” for many Americans, it turns 
out that after the devastating 2010 Haiti earthquake, the 
organization raised half a billion dollars but only built six homes. 
Some might think it’s just easier to send old clothes. 
However, this could negatively impact the local economy. According to human rights activist Mariah Grifﬁ  n-Angus, “A signiﬁ  cant reason why countries like Uganda, Nigeria and Haiti lag behind developed countries is because of a combination of a lack of infrastructure and the difﬁ  culty in 
creating formal employment opportunities.” She suggests, 
instead, donating so clothes can be bought locally, which results in workers being paid and helps the country be-come more self-sufﬁ  cient. Local clothing suppliers cannot compete with cheap donated clothing from people who think they are doing countries like Haiti a favor.
Students are susceptible to another kind of aid: volun-
tourism. The idea of being abroad and volunteering seems like a unique thing to put on a resume, and thus volun-
tourism agencies are a constant presence at UF. They ask 
to plug their efforts in classrooms — and professors let them, without actually thinking about the consequences of voluntourism on the communities they pro-fess to help. 
The presence of foreign (mostly white) vol-
unteers can negatively affect a country’s econo-my. According to a 2014 report from SAGE Pub-
lications, the voluntourism industry is worth 
$173 billion annually, and volunteers expose their privilege by sharing selﬁ  es with the local children. While voluntourism agencies might claim the experience is life changing, it’s more accurate to call it proﬁ  le-picture-changing. At the end of the day, the agencies and the vol-
unteers beneﬁ  t in the form of proﬁ  ts and “cute” pictures, while the populations of the countries suffer after being 
roped into a dependent relationship with the volunteers.
Since these volunteers might only be there for a few 
weeks, efforts are focused on short-term solutions. Par-
ents might be encouraged to send their kids to orphanages where they will be provided for rather than developing the means to care for their children themselves, according to a 2010 Human Sciences Research Council report.
Because it creates dependency, voluntourism is essen-
tially encouraging a new form of colonialism. 
Don’t let this discourage your impulse to help. There 
are Haitian-led efforts that are worth contributing to and foreign NGOs that help — Haiti Communitere and Part-ners in Health are some good examples. Those who are thinking of donating money to a charity need to consider where the money is going and the charity’s track record of maintaining sustainable development.
It’s important to think about what a community needs 
before assuming you know what it needs. What one might 
think helps a community could inadvertently hurt it. This 
is one of those cases in which intention doesn’t matter — only the effect does. Support sustainable efforts that aren’t just there for the cameras. Rather than beneﬁ  ting off of Haiti’s misery, encourage a long-term effort that will actu-ally make a difference.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science junior. Her column 
appears on Mondays.
Not everyone gets to 
move forward after 
Hurricane Matthew
Fellow Gators and football fans, we need to sit down and have a chat about your behavior over this weekend. A state of emergency was declared over our great state as Hurri-cane Matthew wreaked havoc in the Caribbean and our east coast. As of press time, 902 people have perished in 
the wake of this catastrophic storm.
Those responsible for postponing the football game made an 
unpopular, albeit necessary, decision. On Saturday, our weather here in Gainesville was nothing short of beautiful, but there was no way for anybody (meteorologists, Southeastern Conference of-ﬁ  cials, team management, etc.) to know this would be the case. There was a strong possibility that Gainesville could have been dealing with some serious aftermath.
Other areas in Florida weren’t so fortunate. Pretty much the 
entire east coast was placed under hurricane-warning status, an area, mind you, that 52 members of our football roster are from. With so many of our players having their homes and the homes of their families in a potential zone of destruction, it is likely those team members are grateful the game was postponed. They could focus on helping their families in their efforts to stay safe this past weekend, not to mention the police and ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters who left the Swamp to help out in other affected counties. 
Fellow football fans, please respect the damage Hurricane 
Matthew has caused here in Florida and elsewhere over the coun-try and in the Caribbean. While the weather here was bright, some of our students woke up Saturday morning to information quite dim. The authorities in charge of making the decision to cancel the game were absolutely correct in their decision, and I’m sure many of us here at UF are grateful they did so, even if we did miss a football game to be possibly made up in the near future.
That being said, there is a crisis going on in Haiti. We here in 
Florida, especially those from South Florida, know how deep our 
history with Haiti is. Many of our fellow residents and students 
have loved ones in Haiti.  
Haiti, right now, is in a state of national mourning. Accord-
ing to government ofﬁ  cials, 350,000 people need aid. Thousands of homes have been destroyed there. With crop ﬁ  elds left bar-ren, their food supply is dwindling. Local infrastructure was destroyed; sewage and ﬂ  oodwaters mixed into water supplies, leaving many people without access to clean water. Without help from the international community, the aftermath of Hurricane 
Matthew will continue to devastate Haiti, even though the wind 
and rain have become calmer.
Don’t feel bad if this is the ﬁ  rst time you’re hearing all of this. 
Turn on the TV, and all you’ll see is another example of Trump’s already well-documented sexism. Another gaffe in the saga of his campaign distracted us from thousands of suffering people. On social media, no such indication that a storm had hit the small island nation exists. No #PrayForHaiti trended on Twitter, and no proﬁ  le photo ﬁ  lter was released on Facebook.  
As Floridians, we cannot sit here in good conscience while the 
families and friends of our families and friends suffer. Everybody reading this editorial knows someone who was directly or indi-rectly affected by the destruction of Hurricane Matthew. Every-body can do something, whether it’s donating goods or money (please donate to organizations with histories of actually helping) or reaching out to friends who need comfort. Do not turn a blind eye on those in trouble. Be grateful we here in Gainesville are safe, and express that gratitude by helping those who weren’t.
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
It’s mystical. It’s magical. No, 
it’s not a super rare Pokemon —  it’s Gatorship.
If you haven’t heard of 
it, I’m not surprised, but I 
am a little sad. Gatorship is one of those gems special to UF that, if you’re lucky enough, you hear about from a mentor or a friend who comes back raving about it. 
So pretend you know me, be-
cause I’m about to give you the scoop. You’re welcome.
Gatorship is a weekend- or day-and-
a-half-long leadership retreat held in the Spring at a beautiful camp called Weed — not kidding. The camp is beautiful, the food is amazing and, best of all, the retreat is inclusive.
Sponsored by the Division of Student 
Affairs and Multicultural and Diversity Af-fairs, this retreat is the only place on cam-pus during which you have the chance to learn leadership skills while getting an even better understanding of who you are as a person.
Alex Mazzeo, a fourth-year UF psychol-
ogy student and the parliamentarian for Sa-vant Leadership Honorary, said he attended the retreat to become a better leader but left with even more. 
“The actual retreat was very much this 
exploration of self and the people around you, pretty much humanizing people with the purpose of creating more inclusivity, eradicating stereotypes and just creating a better community to live in,” he said.
For future leaders at this university, this 
is crucial. Because, really, what is the Gator Good if it doesn’t include every Gator? In one retreat, Gatorship aims to give you all the tools necessary to meet the needs of the university’s Student Body. Their only wish is that you aren’t ashamed to share what you learn, take this knowledge back to your organizations on campus and use it to make them even better.
The irony is that because of Gatorship’s 
focus on diversity and multiculturalism, some people miss out because they don’t think this retreat is meant for them. 
It has a lot to do with our deﬁ  nition of 
diversity. “I think people see the word 'di-versity' and think that they don’t fall into that,” Mazzeo said. “I think peo-
ple automatically go to race and 
don’t consider things like socio-
economic status or religion.”
 People like to look at things 
labeled "diverse," especially Ga-
torship, and think, “Oh, I don’t 
ﬁ  t into this.” But you don’t have 
to. That’s the point. And you deﬁ  nitely don’t have to ﬁ  t into a certain identity to learn about it.
It’s all very relative. “You 
have identities, and those identities are rel-evant to the world around you, regardless of where you fall,” Mazzeo added. “And it’s imperative that you learn about those things that are associated with your identi-ties, but also the identities of those around you.”
And by doing that, we create more in-
clusive and altogether better communities. When you leave college, you want to leave with connections, but what if those connec-tions could be deeper and more real?
That’s the gift of Gatorship. You’ll leave 
ﬁ  nger wagging — go if you want to know 
what that is — but you’ll also take real 
friends with you. You’ll be able to think with a broader perspective and relate to people you never knew you could. It will 
show from the programs and events you 
create to your interviews and business pres-
ence. 
Gatorship helps you think greater and do 
better. It makes you into a leader who is 
thoughtful and bold, conﬁ  dent in yourself 
and able to make a positive impact.
Everyone thinks you cry at Gatorship, 
and maybe you will — or maybe you just 
have no soul. Kidding.
Through tears of laughter or surprise at 
ﬁ  nding a buried hurt, Gatorship will force you to face topics that are at times difﬁ  cult so you can address them comfortably when they unleash you back onto campus. 
Applications are open now until Oct. 21, 
and you can ﬁ  nd them on the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs website at multicultur-al.uﬂ  .edu/programs/gatorship/application. 
I can’t promise you won’t cry, but I can 
promise you won’t regret it. 
Brooke Henderson is a UF journalism 
and international studies sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays. Time. What a word. Loved 
and hated, used as an ex-cuse and seen as a vice. 
Time is difﬁ  cult to fully 
understand. How often 
do we say we wish we could alter time? We make mistakes, 
and we wish we could go back 
and stop ourselves from doing so. We have something excit-ing coming up, and we wish we could skip everything from now until 
then. Why do we do this? Why can’t we 
just enjoy the present? Well, dear readers, probably because the present is not all that pleasant most of the time.  
So many people, particularly college 
students, struggle with the art of time management. Between academics, extra-curricular involvement, social obligations, Greek life and personal time, we are often 
stressed.  We cry, “There aren’t enough 
hours in the day!” We forgo sleep or relax-ation to complete tasks. Rather than turn to sleep or healthy outlets when we have 
a free moment, binge drinking and other 
assorted irresponsible behaviors are used to ﬁ  ll the void. 
How can we ﬁ  x this? The easy answer 
is “do less,” but this is probably not fea-
sible. Everything we do means a lot to us. 
We wouldn’t do it if it didn’t. Regardless, there is a ﬁ  ne line between just enough and too much on our plates. With this 
in mind, it is important to remember the 
most important thing is your personal health and state of mind, not your dead-lines or commitments. I can’t pretend I don’t forget this sometimes, but I have a 
few tips for myself for when the going gets 
tough.
First, prioritize. If that assignment isn’t 
due for two weeks, and it will only take a 
couple of hours, stop stressing about it. If 
that event isn’t mandatory, and you have an exam tomorrow, stay home and study. If you’re sick and need to rest, don’t wor-ry about that thing you were supposed 
to have done but could probably wait a 
day. Nothing is more important than your health. Plus, you’ll do a better job when you’re back in normal working order. 
Secondly, try to spend less 
time doing things that waste your precious time. I’m not say-ing stop having fun. I’m saying 
stop spending six hours a day 
on Facebook. Stop spending so much time thinking and stress-ing about what you should be 
doing, and instead make like Shia LeB-
eouf — just do it. You’ll be amazed by 
how much extra time you’ll have on your hands.
Finally, try to enjoy your life. If you 
don’t, there’s no point. Now I’m not en-dorsing your lifelong dream to just give up, drop out and spend your days lying in bed watching reality TV. However, if 
what you are doing does not make you 
happy, then don’t do it. Being productive and hating it is worse than doing nothing 
at all. You don’t owe anything to anyone. 
This is your life and your time. Do what will make you feel the happiest and most fulﬁ  lled. 
Suddenly, your commitments may stop 
feeling so much like chores. I hope you wake up every day excited to take on the tasks you’ve set for yourself. If not, you can change it. You’re not stuck. Keep a 
balance. Take care of yourself. Most im-
portantly, love your life. You deserve it. 
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF psychology 
and journalism sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.What's so special about Gatorship? Prioritize, capitalize and enjoy: It's 
your time, so make it what you want.Column Column
Brooke
Henderson
opinions@alligator.org
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
“If what you are doing 
does not make you 
happy, then don't do it. 
Being productive and 
hating it is worse than 
doing nothing at all.”8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016
yellow halos, his drawings always 
include a motivational quote and aim to inspire.
It’s a way to relax before a day 
full of sweat and exercise. Each 
drawing is a reflection of his style 
of art and functions as a way for him to connect his two passions. When the drawing is done, the 
day begins.
Monday through Friday, Vi-
sionary CrossFit hosts eight class-
es a day. They begin on the hour every hour, and Jesus Martinez 
takes a break during lunchtime.
Every day, a new elaborate 
drawing made with marker works 
its way across the board as the sun 
rises. The drawings incorporate 
the workouts he thinks up and an inspirational quote.
Then at night he erases them.“It’s just some time for me to 
be alone and think about stuff,” Jesus Martinez said. “Then when I wipe it down, it reminds me it’s not permanent. We’re only here 
for a short amount of time, and 
stuff isn’t really that important.”Despite difficulties finding a 
committed consumer base to bal-ance out the money they dumped into the longshot venture, the cou-ple says they don’t regret a thing.
Jesus Martinez said in the past 
month, they’ve seen classes grow at a previously unheard-of rate. They now have about 50 clients who are committed to member-
ship.
For them, it’s a testament to 
how they have been able to assim-
ilate into the city and set their own 
trends in the process. After their 
first year, they figured opening Vi-sionary was a mistake. 
But lately, they feel grateful.“We had a vision,” Jesus Mar-
tinez said. “And we said, ‘We’re gonna put all of our eggs in this one basket because we believe in it.’”
•   •   •
For both the Martinezes, it’s 
about transformation.
Just a few years ago, Jesus 
Martinez felt overweight and wanted a change. In many ways, his health was a work of art in progress.
“I used to be obese,” he said. “I 
was close to 300 pounds. I wanted to make a change. I wasn’t happy with my health, so I walked into a gym and met a coach that was 
coaching CrossFit. I started doing 
it, and I lost close to 100 pounds in a year. It was really transforma-tional for me. I never worked out 
or played sports or anything, so I 
fell in love with it. I fell in love with the transformational aspects of it and what it can do for you.”
In 2013, he became a certified 
coach, using his experience to shape others’ bodies into some-
thing they could be proud of.
Carrie Martinez said Gainesville 
is the perfect place for creative 
people like her and her husband to grow, and she loves that their 
gym is located in the thick of the 
burgeoning arts district. Her sunlit studio faces historic North Main Street and is full of paint, can-
vases and her completed works 
of art.
From a blacklight gallery that 
includes 3-D glasses so the art pops off the wall to the chande-
liers made from recycled water 
bottles hanging from the ceiling in the weight room, Carrie Martinez and her husband seek out art that 
shows transformation.
They create their own, but they 
also feature work from their favor-
ite inspirations. The couple walks around their space and points out 
the different pieces, finishing each 
other’s sentences. They said they love showing off the designs and telling the story behind each piece 
and artist featured at their mecca 
of fitness and culture.
At this point, Jesus Martinez 
said sees his own clients as works of art.
“I’m molding them physically 
and mentally, and they’re turning into pieces of art,” he said.
Jesus and Carrie Martinez work 
to build relationships with every client who walks in their door. He gives the regulars nicknames, and she even has some of them model for her paintings.
Last year, as a part of Gaines-
ville’s 352Walls project, the couple painted a mural on the side of High Dive in downtown Gainesville. The wall depicts an 
enchanted woman holding an orb, 
but the inspiration for the woman in the painting works out at the gym. Her name is Stephanie.
Their very first client, UF stu-
dent Mariah Justice, now works as a coach there.
The history and economics se-
nior said she joined the gym be-
cause she loved the atmosphere, 
and it’s where she realized she wanted to take her skills as a CrossFit athlete to the next level.
She said that although she 
graduates in May, she wants to stick around Gainesville because she couldn’t imagine not being at Visionary.
It’s home, she said.“I could literally not say a sin-
gle bad thing about Jesus and Car-rie,” she said. “They are the most kind, gentle people I have ever 
met. I talk to them about every-
thing, and Visionary is my home away from home.”
It’s not just art. It’s not just 
CrossFit. It’s the life that Jesus and Carrie Martinez have built for themselves in Gainesville and hope to continue for years to come.
“We’re just trying to create a 
space for creative, like-minded people to get together,” Jesus Martinez said. “We want a broad-
er audience. CrossFit can be kind 
of cookie-cutter sometimes. When we set this up, I wanted it to ap-peal to students, to mom-and-pop locals, everyday people who want 
to do CrossFit.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.orgCROSSFIT,  from pg. 1For the couple that owns the gym, it’s about transformation
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff 
Jesus Martinez, an owner of Visionary CrossFit, talks about the 
concept behind his gym. He said he and his wife are both artists, and he owned a gym in California. They “combined their talents” and formed Visionary CrossFit. 
Photos By T aylor Cook, Alligator Staff 
Above: Denise Guerin, who runs a class at Visionary CrossFit, teaches her students in the vibrant outdoor gym in the afternoon.
Left: Visionary CrossFit, located at 716 N. Main St., has many murals on the exterior of the building, as 
well as portraits hanging inside, and functions an art gallery in addition to a gym.that attitude and pull together for 
Haiti.”
He said he continues to talk to 
his family in their WhatsApp group 
chat every day. 
“My family is lucky, and so am 
I,” he said. “Now they’re all wor-
ried about me.”
On Tuesday night, Extreme 
Dance Company at UF is hosting a 
fundraiser at Dough Religion Pizza 
to raise money for hurricane relief 
in Haiti, said Brittany Baker, the group’s president.
“My family is from Palm Beach 
County, and the hurricane was 
supposed to hit them directly,” the 
UF applied physiology and kinesi-ology senior said. “Everyone back home is so relieved that nothing happened, but I started looking into places that were affected, and Haiti came up.”
She said the severity of the situ-
ation inspired her to do something.
“The ﬁ  rst time I looked, the 
death toll was around 200,” she said. “The next morning, it was over 800. I kind of felt like we needed to do something about it. Our company has gotten sig-niﬁ  cantly bigger over the last few years, and we’re really trying to fo-cus on service. 
“This felt like the perfect oppor-
tunity to give back to people who desperately need it.” 
If customers mention the dance 
group at the register, a portion of proceeds will be automatically 
donated to Partners for Health, a 
charity that will send hurricane re-
lief to Haiti. 
Dave Scott, Dough Religion’s 
general manager, said the restau-
rant hosts fundraisers two to three 
times a week during the school 
year. 
“We’re graciously and very hap-
pily hosting this event for them,” Scott said. “One thing we take a lot of pride in is being part of the community here in Gainesville, and we’re more than happy to help out.”
mdonovan@alligator.org 
josmond@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
advertising@alligator.org352−376−4482
MASSACHUSETTS . . . 09 /02
KENTUCKY . . . . . . . . 09 /09
NORTH TEXAS . . . . . 09 /16 
LSU . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10/07
MISSOURI . . . . . . . . . 10/14
GEORGIA . . . . . . . . . . 10/28  
SOUTH CAROLINA . . . 11/10
PRESBYTERIAN . . . . 11/18
SEC CHAMPIONSHIP . . 12/02
CONTACT YOUR SALES REP!ADVERTISE IN  
THE ALLIGATOR’S 2016  
FOOTBALL EDITIONS15%AND
SAVEKICK OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUMRUN 5 OUT OF 9 DATES
KICK
 OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
 BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
GPD WAS TOLD NOT TO 
ALLOW RESIDENTS TO STAY.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested two men Fri-
day for refusing to evacuate Dignity Village 
during Hurricane Matthew.
At about noon Friday, David L. Deegan, 
58, and Paul Cooksey Allen, 53, both of Gainesville, refused to leave the tent city located just outside of the 
Grace Marketplace home-
less shelter, according to a police report. 
Gainesville’s city man-
ager and city attorney had ordered GPD to evacuate Dignity Village during Hur-ricane Matthew, according to the report.
GPD was told not to allow residents to 
stay, even if they refused, according to the report. On Thursday night, 
another ofﬁ  cer had also 
told the two to evacuate 
Dignity Village.
On Friday, police found 
Deegan and Allen in the same tent and asked them at least a dozen times to take shelter in Grace Mar-
ketplace, located at 3055 NE 28 Ave., accord-
ing to the report. When police asked, the 
men responded, “F--- you, get out of here.”Both were removed from the tent and 
forced into a GPD car, according to the re-port. Police arrested them on charges of re-sisting an ofﬁ  cer without violence and vio-lating disaster preparedness and emergency 
management.
Authorities took Deegan and Allen to the 
Alachua County Jail, where they were re-
leased Saturday on their own recognizance.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgMen  arrested after refusing to leave Dignity Village during storm
Charles Hatcher / Alligator 
A storm surge hits Daytona Beach’s Ritchey Plaza during Hurricane Matthew on Friday. Staircases 
leading to the beach and miles of sand dunes along the beach were swept away by the sea.
Local restaurants, ire rescue raising money and sending support
HURRICANE,  from pg. 1Allen
 Deegan
MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   10-12-16-20-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca 
East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly 
remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back 
porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, 
contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2Beautiful 2BR townhouse in Bellamy Forge.  Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, basket-ball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Close to Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277     10-11-16-9-2
Spacious Apartment For Rent-
The Oaks-Spacious one Bedroom apartment 
for rent. Walk to Oaks Mall and Restaurants. 
On Bus-Line.Call 404-323-9338     10-7-4-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edMONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $1999
91 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999
352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-1203 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647     10-7-1-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Designated drivers are the greatestThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 “Stay out of my
affairs,” briefly
5 Briefly, e.g.
11 CFO’s degree
14 Window section
15 Like the sound of
tall grass in the
breeze
16 “__ the 
ramparts ... ”
17 Pizza topping
veggie
19 Dusting cloth20 Slugger __
Harper of theNats
21 Stylish, clothes-
wise
23 Remit25 Traditional filled
fare of Europe
and West Asia
29 Preppy shirt
brand
31 Japanese noodle32 Replaceable
joint
33 Much-
photographedevening event
36 Showroom
model
38 Salad staples
43 Unexpected
obstacle
44 Revealing, as a
bikini
46 Eye care brand50 Savings vehicles
for later yrs.
52 Copied
53 Baked-in-their-
shells seafooddish
57 NFL scores
58 Car body style59 Saltwater candy61 Covert __: secret
missions
62 Down payment ...
and what 17-, 
25-, 38- and 53-Across have incommon(besides beingfood)
68 Sara of baking69 Band on the road70 Franc
replacement
71 Oral health org.
72 Emphasize73 French stateDOWN
1 Fuel efficiency no.
2 Pirate’s cry3 Singly4 Bar pint contents5 Pet adoption org.
6 Nerdy types
7 BMOC, for one8 Sixth sense, for
short
9 MLB scoreboard
letters
10 “In Treatment”
star Gabriel __
11 Salt brand with
an umbrella girl
12 Fab Four member13 Socks pattern18 Metropolis served
by JFK and LGA
22 Noah’s project23 Circle ratios24 Blue, in Baja26 Spanish
groceries
27 Adam’s second
son
28 Fun and __30 Mar.-to-Nov. hrs.34 UFO pilots,
presumably
35 Belted Forum
garment
37 Wine barrel wood
39 Siena sweetheart40 Through, in
itineraries
41 Remove
everything from,as a fridge
42 Zoomed45 NFL gains46 Coke competitor47 Snuck out to get
hitched
48 Queasy feeling49 Strike caller51 Abs strengtheners54 Religious factions55 Neck areas
brushed bybarbers
56 Not working today60 At no cost63 Museum display64 Fem. campus
group
65 Shade of color66 Org. for
marksmen
67 Tyke
By Joel Mackerry
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/10/1610/10/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, October 10, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     10-11-16-5-14
LOOKING FOR A CAREER?North Florida Retirement Village is holding a Career Fair on Oct. 13th from 9:30am – 12:30pm.  We are hiring for FT, PT, and PRN positions!  We are seeking:  ● Nurses (RN & LPN)● Assisted Living & Home Care CNAs● Companions● Servers/Kitchen Porters● Cooks● Sous Chefs● Security Guards● Transportation Drivers● Painters Come out to our Career Fair to learn more about our employment opportunities.  We are 
located at 8000 NW 27th Blvd. Gainesville, FL. 32606. Security Guards will direct visi-
tors once on campus. Please apply online at www.thevillageonline.com/careers.    10-13-16-6-14
SALES - calling on campus departments 
and GREEK Houses. Recieve 10% com-mission selling logo merchandise w our catalogs & website 330 886 8398 PromoProductsASAP@gmail.com    10-7-16-2-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?
Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
FREE RIDE FOR CO-DRIVER
to Wrightsville Beach, N.C. or other point en 
route. Leave Gville Oct 13, return Oct 16. 
Call 352-294-3937, leave message.    10-
11-5-23Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SMALL BLACK DOG MISSINGLOST ON SW 20TH AVENUE IN KENSINGTON NORTHBLACK SHIHTZUPLEASE CALL 352-213-1694 WITH INFO    10-13-16-5-25
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!
52 Pills for Only $99.00
Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.
Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.
Call now 1-800- 224-0305      10-7-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
1. In 2015, Edwin Encarnacion tied 
a Blue Jays record with nine RBIs in a 
game. Who else held the mark?
2. Who holds the major-league 
record for homering from both sides of the plate in the same game the most times in a career?
3. How many of Brett Favre’s 20 
NFL seasons were spent with the 
Green Bay Packers?
4. When was the last time before 
2015 (Kentucky) that UCLA’s men’s 
basketball team beat the nation’s No. 1 ranked team?
5. In 2016, Pittsburgh’s Matt Murray 
tied an NHL record for most wins by a rookie goaltender in the postseason (15). Who else holds the record?
6. Who was the last NASCAR driver 
before Matt Kenseth (2015-16) to win consecutive Cup races at New Hamp-
shire?
7. Name the male tennis player who 
is the only five-time winner of the 
Queen’s Club Championships, a year -
ly warm-up event for Wimbledon.
Answers
1. Roy Howell had nine RBIs in a 
game in 1977.
2. Mark Teixeira and Nick Swisher, 
with 14 each.
3. Sixteen of Favre’s 20 NFL sea-
sons were with the Packers.
4. It was 2003, when the Bruins beat 
top-ranked Arizona.
5. Patrick Roy (1986), Ron Hextall 
(1987) and Cam Ward (2006).
6. Kurt Busch, in 2004.
7. Andy Murray, who won in 2009, 
‘11, ‘13, ‘15 and ‘16.
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 10, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Savannah Jordan and the UF 
women's soccer team defeated Ole Miss 3-0 on Sunday.Read the story on pg. 15.Former Florida football player has productive outing
Former Florida tight end Jordan Reed had eight catches for 53 yards in the 
Washington Redskins' 16-10 win over the Baltimore Ravens on Sunday. Reed leads Washington with 25 receptions and 263 receiving yards this season.MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Only one Gator remembers Florida’s trip to 
the 2014 Final Four first-hand. 
Point guard Kasey Hill was a freshman that 
first time in Arlington, Texas. He scored seven 
points in 15 minutes in the loss to Connecticut. 
Three years later, he’s the last remaining 
Florida player to have scored in an NCAA Tour-nament. 
Florida’s two-year March Madness drought 
has been the dominant preseason storyline. 
As a senior, Kasey Hill is doing everything 
he can to make it back, taking on a leadership role while also taking steps to fine tune his own game. 
“You’d expect your seniors to play with a 
little bit more poise and to be able to utilize that experience that they have in a positive way,” second-year coach Mike White said on Thurs-day. “Expect that from Kasey.”
Hill said that big-game experience will help 
him lead the team’s freshmen and sophomores in high-pressure situations. 
“It’ll start by my body language first,” Hill 
said. “I can’t let bad body language show in those situations. The younger guys are look-ing at me, and I got my head down. And that’s something I need to work on when things get hard for us.”For senior Kasey Hill, now is the time to lead 
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer 
With the No. 11 Florida vol-
leyball team up 18-12 in the third set and holding a commanding 2-0 lead against Southeastern Confer-ence rival South Carolina, all it needed was sound play to close out the rest of the match.After a Florida serve, a slew 
of Gamecocks swarmed the ball, sending it high in the air before it fell nearly on top of the net, where anyone could play it.
That’s when Florida junior 
middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan locked eyes on the ball, slapping it perfectly into the left front zone, where no defender could get to it.That proved to be an ongoing 
theme for the Gators (14-2, 4-1 SEC), who used their size and experience to throttle a slumping South Carolina (13-4, 1-4 SEC) in three-straight sets.
“We set the tone for the match 
with aggressive serving and qual-ity blocking,” coach Mary Wise said in a release.  The rotation of freshman Ra-
chael Kramer and Alhassan in the middle worked to full effect, as both had a prominent role on both offense and defense. The first set saw Kramer hold down the mid-dle, where she contributed to five blocks and three kills. She ended the game with eight kills and a .636 hitting percentage.Then, after a first set in which 
the Gators dominated, Alhassan took over the middle of the court. She was involved in six blocks over the match, more than half of the team’s 11 total. The veteran trio of Alhassan, junior Carli Sny-der and senior Alex Holston began to dismantle the Gamecocks's de-
Florida uses physical play to dismantle South Carolina By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
For a year that began with so much 
promise, the 2015-16 season ended 
on a sour note for the Florida Gators women’s basketball team.
After being 
ranked for the first time since 2009, then No. 5-seed UF 
crashed in the 2016 
NCAA Tournament, 
bowing out to No. 
12-seed Albany in 
the opening round of play. 
“We did have a great year last 
year, but it came to a bankrupt end,” coach Amanda Butler said. “It ended way sooner than we had hoped, and it 
wasn’t for any physical reasons. 
“It wasn’t for lack of talent or lack 
of skill. It was just some areas where 
we had some mental breakdowns.”
This season, the Gators will be 
looking to rediscover their form, a lev-el of play that yielded UF's best regular season record since 2008-09.
However, they’ll attempt it without 
some familiar faces.
Five seniors — four of whom were 
guards — graduated, thinning the team’s depth. 
Senior guard Simone Westbrook, 
the squad’s defensive leader, tore her right ACL in August, jeopardizing her season. 
With these questions and more sur-
rounding Florida, Butler has resorted to unconventional practice techniques Season-
ending loss still fresh for Gators
FLORIDA 3, SOUTH CAROLINA 0Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kasey Hill, left, talks with John Egbunu during Florida's win against North Carolina A&T last season. Hill wants to be more of a leader.
Butler
He played in the 2014 Final Four
SEE HILL,  PAGE 14 SEE WOMEN'S HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
It was all over when the sound of the final 
buzzer rang out across the Charles E. Smith 
Center. 
The Gators’ 2015-16 season came to an 
end with a five-point loss to George Wash-
ington in the National Invitation Tourna-
ment.
And with the loss, Florida had to say fare-
well to its leader, its rock from the past two 
seasons — former All-Southeastern Confer-
ence player Dorian Finney-Smith.Finney-Smith had been through a lot with 
this team: a Southeastern Conference Cham-pionship, a trip to the Final Four, a brand-
new coach and two stressful seasons where 
the Gators failed to advance to the NCAA Tournament. 
And just like that, Finney-Smith’s journey 
with the Gators came to its end.
“We lose a really good player in Dorian 
Finney-Smith, who was a glue guy for us,” UF coach Mike White said on Thursday. “(He) could pass, dribble, shoot it. The 
whole deal.”
But, with one chapter of Gator basketball closed, so begins a new chapter.
Its main character? Undecided.
Florida enters the 2016-2017 season with 
uncertainty. The Gators are unsure who will fill the void left by Finney-Smith, a player who led the team in points per game (14.7), threes made (71) and rebounds per game (8.3) a year ago.
Forward Devin Robinson, who withdrew 
his name from the 2016 NBA Draft due to the discovery of a stress fracture in his left foot, is a possibility.
The 6-foot-8 junior went on a shooting 
spree to cap last season. In SEC play, Rob-inson shot a blistering 47.8 percent from be-yond the arc and went on a 17-for-32 run during an eight-game stretch.
White said Robinson did extensive work 
on his shooting in the offseason and added that Robinson is “shooting as well as he’s ever seen him shoot.”
“(Coach White) just wants me to fill in 
and do as best as I can to help the team win,” Robinson said. “Whatever it takes.”
Or maybe the answer lies with a transfer.Canyon Barry came to Florida via the Col-
lege of Charleston, where he averaged 19.7 points and 3.4 rebounds per game last sea-son and was rated the No. 1 graduate trans-fer in the country.
Barry, the son of NBA Hall-of-Famer Rick 
Barry, brings a wide set of offensive skills to an offensively starved Florida team, includ-ing a smooth stroke from the perimeter, pure free-throw shooting and a crafty ability to at-tack the basket.
But the biggest attribute this 6-foot-6, 
215-pound nuclear engineering student brings is his high IQ.
“He’s a quick thinker,” White said of Bar-
ry. “Kind of sees things before he catches the ball. … He’s very experienced.”
Or maybe the answer lies with one of 
Florida’s freshmen.
Keith Stone wasn’t ready to play last sea-
son, but after a year dedicated to refining his body and skills, the 6-foot-8, 240-pound red-shirt freshman may be ready to contribute.
He’s inexperienced, but with his soft 
touch from the perimeter and ability to score in the paint, Stone will most certainly chal-lenge for minutes at the forward spot.
“I learned a lot of tips from Dorian,” 
Stone said. “I'm just trying to do what coach tells me to do and learn from what Dorian taught me.”
For now, Florida’s future in the frontcourt 
is cloudy, and coach White needs someone to clear it up.
“When we talk about leadership as a 
staff, we don’t have one guy that just really sticks out,” White said. 
“I think the best teams, if you have 13 
scholarship guys, what you really want is 13 leaders. That’s a little bit unrealistic, but the best teams have a few leaders.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org
Filling the void: Who will take the reigns as UF's scorer?
Alligator File Photo 
Florida's Devin Robinson (3) attempts a jumpshot while guarded by Kentucky's Isaiah 
Briscoe (13) during UF's 88-79 loss to UK on March 1 in the O'Connell Center.
Hill emphasized mental toughness. And he 
said he learned the importance of being a com-petitor from that Final Four team. 
“The first team with Pat (Young), Casey 
(Prather), Scottie (Wilbekin),” Hill said. “Scottie, he was a crazy competitor. That was one thing I learned from him, that you gotta compete every possession. Every practice, workout, everything.”
Hill even spent his summer vacation hang-
ing out with D’Angelo Russell of the Los Ange-les Lakers. Hill went to visit him in LA, since the two played in high school together at Montverde Academy in Lake County. 
But when back in Florida, Hill spent plenty of 
time working in the gym on his jump shot. Shoot-ing has long been the knock on the senior, who shot under 30 percent from three and 54 percent from the free-throw line last season. 
“My whole life, people have labeled me as 
‘not a shooter,’” Hill said.
But White said Hill’s reinvented his shot over the offseason. 
Even while learning a new stroke, Hill knows 
he has to set the tempo. He said creating a com-
petitive practice environment makes everyone 
better. 
“We can’t be out there playing buddy-buddy 
ball, or trying to look out for our teammates. We gotta actually like go at each other,” Hill said. 
“And then after practice, we’re friends again.”
His teammates have noticed too. 
Forward Justin Leon said Hill would win a 
team-wide one-on-one tournament.  
“I think Kasey would probably come out on 
top. His offensive ability to drive the ball is re-
ally good,” Leon said. “He’s been working on his 
shot, all that.”
Hill, a constant competitor, agreed with hints 
of playful humility.
“If we had a dribble limit,” Hill said, “I like 
my chances.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgHILL,  from pg 13Hill spent time with the Lakers' 
D'Angelo Russell this summer
Ian Cohen / Alligator Staff
Coach Mike White calls out instructions during Florida's 72-66 loss to T exas 
A&M on March 11 during the SEC T ournament. Florida went 21-15 under White.
REPLACING DORIAN
Dorian Finney-Smith is gone, and with him went the 14.7 points and 8.3 rebounds per game he supplied for the Gators last season. With a wealth of unproven players and talented wings on its roster, who will replace Finney-Smith as Florida’s go-to scorer?
Here are the leading candidates and their 
stats last season:
Canyon Barry / guard / graduate transfer
19.7 points, 3.4 rebounds, 40.2 FG percentage
Devin Robinson / forward / junior
9.0 points, 5.6 rebounds, 45.8 FG percentage
KeVaughn Allen / guard / sophomore
11.6 points, 2.7 rebounds, 39.9 FG percentage
Keith Stone / forward / redshirt 
freshmanRedshirted last season to work on his game and gain strength. Rated a four-star ESPN prospect.MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
IT WAS FLORIDA'S FOURTH 
WIN IN A ROW. 
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Savannah Jordan jockeyed for position 
deep in the penalty box as she watched Sa-
mantha Chung blast the ball toward her from about 20 yards away.
The three-time All-American played 
Chung’s cross well, absorbing it with her 
body before dribbling to her right. There, 
Jordan struck an off-balance shot that barely snuck by Ole Miss goalkeeper Marnie Mer-ritt.
The goal gave No. 16 Florida (10-3, 5-2 
Southeastern Conference) a lead just seven minutes into the match, setting the tone for what would eventually be a 3-0 victory over the unranked Rebels (8-7, 3-4 SEC) on Sun-
day night in Oxford.
Jordan led the way for UF with two goals, 
increasing her career total to 77 and her sea-
son total to 12. The senior forward has been one of the conference’s top offensive threats 
this fall, entering the weekend ranked sec-
ond in both goals and points scored.After a header from senior midfielder Pa-
mela Begic gave the Gators a 2-0 lead in the 
40th minute, Jordan helped the Gators pull away at the start of the second half.
In the 59th minute, Jordan slipped past a 
pair of Rebel defenders and received an un-contested pass from senior midfielder Meg-gie Dougherty-Howard. Jordan corralled the ball deep in the box, easily kicking it past a diving Merritt to seal the victory for Florida.
Defensively, UF held its opponent score-
less for the third time in its last four games.
Florida limited Ole Miss to only four shots 
all night, and sophomore goalkeeper Kay-lan Marckese made two saves for her fourth shutout of 2016. The Gators also wore down the Rebels with their physicality by commit-ting eight fouls, including five in the first half.
Next up, UF travels to Columbia on Sun-
day to face the No. 4 South Carolina Game-cocks (13-0-1, 7-0 SEC) at 3 p.m. Junior forward Savannah McCaskill is a player to watch for the Gamecocks, as she led the SEC in goals and points scored as of Sunday.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgLed by Jordan and defense, Florida soccer blanks Ole Miss 
in an effort to gain an edge over 
the competition. 
“Yeah, the boxing,” she said, “I love talking about that.”
Taking her team from the hard-
wood to the canvas, coach Butler has partnered with Gladden Box-ing Club’s Lee “Coach Milk” Glad-den Jr. for cross-training practices. She watched as her players learned the art of boxing, improving their 
reaction time and footwork in the 
process.
However, the benefits weren’t 
solely physical. 
“If you look at it, everyone is 
doing what we’re doing on the basketball court,” senior forward Ronni Williams said. “Everyone’s working harder because they think 
everyone is working hard. But 
what’s gonna give us that extra boost?
“Are they gonna try and use 
their physical ability, because their physical ability will only take them so far. We have that extra edge by having the mental ability to push, along with our physical ability.”
Taking punches from team-
mates may be an unorthodox manner of breeding that extra edge, but the resulting tenacity has trickled down throughout the roster.
The team looked forward to 
those early Friday mornings. In conjunction with Butler’s sched-
uled meditation sessions, the 
Gators — months removed from a season-ending meltdown — now consider mental toughness a strength. 
And they’re looking to carve 
their identity around it. 
Despite Westbrook’s absence, 
Florida’s defense will dictate its 
image.
And much like it did in the ring, 
UF’s newfound mental strength 
will help it roll with the punches. 
“We went in there ready to 
fight,” Williams said. 
“Throw us in the fire, we’re 
ready to battle, we’re ready to 
fight. That’s just how it is.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgWOMEN'S HOOPS,  from pg 13Players boxed during the offseason
fense.
Leading the nation in hitting 
percentage (.336), the Gators con-tinued to showcase their offensive prowess. The three combined for 28 of the team's 38 kills. 
The Gamecocks were also un-
able to find consistency on de-fense.
South Carolina committed 25 
total errors and could only mus-ter a .030 hitting percentage, the third-lowest opponent hitting per-centage allowed by the Gators this year.
The Gamecocks’ leading at-
tacker, freshman Mikayla Shields, 
had trouble getting anything go-
ing, managing only five kills after 
averaging nearly three per set.
“A lot of credit to our players, 
Wise said. “Both front row and back row.”
The Gators get a short rest at 
home before heading back on the 
road to Baton Rouge to face the LSU Tigers on Friday. 
@skylerlebron
slebron@alligator.orgVOLLEY,  from pg 13UF leads the nation in 
hitting percentage (.336)Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan (1) looks to make a block in UF's win over Jacksonville.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Senior Ronni Williams (center) thinks the Gators' mental and 
physical toughness will help them this season. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan dribbles the ball during her team's 5-2 win over Iowa State on  
Aug. 19 at James G. Pressly Stadium.
16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2016
THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
Thursday
• Swimming and Diving @ Florida State
Friday
• Women’s golf @ Stanford Intercollegiate
• Volleyball @ LSU, 8 p.m. on SEC Network+
Saturday
• Football vs. Missouri, 4 p.m. on SEC Network
• Cross Country @ NCAA Pre-Nationals
• Women’s golf @ Stanford Intercollegiate, all day
Sunday
• Soccer @ South Carolina, 3 p.m. on SEC 
Network
• Men’s golf @ T avistock Collegiate, all day
• Women’s golf @ Stanford Intercollegiate, all day
• Volleyball @ T exas A&M, 5 p.m. on SEC Network
 Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain (left) talks with offensive lineman Martez Ivey (73) during Florida’s 38-28 loss to T ennessee on Sept. 24 at Neyland Stadium. 
TAKING TO TWITTER
With Florida’s football game against LSU postponed, many UF players took to Twitter to share their thoughts. 
Some, like running back Jordan Scarlett, laughed at the notion that the Gators were scared to face LSU. Others, like defensive lineman Caleb Brantley, took the opportunity to put the potential power of a hurricane into perspective. 
