We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 130 THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016
Appleby familiar with 
Florida’s oﬀ  ense
The quarterback transferred
from Purdue, pg. 17
Students collect supplies for Syrian refugees
Collections will continue through Friday on the Plaza of the Americas, pg. 3
Instagram announces new video feature
UF students react to the app, pg. 5Check out the Avenue
Hip-hop Roundup, yoga, laser show and an art festival, pgs. 8-13
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Trevor Noah watched as interpreters 
for the hearing impaired translated every-
thing he said at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Wednesday night.
“I am Trevor,” he said, watching the 
translators. “You know what, I’m not even going to sign this stand-up for you. I’m just gonna sign my own jokes.”
Noah, a stand-up comedian and host of 
“The Daily Show,” performed a stand-up act and answered questions from Accent Speakers Bureau Chairperson Kevin Ger-son in front of a crowd of more than 1,700 people. He was paid $90,000.
Noah, who was born and raised in 
South Africa, took jabs at the presidential candidates and joked about the lingo in America and discovering tacos.
Noah said he dreamed about attending 
an American university like he would see in the movies.
“And then I saw how much you pay, 
and I was like ‘It’s ﬁ  ne,’” he said.
He told a story about when he was 
with his friend who invited him to eat ta-
cos from a taco truck, which was a new 
discovery for him. The vendor offered him a napkin, which means “baby’s diaper” in his home country. He refused the taco, thinking it would be served with a diaper.
“Now I love tacos, by the way,” he 
said.
Noah also tackled racism, an issue he 
said is hard to talk about but needs to be 
discussed.
“There’s nothing wrong with saying 
‘black’ because there’s nothing wrong Trevor Noah talks racism, tacos
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
When Mikaela Case woke up 
Monday morning, she had a voice-
mail message from Gainesville Po-lice.
GPD found her mom in her car, idling on the road, the 22-year-old UF graduate recalls. She had been 
sent to UF Health Shands Hospital 
after suffering a stroke. 
Now, she’s raising money to 
help her mom.
“I was more shocked than any-
thing,” said Case, who graduated from UF last semester. “I just want-ed to know more than anything that 
my mother was okay.”
      
After coming up to Gainesville 
to spend Easter Sunday with her, 
Case’s mom, Elizabeth White Case, got up late at night to move her car.
Mikaela woke up to ﬁ  nd her 
mother missing.
After listening to the voicemail, 
she rushed over to the hospital, where she found her mother in an intensive care unit on the eighth ﬂ  oor of the hospital.
At age 65, her mother had suf-
fered from a stroke. Case said the right side of her mother’s body is paralyzed and she suffers from speech impediments.
Her grandma, Joyce Bramlett, 
said she was taken aback when she found out.
“It’s a real shock to me. She had 
none of the prerequisites for having a stroke,” Bramlett said, adding that her daughter was athletic.
Case started a GoFundMe page 
at gofundme.com/helpbethrecover on Monday to help pay for the med-UF alumna asks for aid after mother suffers stroke By Alyssa Weiss
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium is becoming 
more environmentally friendly.
In 2013, the Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability com-
posted about 25 tons of material, said Al-
lison Vitt, the ofﬁ  ce’s outreach and com-munications coordinator. This past football season, that number jumped to almost 31 
tons.
The Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability began com-
posting waste from UF’s football games in 
2013, she said. 
When composting, organic materials, 
such as leftover food and paper products, 
are turned into fertilizer.  
The fertilizer is used for the stadium’s 
grass, said Liz Storn, the ofﬁ  ce’s program 
coordinator. Two companies work with the University Athletic Association to take waste from the stadium to compost into fertilizer.
Vitt said the ofﬁ  ce has expanded com-
posting to include paper towels in UF’s bath-rooms and food in the dining halls. This is added to the compost collected at the sta-dium.
“It’s gradual, but you get to a point where 
it suddenly becomes the norm, and then it really becomes part of campus culture,” Vitt said.
Shelby Lublin, a UF exploratory fresh-
man, said she didn’t know UF composted but would like to try composting herself.
“If I had the education on what exactly 
composting is, I would deﬁ  nitely see if it’s 
something I can do myself,” the 19-year-old 
said.  Composting 
increases at The Swamp
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Trevor Noah, the host of Comedy Central’s “The Daily Show, ” performs at the Phil-
lips Center for the Performing Arts on Wednesday night.
 SEE NOAH,  PAGE 4
SEE STROKE,  PAGE 4A GoFundMe is set up for her momCAMPUS
“There’s nothing wrong with saying 
‘black’ because there’s nothing wrong 
with being black. Don’t worry about 
seeming racist; worry about being 
racist.”
Trevor Noah
“The Daily Show” hostSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
#SweatForSTF Relay Race on 
Thursday
Prepare to sweat for a whole new cause. Enjoy a good workout while supporting 
girls’ education during She’s 
the First UF’s second annual #SweatForSTF Relay Race on Thursday from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. at Norman Field. Each member of the team who completes the relay in the shortest amount of time will be awarded a gift card. Be part of a national campaign 
to help promote gender equal-
ity and raise funds to sponsor girls’ education in developing countries by registering with your peers. For more informa-tion, visit bit.ly/1DBAiXz or email STF UF at shesthefir-stuf@gmail.com.
East and West, Cuban and 
American: The Foods of HomeOn Thursday at 5:30 p.m. on the third floor of Smathers Library, Ruth Behar from the department of anthropology at the University of Michigan will discuss the Jewish cuisines of 
East and West, of Islamic and 
Christian Europe, and their gradual fusion as her family moved from Cuba to the U.S. That journey continues to un-fold as she now travels back and forth to Cuba to connect with the island and its revital-ized Jewish community and 
evolving arts and gourmet food 
culture. She will talk about the many meanings of the foods of home — emotional, cultural, economic, religious and po-litical — in hopes of illuminat-ing a complex Cuban-Jewish search for a sense of belonging in the world. Sponsored by the 
Isser and Rae Price Library of 
Judaica.
UF Entrepreneurship and 
Innovation CenterCome learn about, share and celebrate the empowering po-tential of women’s entrepre-neurship!
The UF Entrepreneurship and 
Innovation Center proudly in-vites all students, staff and faculty to attend the 2016 Women’s Entrepreneurship Symposium.It will feature speakers and panels with a keynote pre-sentation by UF alumna 
Kathy Fields, the founder of 
Proactiv and, more recently, of Rodan+Fields. Other partici-pants include Kim Kaupe, a co-founder of ZinePak; Leah Lytle, the founder of Artsy Abode; Allison Adams, the founder of the Oxford Exchange; and Anne Stokes, the founder of Search.The symposium will take place Friday at 9 a.m. in the University Auditorium.
Note: This event is only open to 
UF students, faculty and staff.Participation is free but registra-tion is mandatory. Please RSVP online: eventbrite.com/e/wo-mens-entrepreneurship-sympo-sium-tickets-21021276203.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event be-fore 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events, and keep them to 150 
words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 130
HIGH  86° LOW  64°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
COLLECTIONS WILL CONTINUE 
THROUGH FRIDAY ON THE 
PLAZA OF THE AMERICAS.
By Anayansy Hernandez
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Libertarians collected clothes, 
canned foods and school supplies on the 
Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday.
The group is collecting the supplies for 
15 Syrian refugees living in Jacksonville, Florida.
Collections for new and gently used 
clothes will continue through Friday on the Plaza, said Bela Cunningham, the pres-ident of UF Libertarians.
The group decided to host the drive to 
help Syrian refugees living in Florida, the 
UF graphic design sophomore said.
“A lot of refugees came with next to 
nothing,” the 20-year-old said.
The first day of the drive surpassed the 
group’s expectations, she said. They re-
ceived enough donations to fill one large cardboard box. She hopes to fill six or seven.
Cunningham said UF Libertarians start-
ed planning the event about three weeks ago after receiving a $250 grant from Stu-dents for Liberty, a nonprofit that facili-
tates student leadership and professional 
development.
She hopes to educate students about 
why refugees should be allowed into the 
country, she said. She wants to diminish 
the negative ideas about immigration, such as their being terrorists and destroying the economy.
Becky Richey, a UF international stud-
ies senior, donated costumes from Shake-speare in the Park to the drive.
She said it would show refugees they 
are being socially accepted.
“It shows they are being accepted from 
students and faculty,” the 21-year-old said.
WHAT STUDENTS CAN DONATE:
• Pants
• Shirts
• Sweaters
• Shoes
• School supplies
• Canned foodsTHURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Anayansy Hernandez / Alligator
Becky Richey, a 21-year-old UF international studies senior, donated costumes from 
Shakespeare in the Park to Syrian refugees living in Jacksonville, Florida. The UF Lib-ertarians collected donations on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday.
Students collect supplies for 
Syrian refugees in Florida4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested Tuesday after-
noon after police said they found drugs and a gun 
inside his car.
At about 5 p.m., deputies with the Alachua Coun-
ty Sheriff’s Office received a call about a suspicious vehicle parked at a dirt lot in the 4200 block of NW 
97th Blvd., according to an arrest report.
When deputies arrived, they found Randy Irvin 
Williams, 55, seated inside the car, according to the 
report.
Deputies then noticed a methamphetamine pipe 
and a loaded gun lying under the bench seats, ac-cording to the report.
Once inside, they noticed a bag of meth wedged 
between the driver’s seat and passenger’s seat, ac-cording to the report.
Under the driver’s seat, another bag held more meth — along with a spoon, a digital scale and sev-
eral smaller plastic bags, according to the report. The bags weighed about 5.4 grams in total.
Williams told deputies he was 
not licensed to carry the gun, but he was in the process of obtaining 
a permit, according to the report.
When searching Williams, dep-
uties found another meth pipe in his front pocket and $521, accord-
ing to the report.
Police arrested him on charges 
of carrying an unlicensed firearm, 
displaying a firearm while committing a felony, pos-sessing methamphetamine with intent to sell and 
possessing methamphetamine. Authorities took Wil-
liams to the Alachua County Jail, where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $55,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice: bags of meth, loaded gunTHERE WILL BE TWO MORE DAYS 
FOR MISSIONS.
By Joseph Garcia
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students may see more zombies run-
ning around on the weekends.
UF’s Gators Humans vs. Zombies is add-
ing a two-day weekend mission this Spring after players asked for more events, said 
Darby Guyn, the president of the club. The extra mission will be in addition to the club’s five-day main mission each semester.
They hope to have the two-day game 
once a semester, the 20-year-old UF wildlife conservation and ecology junior said.
During each mission, one student starts 
off as the main zombie and tries to turn hu-
mans into zombies by shooting them with a Nerf gun. Students can use the club’s blast-
ers after registering and attending a rules meeting, said Leah Macha, a 19-year-old UF criminology, anthropology and sociology freshman.
Alex Pinchin, a UF digital arts and sci-
ences senior, said he started playing his freshman year.
“I heard about it in high school, and it 
served as a good experience (in college) where I was able to make friends, learn from the game and have a lot of fun,” Pinchin said.
The 22-year-old said he hopes more stu-
dents participate with the new two-day mis-
sion, even if it’s just for a little bit.
“I want more people to check it out and 
get rid of the misconception that you have 
to play the entire time,” Pinchin said. “Try 
it out — it’s fun.”Humans vs. Zombies adds more missions for students 
with being black,” he said. “Don’t 
worry about seeming racist; wor-ry about being racist.”
Gerson asked Noah about his 
start in comedy. Noah said he 
was invited to a comedy show, 
where he just got up and began telling jokes. He felt at home.
“I don’t know what I spoke 
about; I just know the people laughed,” Noah said.  
Noah added that seeing people 
of different genders, skin colors and ethnicities sitting side by side 
in the audience made him hap-
py he went into comedy, which pushes the boundaries of society.
“I am trying to get people to 
think further,” he said. “Let’s talk about the things that you may be afraid to talk about.”
Hannah Herrero, 24, was the 
first person in the line. She ar-rived at 3:15 p.m.
“I really, really wanted to get a 
front-row seat,” the UF geography 
graduate student said. Herrero, 
who knew about Noah before he took over “The Daily Show,” said she enjoyed his humor because he talks about issues in Africa.
“It’s refreshing for Americans 
to acknowledge positive things coming out of Africa because it’s so much more than the negative 
things that you hear about in the 
news,” she said.
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.orgNOAH,  from pg 1Trevor was paid $90,000 to speak at UFical expenses. She said she’s hop-ing to raise $110,000, which will cover her mother’s stay at Shands Hospital and the physical therapy she’ll need.
Her mother, who was in-be-
tween jobs, doesn’t have health insurance, she said.
“We’re not rich, and she’s pret-
ty much all alone down here,” she said. “It’s kind of up to me to take care of her.”
As of press time, the page has 
raised more than $4,000. Case said 
she’s happy about the help, but 
she still needs to cover her moth-er’s monthly bills.
Her mom covered her college 
expenses.  Now, she said it’s up to her to help her mom out with her medical bills.
“She’s raised me all her life 
alone with no help from anybody,” she said. “I’m trying to help her 
the best way I know how.”
•   •   •
Bramlett, who lives in Geor-
gia, made the drive down to 
Gainesville when she heard what happened to her daughter.
When she saw her daughter, 
she said she noticed her speech had improved. She said her daughter is hardworking, and her rate of recovery proves it.
“She is really working at it, and 
I’m really proud of her,” she said.
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.orgSTROKE,  from pg 1The UF alumna hopes 
to raise $110,000
Courtesy to the Alligator
Elizabeth White Case, left, poses with her daughter, Mikaela 
Case, a 22-year-old UF graduate.
CRIME
Williams
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Stand-up comedian Angelo Lozada opens for Trevor Noah at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Wednesday night.
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
As part of an ongoing concert series, a 
neo-folk rock band from Montreal, Can-
ada, and Kentucky will perform at the Historic Thomas Center today at 7 p.m.
HuDost, which has about 4,400 likes 
on Facebook as of press time, has played in festivals such as Bonnaroo and the Is-lands Folk Fest in Vancouver, according to the group’s website.
The Jewel Box series was named after 
its collection of artists, who are a trea-sure to the music industry, said Joseph Saccocci, the vice president of Shakerag Culture Center. Saccocci, a promoter and 
fan of the band, said HuDost changes the 
atmosphere of the rooms it plays in.The band is known to “weave a seam-
less tapestry of sound that renders tears and laughter in listeners, cultivating that 
nameless longing that abides somewhere 
in all our hearts,” according to a press release. Mayor Ed Braddy awarded Sac-cocci, who organized the Jewel Box se-ries, the Individual Arts Award for his nonproﬁ  t work at Shakerag. 
There will be at least 10 more concerts 
before the year’s end, he said.
Future shows include artists such as 
Bobby Whitlock, who has worked with artists like George Harrison, John Lennon and Eric Clapton, Saccocci said. 
The Shakerag Culture Center is collab-
orating with the City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs Depart-ment to bring the musicians, said Russell Etling, the City of Gainesville cultural af-fairs manager.
“Experiencing it once will make a be-
liever of you,” he said.
Etling said the community will hear 
both beloved and new genres of music, college students included.
“You’ll ﬁ  nd that the artists we are pre-
senting are great for every age bracket,” he said.
Tickets are $20 at the door. The cost 
of putting on the event, including pay-
ing the artists, is covered by ticket sales, 
Etling said. Doors open at 6 p.m. at the Historic Thomas Center, located at 302 NE Sixth Ave. 
@MollyIDonovan
mdonovan@alligator.orgMusical duo with global roots in GNV
IN IT TO WIN IT
Candice Fischer, right, a 20-year-old UF preprofessional biology sophomore, competes against Jo-
mar Duran, a 21-year-old psychology senior, at UF Counseling & Wellness Center’s Play Day outside the Reitz Union on Wednesday.
Emma Green / Alligator StaffBy Cynthia Lehrer
Alligator Contributing Writer
Instagram announced the ability to upload longer vid-
eos to its social-media platform Tuesday.
The company revised its 15-second cap, allowing all 
users to upload 60-second videos in the near future, ac-cording to a press release.
“Longer video on Instagram begins rolling out today 
and will be available for everyone in the coming months,” Tuesday’s release said.
The time people spent watching videos on Instagram 
increased by more than 40 percent in the last six months, according to the release, leading the Web service to make its maximum video length four times longer.
Brant Wickersham, a 20-year-old UF family, youth and 
community sciences junior, said he might take 30-second 
videos, and that businesses will probably ﬁ  nd the change 
more useful.
“By allowing larger content, marketers aren’t restricted 
to 15 seconds and can better tell a story,”  he said.
Jake Plonskier, a 20-year-old UF accounting junior, said 
Instagram’s users will start to see more commercial adver-tising rather than personal entertainment.
“Now with this update, companies will be able to air 
longer ads at a cheaper cost and have the same amount of 
viewers,” he said.
Rachel Shapiro, a 20-year-old UF marketing junior, said 
the change won’t have a large impact on the average user.
“Celebrities and comedians will probably make a lot 
larger use of the new video feature,” she said.
Instagram videos can already take a long time to load, 
Shapiro said, and people often scroll past them.
Taylor Light, a UF nutritional sciences freshman, said 
her attention span is too short to enjoy the update.
“I love Instagram, and it’s my favorite social media 
platform, but I feel like the new update will just make me 
want to skip through every video I see,” the 19-year-old said.  Instagram releases 
new video feature, UF reactsTECHNOLOGYThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnAll aboard (Trevor) 
Noah’s ark
Hello, world: This is your Alligator opinions editor, Da-
vid, chiming in on Trevor Noah’s set. Now, some of you might be wondering why this editorial’s being 
written in the ﬁ  rst-person rather than from the per-
spective of the entire staff. Well, most of us stayed 
put at the ofﬁ  ce to turn out this paper for you, so it’d be a little strange for me to represent an opinion we don’t all necessarily 
have. And secondly, as with any relationship, be it boyfriend 
and girlfriend, spouse and spouse, newspaper and audience — you know, the truest of romances — a little spontaneity and new energy can be revitalizing. So, without further ado: How about that Trevor Noah set?
This show and Noah’s comedy style in general offer so 
much to audiences of all types. From devout comedy fans to those complete strangers who at ﬁ  rst mention of the words “Trevor Noah” think you’re referring to two separate individu-
als, Noah’s work proves nothing short of prophetic. Just look 
at one of his many great phrases: “Traveling: the university of the world. Traveling is the antidote to ignorance.” Is he Bud-dha reborn as a comedian?  
I could rehash endless quotes and material from him, but, 
above all, his take on racial tensions cannot go unmentioned. Amid the widespread racism against Mexican-Americans and the anti-immigrant timbre of Trump’s rallies, Noah points to the inherent hypocrisy of the entire situation. He addresses 
how Americans speak so negatively about Mexicans, on how 
they steal our jobs and need to get out of the country, but then are like, “Taco Tuesday!” as if to say, “It’s OK to hate Mexi-cans, but let’s keep their good food and beautiful women.” This kind of social commentary and satire through comedy 
doesn’t just grow out of the ground; it’s a gem that highlights 
the discussions we all should be having about the silliness of our society’s ills.
Underneath all the humor and collective smiles, Noah also 
taught us the importance of bipartisanship. And those who would dismiss Noah and “The Daily Show” as comedic pan-dering to liberal agendas would be happy to hear that Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., is currently Noah’s favorite guest he’s had on “The Daily Show.” On Graham, Noah admitted al-
though they clearly differ in political views, he views Graham 
as a decent man, and to achieve any progress in the coun-try, we all need to acknowledge the human beings behind the political views before we dismiss the entire package. What 
does it say about our country when a comedian offers inﬁ  -
nitely more bipartisanship and about as many dick jokes as our presidential candidates do in their debates?
Clearly I’ve found a new life role model, but regardless of 
how you feel about him, let’s all take a moment to acknowl-
edge we had a comedian agree to perform at a university. As 
Accent Speakers Bureau Chairperson Kevin Gerson addressed in his post-show interview with Noah, comedians like Bill Ma-her and Chris Rock have publicly refused to perform at college 
campuses because of political correctness in colleges.
Yet here we have a man who acknowledges the concerns 
and political divisiveness of the country but deliberately 
chooses to reach across the aisle and strike up a conversation. Say what you will, but my heart rests very much at peace to 
see Jon Stewart’s “War on Bullsh—t” alive and well through 
comedy in Trevor Noah.
Will the superhero craze ever go away?
“Iron Man” was a great ﬁ  lm. Robert 
Downey Jr. gave us a new, strangely lovable superhero to devour popcorn to. Tony Stark was refreshing, the story was intriguing, the explosions 
were bigger and better and it reminded us just how awesome superhero movies can be.
But that was 2008.Since then, Marvel Studios (now owned by 
Disney) has shoved more than 10 more closely related superhero ﬂ  icks down our throats, and the crazy thing is it’s still working. Disney would never take on such an audacious business strategy if it didn’t expect wild re-turns and proﬁ  t, but I am honestly shocked our culture is still excited and receptive to each and every new superhero ﬁ  lm and character presented before us. But it all has to end eventually, right?
Applying elementary economics concepts to rather large 
and complex industries such as this may be frowned upon, but this particular concept has rung true in my personal experience.
Are Marvel Studios movies the exception to the law of 
diminishing marginal utility?
Utility is the enjoyment or satisfaction you get from 
something. Marginal utility is the enjoyment you get from “consuming” one more unit of something. Thus, as Investo-pedia deﬁ  nes, the law of diminishing marginal utility states “that as a person increases consumption of a product, while keeping consumption of other products constant, there is a decline in the marginal utility that a person derives from consuming each additional unit of that product.”
In other words, the more you consume something, the 
less enjoyment you get from having it again. This is how all-you-can-eat restaurants stay in business, people. It’s the same reason why that fourth slice of chocolate cake at Golden Corral doesn’t sit as well as the ﬁ  rst three.
But can the same be applied to something like Marvel Studios movies?
I enjoyed the ﬁ  rst “Iron Man” ﬁ  lm, was satis-
ﬁ  ed with the ﬁ  rst “Captain America,” but was completely worn out and tired of the series af-ter sweating my way through “The Avengers” in 2012. Strangely, as I was reaching complete and utter exhaustion with superhero movies, the public majority was just starting to dive into the deep end, and, to my astonishment, I do not fore-see any stopping in the near future.
We’ve reached the point where if a new Marvel ﬂ  ick 
doesn’t dominate opening weekend and/or acquire over $100 million in the box ofﬁ  ce, it’s a shocking failure (I’m looking at you, “Fantastic Four” remake). Never before has a string of undeniably similar ﬁ  lms garnered such lofty ex-pectations release after release.
Just wait until early May. Once again, another Marvel 
movie, “Captain America: Civil War,” will attract movie-goers, like swarms of bugs ﬂ  ocking toward an LED light. The plot will have oddly identical rises and falls, the ex-plosions will be shown from slightly different angles, Tony Stark will say one or two new funny lines and Disney will walk home with $400 million when all is said and done. You can’t blame Disney; the company has found a cinemat-ic and marketing formula that works, yielding massively successful results and little to no losses. But what does it mean for us consumers?
As a culture, each successive Michael Bay-caliber explo-
sion will give us less and less satisfaction. We will laugh a little bit less at each witty Tony Stark comment and will come to terms with the fact that these plots are capable of going on forever. Our plots, however, are not, and it is this reason that we shall eventually move past superhero movies and on to the next “big thing” in entertainment, whatever that may be.
Andrew Hall is a UF ﬁ  nance sophomore. His column 
appears on Thursdays. 
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
Even after the successful 
nuclear deal, the U.S. re-lationship with Iran is still 
contentious. The leader 
of Iran still often leans 
on nationalistic and religious extremes in order to keep his 
control of the country. Mean-
while, the Western media fo-cuses much of its coverage on controversial issues, such as the chants of “death to America,” the capture and 
eventual return of U.S. Navy officers after 
their boat broke down in Iranian waters and Iran’s continued missile testing. But the one thing Western media has been 
hesitant, or unwilling, to discuss is the set 
of elections that occurred in early March.  
Nobody is saying Iran is a full-fledged 
democracy, but it would also be foolish to say Iran doesn’t have the trappings of 
democracy. Although it is true the Guard-
ians’ Council, an unelected government body, has mechanisms in place to disqual-ify candidates solely on their political be-
liefs, there is also a mechanism for those 
disqualified candidates to draft official complaints. The fact there are elections at all in a theocracy led by such an extremist leader is remarkable in itself.
The interesting thing about this elec-
tion is moderate candidates have success-fully won and created a majority in the Majlis — Iran’s equivalent of a parliament 
— and Assembly of Experts — the elected 
body tasked with choosing the next Aya-tollah of Iran. That’s right, an elected body could name Iran’s next dictator, and this does not seem to be a too far off prospect 
since the current Ayatollah Ali Khamenei 
is 76 years old. His current health, or lack thereof, is not accessible to public records.
While there are really no formal politi-
cal parties in Iran, and defining what it means to be moderate is difficult, these semi-democratic structures demonstrate how Iran is willing to open up and become further integrated into the international 
community. The sanctioning done before 
the nuclear agreement by the international community has shown Iranians the con-servative faction in the country will not be 
good for Iran’s future. The nuclear deal, which was secured by moder-
ates, has allowed for an opening in Iran to the global economy at 
large once again.
For all the flak and opposi-
tion from American conserva-
tives against the Iran nuclear 
deal, I think it is not unfair to 
say President Obama deserves some credit in swaying the Ira-
nian elections. This is a president who has unapologetically made it his strategy 
to de-escalate outdated, Cold War-era ten-
sions between the U.S. and countries like Iran.
Much to the chagrin of Obama’s con-
servative opposition, the plan to make peace with your enemies and not just your friends is not a new strategy, but 
one the U.S. has now begun to take seri-
ously — the best example being Obama’s trip to Cuba over the past week and the continued openness between these two countries.
The U.S. relationship with Iran is ob-
viously more fragile and dangerous than that with Cuba, but one cannot make peace with a clenched fist. The war-hawk-
ish rhetoric coming from Iran does not 
have to be met with the same hawkish el-ements here in the U.S. — certainly not if we really want to secure a lasting peace process with Iran.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Thursdays.Iran’s historic March 2016 electionsColumn
In the early hours of Mon-day, March 21, deputies and police in Gainesville were 
forced to shoot 16-year old 
Robert Dentmond after he 
refused to drop what was later found to be a replica assault 
rifle. 
Hours before, Dentmond 
called 9-1-1 and said he was 
feeling suicidal and had a high-
powered rifle in his possession. After arriving, authorities were forced to take 
precautionary measures after he began 
walking away from them into the apart-
ments, failing to stop after multiple warn-
ings.
Despite this, I can’t help thinking trag-
edies such as this might be avoided in the 
future if gun control in this country was 
tightened. 
Last year, 1,145 people were killed by 
police in the U.S., 89 percent of them by 
gunshot: a rate of 84 deaths per month nationally. 
While a small percentage of these 
deaths was avoidable, most of them were completely procedural, because the offi-cers had to defend their lives and or the 
lives of others. 
If firearms were not so readily avail-
able, however, many of these could po-
tentially have been avoided, as the police would not have to use deadly force as of-
ten.
Take the U.K., for example, where 
there have been a total of 31 killings by 
law enforcement since the turn of the mil-
lennium. 
Granted, the U.K. only has a popula-
tion of 64 million, one-fifth of the popu-
lation of the U.S., but as a nation it has experienced in the last 16 years only 2 
percent of the amount of killings by police 
forces seen in the U.S. 
Robert Dentmond’s weapon turned out 
to be fake, but the police had no way of 
knowing that, as it is completely plausible 
for someone in the U.S. to own a deadly weapon; it would have been dangerous for the police to assume otherwise.
A good friend of mine at UF, living on 
campus here, legally owns a 12-gauge shotgun, which he stores in the boot of his car. I still fail to see how or why this is at all neces-
sary. 
The potential to be able to go 
to a range with your own weap-
on surely is not worth the dam-
age caused by so many owning 
guns: not when you can rent out firearms at the ranges for next to no money. 
But far from attempting to tighten gun 
laws, Florida seems to be aiming for the opposite, with a bill being pushed to al-low people to carry concealed firearms on college campuses.
The idea of people carrying around 
hidden deadly weapons in my university terrifies me, and when people tout the notion that this is merely for security, I think, “Is that not what we invest so 
much money and trust into our law en-
forcement systems for: security?” 
The University Police Patrol Division 
has a total of 65 sworn officers, readily 
armed and extensively trained in weapon 
use. 
The argument I always hear in re-
sponse to this is law-abiding citizens would never use their guns irresponsibly. 
I don’t disagree with this, but if the po-
lice services had little or substantially less reason to believe anyone might actually have a deadly weapon on their person at 
all times, there might actually be less rea-
son or need to use deadly force.
Subsequently, exemplary projects im-
plemented to improve these statistics and minimize incidences of shooting a violent 
offender, such as the NYPD and Los An-
geles police training camps — in collabo-ration with Scottish police —  might see improved results.
Overall, we need not blame the police 
or the victims of many of these killings. 
We need to instead explore all of the 
variables in place that aggravate the vi-olence and increase chances of police 
shootings, and with a clear look into the 
issue at large, the preponderance of guns in our country reveals itself as a clear as-pect of this issue in need of reform.
Joe Franklin is a UF student.A look into tightening gun lawsGuest column
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.org
“The war-hawkish 
rhetoric coming from Iran 
does not have to be met 
with the same hawkish 
elements here in the U.S. 
— certainly not if we 
want to secure a lasting 
peace process with Iran.”Joe Franklin
Speaking OutKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
The Jam to host ﬁ  rst-ever laser light show
It will feature Pink Floyd’s album “Pulse, ” pg 12What’s inside: 
The Avenue reviews the latest in hip-hop, pg 10Check out this week’s Mediocre Advice, pg 9THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Cecilia Lemus
Avenue Writer
Santa Fe College is holding its 
47th annual Spring Arts Festival in 
downtown Gainesville. This year is the ﬁ  rst time the main stage is at Bo Diddley Plaza.
The festival is Saturday and 
Sunday on Northeast First Street and on the grounds of the nearby Historic Thomas Center, located at 302 NE Sixth Ave. It is one of the three largest annual events in Gainesville and features artwork from ceramics to glass art and live music.
More than 200 artists will be in 
attendance, working with a variety of media, and more than 100,000 people are expected to attend, Kathryn Lehman, Santa Fe’s cul-tural affairs coordinator, said.
Lehman said that over 47 
years, the festival has won several awards, including being top tourist 
attraction, and best arts and crafts 
festival in the state of Florida.
There is a variety of food con-
cessions and a Saturday-evening concert. Along with the festivities, Saturday at noon there is a celebra-tion for Santa Fe’s 50th anniver-sary.
“There is something for every-
one and the family, and it’s lots of fun,” Lehman said. “Everyone comes out, and they have a great time.”
Musical acts include Grüv-
Therapy, an urban jazz/neo soul group; N2Q, a group with electric mixes of ukuleles and singing in-struments; and Jewish folk music 
group Klezmer Katz.     
Admission is free and no pets 
are allowed. On Saturday the festi-
val is from 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., and the festival is from noon to 5 p.m. Sunday. 
For Eleanor Blair, a veteran art-
ist at the festival, this marks her 45th consecutive year participat-
ing in the Spring Arts Festival. She 
recalled the early years when the festival was much smaller and held at the Hotel Thomas, which is now the Historic Thomas Center.
Blair said the festival has grown 
to include artists from around the country, and the quality of the art has improved.
“I’m amazed I am still doing it 
45 years later — still doing it and still enjoying it,” she said.
Alongside the art, Blair said 
there is more to experience, with “music, great food and wonderful performances.”Santa Fe College to host Spring Arts Festival 
LOCAL
LEFT:
Santa Fe College’s 47th an-
nual Spring Arts Festival will feature more than 200 artists. More than 100,000 people are expected to at-tend.
BELOW:
One of three largest an-nual events in Gainesville, the Spring Arts Festival will be held on Saturday and Sunday on Northeast First Street. 
Photos courtesy to the Alligator
By Kali Kavouklis
Avenue Writer
Twirly Whirly Burly-Q is bring-
ing a touch of vintage New York 
City burlesque to Gainesville on Wednesday.
With sensuality, extravagant 
costumes and good old-fashioned girl power, Twirly Whirly Burly-Q is a classic burlesque show with a modern twist. The show’s three New York City burlesque performers have chosen to visit Gainesville as one of 21 cities they will visit in a span of four weeks.
Two of the cast members, Ula 
Uberbusen and Hazel Honeysuck-le, are returning to Gainesville after two visits with the Mason Dixie Burlesque Tour, the pair’s ﬁ  rst burlesque tour.
“That was our ﬁ  rst experience 
with producing a burlesque tour and going on the road with bur-
lesque,” Uberbusen said. “We 
were self-taught on that. We learned everything from trial and error and really loved that.”
Uberbusen, who tells everyone 
her name means “great bosom” in German, is the producer of Victrola Burlesque, among other shows, in New York City. When it 
became apparent the Mason Dixie 
Burlesque Tour would not occur this year, Uberbusen still knew she wanted to tour.
“Hazel and I still wanted to do 
a tour, and we wanted to work with someone from New York, and we wanted to do an different 
kind of show but still do a tour-
ing burlesque show,” Uberbusen said.
Uberbusen and Honeysuckle 
chose to team up with fellow New Yorker Rosie Cheeks, a burlesque dancer who stars in Burlesque Show at the Borgata with Honey-suckle.
“We had a meeting to talk 
about what our vision for the show was, how we would do things, and it all meshed,” Uber-
busen said. “It was like we all 
wanted to put on the same kind of show.”
While the Mason Dixie Bur-
lesque Show Tour was primarily a patriotic show about Southern pride, Twirly Whirly Burly-Q is its own animal.
“We wanted to do a classic 
burlesque show and have that old-school feel,” Uberbusen said.
The group began to research 
old performance styles to create the aesthetic of an early 20th-cen-tury New York burlesque show. The name, Twirly Whirly, was taken from a burlesque show that was performed in New York in 
1904, Uberbusen said.
Gainesville will be the only 
city in Florida out of the tour’s 21 
stops.
“We’ve been there twice with 
Mason Dixie and just loved the 
town, loved the audience,” Uber-
busen said.Uberbusen and Honeysuckle 
have toured in other Florida cities before, but they didn’t form the relationships they formed with the audience and other perform-ers in Gainesville.
“We love the energetic, artistic 
atmosphere,” Honeysuckle said.
After a childhood of perform-
ing ballet, Honeysuckle began 
performing burlesque in 2009 
after studying at The New York School of Burlesque.
“Burlesque is an art form 
where the performers really have a connection with the audience, and I reconnected with my love of entertaining,” Honeysuckle said.
For Honeysuckle, the new tour 
is about bringing New York bur-lesque to other cities.
“We are all based in NYC and 
this show is dedicated to taking the spirit of NYC burlesque all over the country,” Honeysuckle said.
Rosie Cheeks, the third mem-
ber of the tour, entered the bur-
lesque world out of a career of 
acting in New York City. Twirly Whirly Burly-Q was created after Cheeks joined the group.
“Part of what makes us unique 
is our own personal styles,” Cheeks said.  “We all bring a very different style of striptease. There’s also singing!”
Twirly Whirly Burly-Q will 
perform at 10 p.m. on Wednesday at Market Street Pub and Caba-ret, located at 120 SW First Ave. The show costs $10 in advance through the website brownpaper-tickets.com or $12 at the door.THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Courtesy to the Alligator
Twirly Whirly Burly-Q, a trio of New York City burlesque per-
formers, is  bringing its show to Gainesville on Wednesday.
Burlesque show to tease GNV
MEDIOCRE ADVICETurning 21, relationships, sex
Dear Mediocre,
What should I do for my 21st birth-
day?
- Girls Just Wanna Have Fun
Dear Girls Just Wanna Have Fun,It’s your big 21. Congratulations, you 
made it. Listen, if you’re looking for fun, you’ve come to the right place. Reach-ing 21 is a big deal, because you’ve hit your ﬁ  rst important milestone: legal drinking. For this one night, you have the right to get absolutely trashed with-out any repercussions. This is your free 
pass.
Now, the 21 shots on your 21st birth-
day is stupid. You’re basically asking 
for alcohol poisoning. Instead, gather a group of your most alcoholic friends and get pseudo-drunk off their vibes. It’s a real thing. Wear the shortest dress and highest heels in your closet to assure when you start walking funny down 
University Avenue, you’ll look your ab-
solute best. Nothing says classy like a 21-year-old in stripper heels and a mi-cro-mini. Maybe wear some knee pads too, so when you fall — and you will — you don’t have to walk around with the scars that remind you of your night of bad decisions.
Just looking out.Lastly, make sure to eat 
like a hog on your special 
night, because on your 21st, 
the calories don’t count.
Ciao,Mediocre
Dear Mediocre,
What country should I emigrate to 
in the event that the election goes ter-ribly, horribly, orangely wrong?
- Politically Mindful
Dear Politically Mindful,I don’t like getting involved with dra-
ma, but my advice would be Finland. People just look happy there.
Toodles,
Mediocre
Dear Mediocre,
What do you think about sex before 
marriage?
- ConservativeDear Conservative,Oh, boy.Once again, this is a topic 
a lot of different people have 
a lot of different feelings 
about. But, staying true to the honesty of this column, I’ll go ahead and give you an earful of what I think about premarital sex.
DO IT!
It’s a big cliche, but don’t buy the car 
before you take it for a test drive. I mean, 
what if it doesn’t start? What if it stalls 
out on you? You need to make sure you don’t fall victim to these tragedies. Sexy time is a big part of what keeps rela-tionships strong. Maybe you’re shaking your head and talking about all of the other important “values” relationships have, but sex is like the heart. You can’t really survive without it.
So yeah, have sex. And not just once, 
and not just with one person. Explore, have fun, be safe — but abandon those stuffy morals. You’re better off without them.
Have fun,MediocreP.S. Not having condoms is never 
an excuse not to be safe. The Student Health Care Center has giant bowls of freebies.
Dear Mediocre,What is your ideal relationship?
- Curious
Dear Curious,My ideal relationship goes a little 
something like this:
I like long, romantic walks to the bar.Just kidding. Well, kind of. I’m an al-
pha female, so 50/50 is super important. And I’m also crazy at times, so 75/25 is important, too. My ideal relationship is with someone who can read minds and provide me with an endless supply of ultra matte liquid lipsticks.
A girl can dream, right?Mediocre
Need advice? Send questions to me-
diocre.alligator.advice@gmail.com.The trio is from NYC
Julia Nevins
Avenue WriterFriday was a good day for hip-hop.
After a slow couple of weeks, some 
well-known artists dropped new music, 
including debut solo albums, mixtapes 
and SoundCloud tracks. Here are some of 
the few that caught my eye. Give these projects a listen to stay in the loop.
March 25Domo Genesis“Genesis”As a member of Odd Future, Domo Genesis 
has released several mixtapes and appeared on other Odd Future members’ tracks, but after be-ing in the game for a minute, Domo Genesis ﬁ  -nally released his debut studio album last week.
The 12-song album features Odd Future 
founder Tyler, The Creator and other notable artists such as Juicy J, Wiz Khalifa, Mac Mill-er, King Chip and Anderson .Paak. Take one glance at the tracklist and you’ll see that Domo 
brings Juicy J, Wiz and Tyler together on “Go 
(Gas),” which makes for an interesting col-laboration. Unfortunately, “Go (Gas)” didn’t impress me. Wiz Khalifa and Juicy J’s rapping style just doesn’t translate over the mellow beat produced by Tyler. On the other hand, “Dap-
per,” featuring Anderson .Paak, is certainly 
a standout from the album. “Dapper” sounds like a song that could’ve been on .Paak’s album “Malibu.” Domo spits a couple of verses over a 
groovy beat with Anderson .Paak on the hook, 
making it a perfect listen. If you hear one song on this album, make sure it’s “Dapper.” Over-all, Domo Genesis’ debut is solid despite the Odd Future artist being sometimes outshined 
by other members like Tyler, The Internet and 
Frank Ocean.
March 25
Zayn
“Mind of Mine”I couldn’t name a single One Direction 
song if you asked me, but even I was excited for Zayn’s debut solo album. Around this time 
last year, millions of teenage girls’ hearts were 
broken when Zayn announced he was leaving One Direction, but original 1D fans can dry their tears: Zayn’s ﬁ  rst project since the breakup is ﬁ  nally here.
Similar to Justin Bieber’s newfound respect 
after dropping “Purpose,” Zayn shocked nonbe-lievers with “Mind of Mine.” It’s actually good. Regardless of whether you’ve cared for Zayn in the past, the album is worth a listen. My fa-
vorite song on this album is “fOoL fOr YoU,” a 
slower song where Zayn shows off his impres-sive vocals on an upbeat hook. With “Mind of Mine,” Zayn Malik proves he doesn’t need One Direction to continue being an international su-
perstar. “Mind of Mine” is predicted to move up 
to 160,000 album units in its ﬁ  rst week, which will make Zayn’s debut project a No. 1 album on the Billboard 200 chart.
March 25Young Thug“Slime Season 3”Young Thug continues to prove why he’s one 
of the best in the rap game with his third and ﬁ  nal installment in his “Slime Season” mixtape series. The eight-song track is only 30 minutes long, one of the reasons why I love “Slime Sea-son 3.”  The problem I had with “Slime Season 2” was that it was too long, so the rapper made 
a good move with a shorter mixtape. My favor-
ite song on “SS3” is easily “With Them,” which starts the tape off with three minutes of straight bars. “With Them” is the highly anticipated 
song that ﬁ  rst debuted at Kanye West’s Yeezy 
Season 3 fashion show in Madison Square Gar-den back in February. The mixtape’s production is mainly handled by London on da Track and features Yak Gotti, PeeWee Roscoe and Duke 
on the song “Slime Sh—t.” Because “Slime Sea-
son 3” is pretty short, you should deﬁ  nitely take a listen and hear for yourself why Thugger is one of the hottest rappers right now.
March 25Curren$y“Weed & Instrumentals”Curren$y is one of the most consistent artists 
when it comes to putting out music. “Weed & Instrumentals” is Curren$y’s third mixtape this year and fourth project since December. The 17-song mixtape has a number of features from artists most people have probably never heard of. “Weed & Instrumentals” has its moments, so 
if you’re into Curren$y — or looking for some 
chill music — then check it out on Datpiff.
March 25
Kid Cudi
“The Frequency”While I usually round up the best albums 
and mixtapes, Kid Cudi’s latest song, “The Fre-quency,” deserves an exception. If you keep 
up with me, then you know I’m not one to shy 
away from criticizing Kid Cudi. I thought, and still do think, that “Speedin’ Bullet 2 Heaven” is one of the worst albums I have ever heard, 
but “The Frequency” almost makes me forget 
that album exists. Cudi dropped this gem on his SoundCloud on Friday evening, and it’s the best music he’s made in a long time. “The Frequen-cy” is produced by Mike Dean (the god) and 
Plain Pat, and it sounds like a mixture of “Man 
on the Moon” meets “Indicud.” Cudi does sing a lot on this song, but most importantly, he is ﬁ  -nally rapping again. A couple of Kid Cudi’s best qualities as an artist is his chill rapping style and his background vocals/moaning — “The Fre-
quency” has the best of both. I may or may not 
have cried out of joy and listened to this song 46 times since Friday, so I can promise you that “The Frequency” is one of the best songs re-
leased this year. I’m genuinely happy and ex-
cited Cudi is making amazing music like this again, and if he keeps it up, he might just make one of the best albums we’ll hear this year.THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016
ff the Record Hottest new releases in hip-hop, pop
Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
Courtesy of Sony Music U12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016
By Hannah Ogden
Avenue Writer
Ed Waldick is moving the light 
show from the garage to the big 
stage this weekend.
Waldick, the sound and light 
technician for The Jam, will be 
performing a Pink Floyd laser 
light show Saturday at 9 p.m. and Sunday at 8 p.m. at the venue. This will be the ﬁ  rst laser light show The Jam will produce.Ocala resident Waldick, 65, 
has been in the music business for over 20 years but never pro-
duced his own show. The idea for 
the laser light show came to Blake Briand, the owner and manager of The Jam, after watching Wal-dick perform a mini light show from his garage at Christmas.
“I said ‘game-on,’” Waldick 
said. “And when I say ‘game-on,’ I mean ‘pedal to the ﬂ  oorboard.’”
Waldick and Briand have been planning the event for about three months, with Waldick’s partner Iver Thue helping with projec-
tions and mapping for the show. 
The two have designed an entire set that is not just limited to la-sers and lights.
The set includes four moving 
heads, 16 LED cams, 12 strobe lights, four fog machines, two bubble machines, four lasers and other props Thue has, Waldick 
said.The show will have music from 
Pink Floyd’s album “Pulse.” Wal-
dick will perform the actual lights 
as he said he does not believe in 
relying on a computer program.
“Music is emotion, and emo-
tion changes,” he said. “Comput-ers can’t pick up on that.”
The show has sold 80 presale 
tickets so far and is expected to sell out, ﬁ  lling The Jam with 400 to 500 people, Briand said.
“This has crushed the previous record for presales,” he said.
Waldick said he hoped 50 
people would show up, but over 
1,300 people have said they are 
interested in the event on the Facebook page. The increased in-terest led to the idea of hosting another show Sunday night, Bri-and said.
The addition of the second 
show will give people the oppor-tunity to attend the same event, 
but the shows will not be identi-
cal. The music will be the same, but the show will not be because Waldick said he won’t feel the same emotions every time.
“I can’t paint the same picture 
two times in a row,” he said.
Waldick said he believes 
the show is going to be one of 
the biggest local events to hit 
Gainesville. He chose Pink Floyd because he said he believes ev-eryone loves Pink Floyd.
“Communicating through 
lighting to Pink Floyd’s music is a bullseye,” he said. “Put a blind-fold on me and I could still hit it.”
Taylor Rapaport, a 23-year-old 
UF graduate student, plans to at-tend the show Saturday.
“The combination of modern 
technology and classic rock is a really unique feature that I have never experienced before,” she said.
Rapaport said she also thinks 
it’s a new way to enjoy some of 
her old favorites.
Tickets to the show are $6 pre-
sale and $8 at the door; however, 
Briand suggests arriving early because he believes people will have to be turned away. People attending are also encouraged to bring blankets or folding chairs to sit in.
“This is going to be like eye 
candy on stunts,” Waldick said.The Jam to host ﬁ  rst-ever laser light show to Pink Floyd 
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Ed Waldick, a sound and light technician, will be putting on the first laser light show at The Jam with shows on Saturday and 
Sunday. The lights with accompany music from Pink Floyd’s album “Pulse, ” and tickets are $8 at the door. 
THE ROCK ’N’ ROLL TRIO
IS FROM MIAMI.
By Nicole Clark
Avenue Writer
Jacuzzi Boys, a garage rock ’n’ roll band 
from Miami, will be performing at High 
Dive on Sunday.
The band features Gabriel Alcala on gui-
tar and vocals, Diego Monasterios on drums 
and Danny Gonzales on bass.
Jacuzzi Boys formed in 2007 and signed 
onto Florida-based indie label Floridas Dy-ing Records. After the Jacuzzi Boys’ debut 
full-length album, “No Seasons,” was re-leased in 2009, the band gained popularity and a prominent fan: Iggy Pop.
With the Jacuzzi Boys on the rise, it 
wasn’t long before the band released more albums, with “Glazin’” in 2011 and the song “Bricks or Coconuts” appearing  in Seth Ro-gen’s 2011 movie, “50/50.”
Fans and newcomers can expect an ex-
citing show, as the group is known for its captivating live performances.
Its top album, “Glazin,’” is a fan favorite.“Glazin’ is my favorite song,” said Con-ner Anderson, a Jacuzzi Boys fan. “I can’t 
wait to see them Sunday.”
In addition to the Jacuzzi Boys, there 
will also be performances by local bands 
The Hails, Clarity and Dunies.
“I think that a lot of people will enjoy 
coming out to watch the show,” said Zach Levy, the drummer for The Hails. “The at-mosphere of live shows are great, and peo-ple are going to love it.”
The Hails is a Gainesville band that was 
formed in September 2015 and is comprised of four UF students.
“The Jacuzzi Boys will be one of the big-
gest bands we have played with,” said Rob-bie Kingsley, the lead singer of The Hails. “It’ll be cool to meet the Jacuzzi Boys and learn a little from them.”
Jacuzzi Boys’ music is considered ga-
rage-rock, but it also includes surfer-rock.
“Our music really matches up well with 
Jacuzzi Boys,” said Richie Caudill, the rhythm guitarist and backup vocalist for the Dunies. “It’s really exciting to be playing with them.”
Tickets are $8 in advance and $10 at 
the door. The doors for the show open at 8 p.m., and the show starts at 8:30 p.m. at 
High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave.Jacuzzi Boys, local bands to play High Dive this weekend
Courtesy to the Alligator
Miami-based Jacuzzi Boys are playing at High Dive on Sunday with local acts 
The Hails, Clarity and Dunies. Doors open at 8 p.m., and tickets are $10. 
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
Courtesy to the Alligator
Visionary CrossFit is hosting a female-focused art exhibit. Lo-
cal artist Carrie Martinez is one of the event’s featured artists.
By Erica Pope
Avenue Writer
Photography, paintings and 
prints are just a few items that will 
be featured at this weekend’s God-
dess Visions Photography Exhibi-
tion and Art Show.
The free event will be held Sat-
urday from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. at Vi-
sionary CrossFit, located at 716 N. 
Main St.
Jesus Martinez, the owner of 
Visionary CrossFit, said the theme of the show is women and the role 
women play in art. The exhibit 
will feature a range of female-fo-cused art, including photography, mixed media and sculptures, the 
38-year-old said.
The event will offer music with 
donation-based food, including al-
cohol. There will also be an after-party with electronic music and 
dancing for a $5 fee.
Both artists’ prints and origi-
nals will be available and prices 
will range from $20 to $10,000. 
Martinez said the gym’s last show 
was a blacklight art show, which about 300 people attended, and they are hoping for a similar turn-out this year.“The idea of incorporating a 
gym with an art gallery started 
with hanging my wife’s art on the 
walls of my gym,” said Martinez, who is also an artist.
He incorporates art on the 
gym’s whiteboard with the Work-
out of the Day, which has been 
featured on CrossFit’s Instagram account, with the gym’s goal to attract an alternative crowd.
“We didn’t want to attract your 
typical full-of-testosterone type of crossﬁ  tter,” Martinez said. “We wanted to attract more of a mom and pop. We wanted to create an 
environment that was less intimi-
dating.”
Carrie Martinez, Jesus’ wife 
and one of the event’s featured art-
ists, said she creates surrealist vi-
sionary art, primarily using acrylic paint. The 43-year-old painter said she enjoys representing the femi-nine aspect within her art in a way 
that is strong and powerful.
With the event being held to 
honor women, Carrie Martinez 
said the show is “kind of giving us 
more of a voice because we tend 
to get overlooked, still, in soci-ety.”
She said the gym has gotten a good response from women, be-cause they are represented within 
the art in a non-objectiﬁ  ed way.
Carrie Martinez said she tries 
to incorporate the goddess version 
of women in her art to help break through gender stereotyping.
Tim Malles, another one of the 
exhibit’s featured artists, said he believes the feminine ﬁ  gure is an important aspect to art. His art is 
mainly geared toward a celestial 
theme while portraying women in a positive light.
Malles said his paintings are 
priced between $100 and $6,000, 
as he tries to paint to all price 
ranges so everyone can have the option to buy.
“You never know who that one 
person is that connects with it,” he said.
Malles’ art ﬁ  ts in with the 
Visionary CrossFit philosophy, which is to challenge oneself by 
breaking out of the comfort zone, 
he said. It takes small steps, such as this exhibit, to recognize the importance of women.
“I think it’s a real tribute,” 
Malles said. “I think everybody will deﬁ  nitely get something out of it.”Local gym to host art exhibition
LOCAL
THE EVENT’S OVERALL GOAL
WAS TO PROMOTE BODY PEACE.
By Mariana Riquezes
Avenue Writer
Rose McEachern had suffered from childhood obesity for as 
long as she could remember, until she came to college and de-
cided to change her lifestyle.  
To McEachern, being skinny equaled being happy. Howev-
er, no matter how much the number on the scale got smaller, 
she never got happier.
Now, as the assistant director for UF’s Student Government 
Women’s Affair Cabinet, McEachern was in charge of plan-
ning an event for Spring semester: Everybody for Every body.Its overall goal was to empower people and promote body im-age peace.
On Wednesday, the cabinet held a discussion about how 
women should change their perspectives, not their images. McEachern got inspiration to organize this event from her own 
personal experience, she said. She ﬁ  nally felt happy when she 
stopped trying to obtain something superﬁ  cial to get others to like her and instead focused on how she felt about herself.
The event was held at 6:30 p.m. on Norman Field and was 
organized to spark an inspiring, informative and interactive dis-cussion on promoting healthy and positive body image.
UF doctoral student Nicki Karimipour led the discussion and 
spoke about the importance of body positivity. Karimipour is writing her dissertation on how social media use, speciﬁ  cally 
Facebook and Instagram, affects the female individual’s percep-
tion of body image.
Karimipour blames sociocultural determinants, which 
means women are socialized from a young age to care about how they look.
This is heightened with social media because of the constant 
need to post a “pretty” photo and the ability to see everybody else’s posts.
The topic sparked a conversation with the people at the 
event, and many agreed with Karimipour’s outlook.
“Pretending like it doesn’t matter is not the answer, because 
it always does, and it always will,” Karimipour said.
She said there is nothing wrong with wanting to look good; 
it is just important it is for the right reasons.The event was closed with a yoga class led by UF RecS-
ports yoga instructor Kayla Marcus and free popsicles from The Hyppo. McEachern said she wanted to have a yoga class at the event because it made an impact on her happiness.
“After a year of trying to lose weight and never being happy with the results, I turned to yoga because it is a practice that focuses on the well-being of the mind,” McEachern said. “As cheesy as it sounds, it taught me the importance of feeling con-tent with yourself, regardless of how you look, and that made a huge difference.”
Discussion helps boost women’s body conﬁ  dence, image
Mariana Riquezes / Alligator
Yoga instructor Kayla Marcus teaches the yoga class that was held at 7 p.m. on Wednesday on Norman Field. It 
was part of the Everybody for Every Body event hosted by  UF’s Student Government Women’s Affair Cabinet.
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
4-20-15-72-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    4-6-16-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
THE LAURELS 2/2 apt, $449/rm, newly renovated, wood flr, granite countertops, ss appliances, W/D in unit. Quiet, pet-friendly, gated community. Avail May 1st thru July 31. Call or text 646-789-3688    4-4-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Retiring UF Professor's Office Furniture7 armed, leather office chairs = $300. Executive Office Chair = $75. Beautiful ceil-ing fan with halogen lights = $70. Large thin LCD Monitor/TV with wall brackets = $125. Leather couch = $150. All prices firm. Would like to sell all to same person/business. Call 352-219-5539 for an appointment and pick-up at at UF office.   3-31-5-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99995 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
97 Toyota Avalon $1999
91 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 AutosAssistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery DriversClosing drivers can earn $100+ each night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
F/T office receptionist wanted. Starting not less than $11 per hour. Legal experience not required. Seeking an energetic person for the front desk that can communicate well with clients. We want this person to be a great first impression for our office. Computer skills helpful, but nothing high end required. Call 352-371-4000     4-1-14-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
4-12-15-14Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Graduation Photos by Gator Alum$150 for 1 hour session on UF campus30-40 edited digital imageswww.facebook/BoriginalArt.comCaryn Ruano (954)629-4861    4-7-16-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYLIVE IN HOUSE MGR
For a co-ed Co-Op near UF in Gainesville. 
Wanted single mature adult, NO UNDER 
GRADUATES MAY APPLY, ideal for PHD 
student or Veteran student, with several 
years of graduate study ahead. Must enjoy 
working with students, responsible, diplo -
matic and assertive. Position starts in May. 
Compensation - bedroom, utilities, parking 
& meals included in exchange for housing 
responsibilities and monthly stipend. Email 
cover letter and resume to apply.clo1931@
gmail.com. Background check required, 
must be bondable, NO PETS. We will email 
you a complete job description upon receiv-
ing your information.    3-29-16-5-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDED
Full time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working student for part-time work in land maintenance on weekends. $10/hr. Contact matt@knellinger -
law.com or 352-591-3000    3-31-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Prep Cook / DishwasherFull-time for large sorority house. Experience is a plus, but will train the right individual. $9.00/hr. to start with the raise after proba -
tion period. Must be able to start Aug. 8, hours M-F 11 to 7. Background check re-quired. Email resume and cover letter to frat-mgmt@gmail.com.    4-12-16-10-14
Chef/Cook –Begin 8/15/16 - 1 person kitchen/ must be able to order food in quantities needed, plan menus, prepare and cook lunch and dinner from scratch for average 80 per day. Manage the kitchen from A to Z. Need to have posi-tive attitude, imagination, and creativity, not stubborn/flexible, Safeserv Certified/will pay for class and test if needed. Background check, alcohol, drug, health checks will be run. Email resume or letter as to experience with salary history. No salary history = no call back. Starting salary $500 per wk. frat-mgmt@gmail.com    4-12-16-10-14
Oak Hall School is hiring Summer Day Camp Counselors. Visit www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment for details and application information. Group interview on 4/16 at 9 AM.    4-15-16-12-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016Headline
Story description Pg#
Coach Mike Holloway and the 
Florida track and ﬁ  eld teams host the Pepsi Florida Relays starting today.Read the story on pg. 18.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Wagner named SEC Freshman of the Week
Florida women's golfer Sam Wagner was named the Southeastern Confer-
ence Freshman of the Week on Wednesday. Wagner tied for ﬁ  fth place at four under par at the Briar's Creek Invitational on March 22.THE JUCO TRANSFER IS HOPING 
TO CONTRIBUTE IMMEDIATEL Y.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Kelvin Taylor, the former Florida run-
ning back who didn’t turn the ball over 
once in three years of collegiate football, 
is gone.
But before he left for the NFL, he gave 
one piece of advice to the group that would 
be replacing him.
“No fumbles,” sophomore Jordan 
Cronkrite said.
And if you do fumble?“You’ll be the most hated man,” he said.With Taylor foregoing his senior season 
to enter the NFL Draft, four running backs lie in wait to take his starting position: sophomores Cronkrite and Jordan Scarlett, JUCO transfer Mark Thompson and red-
shirt senior Mark Herndon.
Of the four, Scarlett and Cronkrite saw 
the most production last year, combining 
for 338 yards and four touchdowns in their freshmen seasons.
But the most talked-about running back 
of Spring practice — in addition to being the most unknown — has been Thompson.
The 6-foot-2, 242-pound running back is 
at least three inches taller and 29 pounds heavier than the next biggest member of Florida’s backﬁ  eld.
And they have noticed.“I was like, this is a big dude,” Scarlett 
said of Thompson. “He’s supposed to play another position or something? Shoot.”
In two seasons at Dodge City Communi-
ty College, Thompson became the school’s 
all-time rushing touchdown leader (26) and 
rushed for the fourth-most yards (1,298) in the NJCAA last season.
Through three weeks of practice at Flor-
ida, however, his expectations have been 
tempered.
During one practice session, senior line-
backer Jarrad Davis put a hit on him that 
Thompson hasn’t forgotten.Thompson stands tall among UF's tailbacks
By Graham Hack
Sports Writer
The warm weather in Florida 
suits Austin Appleby just ﬁ  ne.
In fact, he sometimes taunts his 
former Purdue teammates about wearing a T-shirt and shorts around campus throughout the winter.
“Those 6 a.m. times in February 
I remember fondly, walking over in 
the cold and it’s about negative 16 
outside,” Appleby said of his time in West Lafayette, Indiana, which even in March is projected to see temper-atures as low as 25 degrees Fahren-heit this week. “You’re questioning how much you like football at that 
time. It’s a little different when it’s 
60 and you get to scoot on over.”
Other than the weather, though, there’s a sense of familiarity for the transfer quarterback when it comes to Florida’s offense, which is simi-lar to the one he ran at Purdue. And 
when it comes to any differences in 
terminology, Appleby hasn’t had any issues. 
“Coach Mac and Coach Nuss are 
just unbelievable teachers,” he said. 
“The way that they teach the game 
and the offense itself ﬁ  ts me very well. It really brings out what I do really well.”
Appleby had a middling career 
with the Boilermakers, throwing for 
2,777 yards, 19 touchdowns and 19 
interceptions.
In his ﬁ  nal season, he threw for 
1,260 yards, eight touchdowns and eight interceptions in three starts Transfer QB enjoying weather, opportunity with GatorsKevin O’Sullivan knew it was only a 
matter of time.
His top-ranked Gators were 22-1 
heading into their ﬁ  rst Southeastern Conference road series against Ken-
tucky.
They were the kings of the college baseball 
world. All eyes were on them at the top of the throne.
The team felt invincible.Put simply, the Gators were getting greedy, 
expecting the winning streak to continue roll-ing.
“It’s human nature,” O’Sullivan said. “You 
win 17, 18 in a row. They’re not listening. Things are going their way. I mean, it’s human nature.”
The Wildcats sent Florida a reality check, 
knocking the Gators off their feet by taking the ﬁ  nal two games of the series. 
O’Sullivan’s players quickly relearned what 
their head coach has preached to them since Day 1: Talent only takes you so far.
A lack of effort — in games, in batting prac-
tice, in the clubhouse — will end in the team’s demise.
And as talented as this Gators team is, may-
be the reality of a humbling defeat is just what was needed as it moves into the brunt of its regular-season schedule.
“Two losses on the weekend is one thing,” 
O’Sullivan said. “Those things are going to Reality check 
taught Florida 
valuable lesson
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Mark Thompson carries the ball during practice on March 9 at the Sanders 
Practice Fields. 
SEE SIDEBAR,  PAGE 19SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 19 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 19AIR JORDAN
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
Appleby came to Florida from PurdueBy Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Julia Sell, head coach of the No. 
15 LSU women’s tennis team, knows 
Florida coach Roland Thornqvist very well.
In fact, Sell played under Thorn-
qvist in college. 
She was a player at Florida from 
1999-2003 — a time during which Flor-
ida won a national title, two Southeast-
ern Conference titles, three SEC tour-nament titles, was NCAA runner-up and National Team Indoor runner-up. 
To say that Sell knows Thornqvist’s 
style is an understatement. 
“(Sell’s) gonna want to try and end 
what we have going here,” Thornqvist said. 
“And they have a ball striking club 
there, they have players who really hit the ball, so we certainly have to be ready and perhaps defend if need be.”
When LSU plays No. 6 Florida on 
Thursday at 5 p.m. at the Ring Tennis Complex, expect a close match.Over her three years at LSU, Sell 
raised the Tigers nearly 40 spots in the Intercollegiate Tennis Association na-
tional rankings. 
She also turned the program around 
by bringing in freshman Jessica Go-
lovin, the highest-ranked American commitment in LSU history, along with touted junior Joana Vale Costa and senior Skylar Kuykendall.
Last season, LSU reached the 20-
win mark for the third time in program 
history. 
But while the Tigers have improved 
drastically in Sell’s time at the helm, 
the Gators still hold an advantage over LSU.
All time, Florida boasts a 41-1 re-
cord against the Tigers. 
The last time these two teams 
played, Florida swept LSU after win-
ning the doubles point and getting 
singles victories with Josie Kuhlman, Kourtney Keegan and Brianna Morgan.
Players on courts four, five and six 
for the Gators are undefeated in SEC play this season, meaning the depth of this team contributes greatly to their success.
In addition, the Gators have won 
155 consecutive dual matches at home dating back to 2005.
Florida is also the only undefeat-
ed team left in the SEC, and are one game ahead of No. 4 Georgia and No. 8 South Carolina.
Florida is led by No. 9 Belinda 
Woolcock and No. 10 Brooke Austin in singles and the No. 5 doubles duo of Austin and Keegan. 
Meanwhile, LSU is lead by No. 19 
Vale Costa and No. 48 Golovin in sin-gles and No. 70 Vale Costa and Ryann Foster in doubles.
“We have to be the team who’s will-
ing to take the pain of long, extended points overall in a match. That confi-dence you get as a player knowing you can grind people down is invaluable,” Thornqvist said. 
“...So that our players have the con-
fidence and belief that the Gators will be the toughest team in long points, long games and long matches.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016
Gators hoping to stay undefeated in SEC
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
The Gators are used to competing against strong runners.Less than three weeks ago, Florida competed at the NCAA 
Indoor Championships, where it saw the most talented col-legiate athletes in the country.
But today, as the three-day Pepsi Florida Relays kicks off, 
the competition the Gators will face is of a different caliber.
They are not just facing the best athletes in the United 
States, but the fastest runners and throwers in the world.
“It’s the Florida Relays, and we get great competition 
here every year. We get a lot of post-collegiates, a lot of Olympians and world champions,” Florida coach Mike Hol-loway said. “With it being an Olympic year, there will be a plethora of athletes here.”
Though Florida had 13 athletes place first in their respec-
tive events during their last meet at the Cardinal and Gold Challenge on March 25th-26th, Holloway is only focusing on the challenges his team will face this week.
“I’m not a momentum guy from week to week. But I 
mean, I think it obviously gives us more confidence,” Hollo-way said. “The big thing for me is I want to see the effort, the passion. I think it’s great that we have the hammers early in the meet because Anders (Eriksson) does a great job of kind of getting it kickstarted for everyone else and giving them 
some emotional charge.”
Sophomore KeAndre Bates, who will be competing this 
week in the triple jump, will be facing one of the best triple 
jumpers in the world in Teddy Tamgho. Tamgho represents France and is the world’s sixth-best outdoor triple jumper of all-time. 
Most recently, he won the gold medal at the 2014 World 
Junior Championships in Athletics in Eugene, Oregon. 
“He is one of the best that have ever jumped in the triple 
jump,” Bates said. “I saw his name and I was like wow ... I’m just going to focus on myself because I can’t control what he does.”
With the relays beginning today, Holloway is looking 
forward to seeing his athletes respond to not only the high-level of competition, but also their first opportunity to run on Percy Beard Track in front of a home crowd this season.
“We have always run well here, so I don’t know why this 
weekend would be any different,” Holloway said.
The Pepsi Florida Relays begin today at 2 p.m. with the 
running events and continue at 5 p.m. with the field events.
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgFlorida to host Pepsi 
Relays in season’s 
first home meet
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Brooke Austin high-fives a teammate during Florida’s 6-1 win over USF on Jan. 27 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
LSU’s coach played at FloridaTRACK AND FIELDTHURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
before being benched after a four-
interception performance against Marshall.
But Appleby believes his expe-
rience — among Florida’s quarter-backs, he has the most by far — is what makes him a valuable piece to 
the team.
“Once you’re out there and it’s 
live and you’re in front of 100,000 (people), there’s no pretending,” 
Appleby said. “I think the only way you can gain that experience is by being out there. 
“So it’s not new to me. I under-
stand what it takes to prepare, I understand what it is to be under the lights, I understand what it is to stand in there.”
With four players in the mix, the 
competition for the starting signal caller position will be heated, but Appleby said he didn’t come to Flor-ida to ride the bench. He came to 
Gainesville with two goals in mind, 
and both goals would be difficult to accomplish from the sidelines.
“Number one, I want to compete 
for a championship and I want to 
play at the absolute highest level,” 
Appleby said. “Number two, I want to prepare myself and get around great players and coaches and have 
an opportunity to play at the next 
level.”
He isn’t thinking about the com-
petition with the other quarter-backs, whom he says he has a great 
relationship with, but he doesn’t 
lack confidence in his own ability.
“I take those experiences good 
and bad and have been (able) to de-
velop into who I am today to help 
this team win a championship.”
@graham_hack24
ghack@alligator.orgSIDEBAR,  from pg 17Appleby feels his biggest 
strength is his experience
“(Davis) is definitely making sure I know 
he’s on the field,” Thompson said. “I’ve had 
some ‘Welcome to the (Southeastern Con-
ference)’ moments, but I’ve also had some 
‘I’m here in the SEC’ moments. It’s the best of both worlds.”
And while Thompson is a raw talent — 
he's still learning to lower his pad level, run in between blocks and read defenses to make timely cuts through the tackles — his teammates and coaches believe he can be a large contributor once he becomes more 
polished, not unlike former UF running back 
Matt Jones.
Jones, who currently plays in the NFL for 
the Washington Redskins, was built similar-
ly to Thompson while at Florida. In his last 
year at UF in 2014, Jones was 6-foot-2, 235 pounds and led the team with 817 rushing yards while scoring six touchdowns.  
“That’s a good comparison,” Florida run-
ning backs coach Tim Skipper said. “They’re 
both taller backs that you’re kind of looking 
for in this league.”
Even with Thompson’s large stature and 
the comparisons to Jones, the expectations for the junior college transfer entering his 
first season in the SEC are fairly small.
But with no clear-cut starter in Florida’s 
backfield, Thompson is looking to bulldoze 
his way into a significant role come fall.
“He’s a big giant. ... You see guys like, I 
don’t want to tackle this dude, but they got to,” Scarlett said of Thompson. “It’s getting everyone better.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 17Thompson is 
built similarly to Matt Joneshappen. But I want the focus and the intent 
to be there.”
Two days after losing their focus in Lex-
ington, the Gators proved their commitment to O’Sullivan — and themselves.
Facing No. 12 Florida State in front of a 
raucous crowd of more than 9,000 fans at the Baseball Grounds of Jacksonville, No. 2 
Florida battled its way to a 3-2 win, its 10th 
come-from-behind victory of the year.
“(The coaches) showed us the problems 
that we were doing,” sophomore Mike Rivera said, “and we were just out there trying to solve them. … Our main focus was just to listen to them because obviously they know what they are doing and to just play each and every inning the same way. Play hard.
“Don’t change whether you’re going good 
or bad.”
Florida showcased that consistency and 
resiliency Tuesday.
The freshman duo of Jackson Kowar and 
Brady Singer held down the mound for eight innings before closer Shaun Anderson sealed the victory with a perfect ninth inning.
Rivera set the tone with a two-run homer 
in the second, his team-leading sixth of the season.
A relay throw from Jeremy Vasquez to 
Dalton Guthrie to JJ Schwarz in the fourth in-ning saved the game and sent Florida’s dug-out into a frenzy.
Their focus was back.“I think the two losses were probably 
the best thing that, honestly, has happened 
to us,” said Singer, who responded from his 
10th-inning walk-off wild pitch against Ken-tucky on Sunday with three of his best in-nings on Tuesday. “We were kind of cruising and we were getting too comfortable.”
Now, the Gators are playing like they have 
everything to lose. No game can be taken for granted.
And with 10 of UF’s next 11 games coming 
against top-25 opponents, including a three-game set this weekend against top-ranked Texas A&M, that mentality will be critical to coming out on top.
“Although it’s painful, I think we all need-
ed to be put in check a little bit,” O’Sullivan 
said. “Myself, all the coaches, all the players, 
we all needed to be put in check.”
As players signed autographs and interact-ed with fans after the win on Tuesday, smiles adorned their faces.
After facing the first real test of adversity 
this season, the Gators earned the hard-fought win they needed.
And if the players truly heard O’Sullivan’s 
message, he knew it would only be a matter of time before they turned their game back around.“I’m smart enough to know that we’re a 
really good team,” O’Sullivan said, “but if we can focus and have some determination like we did (against Florida State), boy we’ll be tough to beat.”
Jordan McPherson is a sports writer. 
You can contact him at jmcpherson@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @J_McPherson1126.
COLUMN,  from pg 17Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Austin Appleby passes the ball during practice on March 9 at the Sanders Practice Fields. 
Luis T orres / Alligator Staff
Kevin O'Sullivan (right) visits the mound during Florida's 4-3 win over Missouri on 
March 18 at McKethan Stadium. 
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2016
The Univ ersity of Florida AHE C Program pr ovides y ou with all the  tools y ou nee d to quit!
Program covers all forms of tobacco.
Sponsored by the UF AHEC Tobacco Free Florida Cessation Program and the Florida Department of Health.
 More than DOUBLES your chances of success!
 Includes FREE nicotine patches/gum/lozenges!
 Convenient ON- and OFF-CAMPUS locations!
Call 352.265.9569 to ﬁnd out more.
Did You Know?
Learn to Live
Without Tobacco.
Help is FREE!
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
On the floor, sophomore gym-
nast Grace McLaughlin sets the 
tone. 
This season, the Allen, Texas, 
native has found her niche as the leadoff performer for Florida’s third-ranked floor unit, paving 
the way for others to follow her 
path.  
In her community, she oper-
ates in much the same capacity. 
On Tuesday, McLaughlin re-
ceived Florida’s Presidential Ser-vice Award, an accolade bestowed upon students who actively give back to their community through 
volunteer service. 
“I’m absolutely blessed to 
even have the honor of that,” 
McLaughlin said. “I really love helping the community and going 
out.”
The recognition comes after 
she was named to the Southeast-
ern Conference’s Community Ser-
vice Team on March 18. 
A passing glance at her résumé 
reveals just why she was selected. 
Since the beginning of the 
school year, McLaughlin has logged over 225 service hours, assisting at the annual Mak-
ing Strides Against Breast Can-cer Walk, the gymnastics team’s yearly Harvest Food Drive, the 
university-sponsored Climb For 
Cancer and UF Health’s Caleb’s Pitch Syringe Art Painting event, among other functions. 
Perhaps her most impactful ex-
periences, though, were the more 
than 160 hours she clocked as a 
volunteer with the Florida Diabe-tes Camp. 
“It was probably the most 
amazing experience of my life,” she said. “I love kids, and the 
camp is focused around center-
ing (activities) for kids that have Type-1 Diabetes and providing a safe environment for them.”
Her passion for working with children shone through in her daily responsibilities at the camp, where she readily assisted her campers with their medical needs 
and led them in an assortment of 
activities. 
“It’s out in Deland (Florida), 
(on) Lake Winona, so we do ca-
noeing, rock climbing, archery, 
and all this other stuff, just like naturey stuff. They love swim-ming,” McLaughlin said. 
“I think it’s just a great en-
vironment for them. I gave 11 girls in my cabin a summer they wouldn’t forget, and that was kinda something that I wanted to 
do.”
Juggling school, sports and 
service is no easy feat. But for 
McLaughlin, the feeling of help-ing those in need justifies the sac-
rifice.
“For me, volunteering is some-
thing I do from my heart,” she 
said. “Getting recognition for it is 
also really awesome, and I hope 
that I can influence other people to do the same things that I’m do-ing. 
“It’s kinda like, I can do it as 
an athlete, but I can also do it as a person. And that’s very important for me.”
@aljb95
alopez@alligator.orgMcLaughlin making impact on, off the mat for Florida
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Grace McLaughlin performs her floor routine during Florida’s win over North Carolina on March 11 in 
the O’Connell Center. 
She won the Presidential Service Award