By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
By next week, one fortunate 
Florida student will win a semes-
ter’s worth of free Uber rides.
Until Sept. 7, the ride-sharing 
company is accepting entries to win $1,600 worth of rides, which the 
company has marketed as a semes-
ter’s worth of transportation, ac-
cording to a press release.
UF students are facing off against 
students from Florida State Univer-
sity, the University of Central Flori-
da and nine other colleges and uni-versities, according to the release.
The company, which is holding 
the lottery across the country, chose 
UF based on the app’s popularity in 
the Gainesville market.
To participate in the contest, 
students 18 years or older must download the Uber app using their 
student email and follow a prompt 
telling them how to enter. Current 
users must conﬁ  rm their student email via the app, according to the 
release.
Users can receive an additional 
entry into the sweepstakes by shar-ing their referral code and telling 
someone else to sign up, according 
to the release.
At the Turlington Plaza bus stop 
Monday afternoon, Helena Wegen-er said winning Uber’s sweepstakes 
would mean no more busses for the rest of Fall.
The 18-year-old UF biology 
freshman, who often rides Regional 
Transit System busses to and from 
campus, said she would be excited 
to win the sweepstakes.
“I would deﬁ  nitely take an Uber, 
like, every day,” she said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 7 TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016
Luke Del Rio conﬁ  dent in UF oﬀ  ense
The Gators gave up an FBS-worst 45 sacks last 
season, pg.13
Runaway donkey to be auctioned oﬀ  
He was found in a woman’s yard Saturday, pg. 5
Chick-ﬁ  l-A giving away week of free chicken
The Southwest Archer Road location will give away coupons Wednesday, pg. 9Today is Primary Day
See our election guide and live coverage online.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
THE DOMINO EFFECT
From left: Peter Kleponis, 22, a UF economics senior; Alex Orta, 20, a UF business management junior; 
Antonio Casuso, 21, a UF advertising senior; and Ben Gropper, 20, a UF computer science junior, play dominoes on Monday afternoon on the Plaza of the Americas. The domino game, hosted by Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity, was organized for members to “meet new people, ” Casuso said.
“GATORS FOR TRUMP , ” 
“GATORS FOR HILLARY” 
SHIRTS BEING SOLD.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
When Thomas Reid began sell-
ing T-shirts promoting candidates for the upcoming U.S. elections, he did it to encourage a political atmosphere on campus. 
He’s sold more than 60 shirts 
that encourage “Gators,” or UF students, to show their support for  Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton. “Gators for Hillary” and “Gators for Trump,” the shirts read. 
But UF’s trademark regula-
tions, which extend to the word “Gators,” may prevent him from selling more. 
“I didn’t realize that would 
become an issue, just putting the word ‘Gators’ on a T-shirt,” the 20-year-old UF ﬁ  nance junior said. “We made sure not to use 
any of the ofﬁ  cial logos or fonts.”
UF owns the name “Gators” 
and alligator head logo, UF 
spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in an email. To sell clothing items with UF’s trademarks requires a license.
“UF is prohibited by federal 
election law to endorse any can-didate for federal elective ofﬁ  ce,” she said. “Students may not use ‘Gators for candidate’ because that would imply endorsement.”
Sikes said the university re-
mains neutral in political cam-paigns. 
When a conﬂ  ict concerning 
trademark occurs, Sikes said the university will “try to work with individuals or companies in an effort to resolve trademark or li- Student, administration 
clash over Gators T-shirts
THE ACTOR DIED MONDAY.
By Katelyn Newberg 
and Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writers
Gene Wilder, an American actor well-
known for roles in “Willy Wonka and the 
Chocolate Factory” and “Young Franken-stein,” died Monday at the age of 83.
Wilder’s nephew said he died from com-
plications from Alzheimer’s disease, accord-ing to the Associated Press.Charlie Mitchell, a UF assistant theatre 
professor, heard about the actor’s death dur-ing a faculty meeting Monday.
After a colleague broke the news, the 
room was deﬂ  ated with sadness, he said.
“It’s a huge loss,” Mitchell said. “He was 
a wonderful actor.”
Mitchell said he may introduce some of 
Wilder’s works into his theatre appreciation classes this week.
Jordan Peterson, a 22-year-old UF politi-
cal science senior, said he learned of Wild-er’s death from a friend’s text message. Af-ter conﬁ  rming the news online, he said he immediately listened to Wilder’s version of “Pure Imagination,” which the actor sang in “Willy Wonka.”
“I was taken aback,” Peterson said. “(I 
feel) a lot of sadness that he is gone.” 
Peterson said he ﬁ  rst watched “Willy 
Wonka” when he was 5 years old. He said Wilder, with his eccentric acting, greatly in-ﬂ  uenced his childhood.
“Some of the time he could be dead seri-
ous, and other times it was silly ridiculous-ness,” he said.Seamus Seery said hearing of Wilder’s 
death was like “an unpleasant truth.”
The UF telecommunication senior said 
he grew up watching Wilder’s movies with his mother and sisters. His mother’s favor-
ite movie was “Young Frankenstein,” but he 
thinks of “Willy Wonka” as the best.
“He was just so good in it,” the 21-year-
old said. “He was just so expressive and unique.”
mvassolo@alligator.org
knewberg@alligator.orgUF students, faculty mourn  loss of ‘Willy Wonka’ actor Gene Wilder Uber to give Florida student $1,600 in free rides
The contest ends Sept. 7
CAMPUS
SEE SHIRTS,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  89° LOW  73°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Free English Classes and 
Citizenship Classes
The Latina Women’s League 
is offering free English classes Tuesdays from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. until Nov. 8 at the Millhopper 
Branch Library. Anyone looking 
to improve their conversational 
English can attend. The league is also offering free citizenship 
classes every Thursday from 6 
p.m. to 7:30 p.m. from Sept. 8 to Oct. 20, at the library, during which attendees can learn about the process of citizenship. For more information, visit latinawo-mensleague.org.
‘Ashley’s Consent,’ a play about 
sexual assaultBrought to you by UF’s Center for Arts in Medicine and sponsored by the Dean of Students Office, the Office of Victim Services and the Student Health Care Center, “Ashley’s Consent” — running today, Wednesday and Thursday at the Newins-Ziegler Hall Breezeway — presents a story of sexual assault and all that fol-lows in an innovative multimedia format. After each performance, attendees can participate in a dis-cussion and debriefing with the cast, victim advocates and peer counselors. Learn more about the 
play and register for tickets online 
at shcc.ufl.edu/ashleys-consent.
RUB Entertainment’s Bling Out 
Your Bedroom
If you’re tired of being sur-
rounded by white walls in your 
room, come to Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment’s free event: Bling Out Your Bedroom. They will 
have mason jars, cork boards, 
wooden wall decor and more to 
spice up your room. The event will take place Wednesday in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom from 
6:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. Supplies 
will be limited.
GatorNights: Gator Tailgate
It’s time to get pumped for Gator 
football season, and GatorNights 
has you covered. GatorNights will 
host a Gator Tailgate on Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. and will feature tailgate games, live music and your favorite mascot, Albert. Show off your football knowl-edge, and outwit your fellow fans during Gator football trivia. Take the Gator spirit home with you by stuffing your own Gator.  “Neighbors 2: Sorority Rising” will play at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Our Midnight Munchies will be held in the Reitz Union food court 
and will feature a tailgate classic: 
swamp barbeque. GatorNights is 
always free for UF students with 
their Gator 1 Cards at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current 
students to participate and are al-
lowed to bring a maximum of one 
guest to the event.   
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  David Hoffman, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Hoffman, Amanda Price, 
                                                                                                 Kaelah Scheff , Michael Smith   
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 7
TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
By Rosanne Ramraj
Alligator Contributing Writer
For Hallie Uhrig, attending UF 
is a family tradition that began in 
1925. 
Her great-grandmother, Lassie 
Goodbread Black, was the ﬁ  rst fe-male student to enroll at the uni-versity, and the legacy continued. Uhrig’s grandmother, a majorette 
                 in the UF Fightin’ Gator Marching 
Band, graduated in 1958, and her 
mother, one of the ﬁ  rst to certify in hand therapy, graduated in 1983. 
Years of Gator cheerleading 
outﬁ  ts and orange-and-blue shoes 
later, it was expected that Uhrig would follow the UF tradition. But 
before she enrolled this summer as 
a UF architecture sophomore, she took a slight detour into rival ter-ritory by enrolling at Florida State 
University. 
Initially rejected from UF when 
she applied in high school, she 
stayed at FSU for a year before 
transferring.
While Uhrig was happy at FSU, 
having gone with high school friends and being part of the hon-
ors program, FSU’s architecture program only offered interior ar-chitectural design, not the full ar-
chitecture program offered at UF, 
Uhrig said.
“I didn’t even know I wanted 
to go into architecture until my 
Spring semester at FSU,” she said. 
“I was not upset or unhappy about 
going to FSU, rather really excited 
to possibly start my own legacy outside of the UF one.”
Sara Uhrig, Hallie’s mother, 
who majored in health science, 
said she encouraged her daughter 
to transfer to UF.
She said she wanted her daugh-
ter to carry on the line of Uhrig women who attended UF, even if 
she didn’t start as a freshman.
Carl Van Ness, the UF histori-
an, said legacy candidates used to 
have preference over other appli-
cants. But that no longer applies. 
During the 1920s, UF lacked di-
versity, he said. African-Americans couldn’t attend, and there were 
few Hispanic and Asian students. 
The Buckman Act of 1905 stipu-
lated that only men could attend 
UF, Van Ness said. FSU, known 
then as the Florida State College 
for Women, took female students. 
In 1925, Van Ness said, the 
Florida legislature passed an act 
allowing women to enroll at UF if 
they were 21 years or older, had 
completed two years of college and wanted to study agriculture, law or pharmacy. 
When Goodbread Black ﬁ  rst 
tried to enroll at UF that year, she was turned away. But she came 
back, enrolling the next day, Sara 
Uhrig said.Goodbread Black, married to a 
UF law student, earned her bach-
elor’s degree in agriculture before graduating in 1940 with three chil-dren, she said. Her daughter, Caro-
lyn Lucille Black, graduated with 
two children. Sara Uhrig, Carolyn’s daughter, graduated with a bach-
elor’s degree in health science. 
“The multigenerational Gator 
families, like Hallie’s, are an indi-
cation of an institution’s maturity 
and success,” Van Ness said.  
By coming to UF, Hallie Uhrig 
said she feels a kinship with her 
great-grandmother. After both be-ing turned away, they each came 
back.
“I am proud of my legacy, and it 
reminds me of what a strong family 
I come from, that we must always push boundaries and persevere for 
what we want,” she said. “I am 
sure my great-grandmother would 
have been proud of me.” F ormer FSU student keeps 90-year-old UF family legacy alive
Courtesy to the Alligator
From left: Sara Uhrig, Edna Black Hindson and Hallie Uhrig hold a photo from 1925 of Lassie Goodbread Black. The picture was taken at Smathers Library during a video interview on July 29.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Hallie Uhrig, a 19-year-old UF architecture sophomore, recently transferred to UF. She’s the fourth in her family to attend UF, with her great-grandmother being the ﬁ  rst woman to enroll.
4   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016
censing concerns.”
When asked about what would happen 
if a student made or sold shirts showing 
“Gators” endorsing a candidate, Sikes de-clined to explain general procedures or con-sequences. Instead, she said others phrases like “Gator students” could be used.
But student organization Gators 4 Hillary 
hasn’t had any issues with their namesake. 
Jake Best, the president of Gators 4 Hill-
ary, said the organization became official last Fall. There haven’t been any problems with the club using the word “Gators” to promote Clinton, he said. 
Gators 4 Hillary was approved over the 
past school year as an official club, he said. It’s in the final step of being renewed for this Fall, and he doesn’t think there should be any problem.  
Best said Reid reached out to the organi-
zation to create a partnership to sell “Gators for Hillary” shirts, but the club declined. The club plans to make and sell their own 
“Gators for Hillary” shirts at their meetings 
in the future, he said. 
However, Best said he would consider 
an alternative T-shirt design to follow UF’s 
regulations.
“I guess if that’s the law and they con-
tact me, we’ll have to change it,” he said. “I 
guess we can’t do anything about that.”   
Reid said he’s in the process of getting an 
official copyright for his designs, but he cur-
rently holds a “poor man’s copyright,” which 
he explained as mailing himself a copy of his 
work to have the post office stamp the date.  
Reid said if he couldn’t use the name 
“Gators,” he’d have to meet with his busi-
ness partner to plan out their next steps. 
“There’s really nothing harmful coming 
from what we’re doing,” he said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgSHIRTS,  from pg 1More than 60 shirts have been sold
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Thomas Reid, a 20-year-old UF finance junior, has designed two separate websites 
through which fellow UF students and alumni can order custom unisex T-shirts that, according to Reid “give fellow Gators a chance to channel their political beliefs and their school spirit at the same time. ”
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Otimara Garcia, 84, waits for her daughter Omi Risco, the owner of Omi’s T avern, to go home after the opening of the Cuban restaurant and bar. Garcia helped her daughter fold cutlery into napkins.
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
With a new name and business model, Omi’s Tav-
ern in downtown Gainesville opened its doors Monday morning.
Previously known as Omi’s Playa Azul, the Cuban 
restaurant and bar closed for about a month as it under-went remodeling.
In an effort to expand into an entertainment venue, 
the restaurant now has a stage, an improved sound sys-tem and an enlarged dining area among other aesthetic 
renovations, said Esteban Santamaria, the owner of Vida 
Social Productions, which partnered with the restaurant.
Santamaria said the restaurant, located at 101 SE Sec-
ond Place, will begin to host weekly themed events, like Salsa Tuesdays and Comedy Thursdays.
“There is nothing like this place in Gainesville,” said 
Omi Risco, the restaurant’s owner. “I just want to see a room full of people dancing.” 
After beginning a catering company 25 years ago, 
Risco opened Omi’s Playa Azul about a year ago, she said. The restaurant was in business for about 10 months before closing.
And although Omi’s has undergone several changes 
in the past month, Risco said the restaurant will continue serving its signature Cuban cuisine.
Louise Yariv, 66, and her friend Kathy Robinson, 57, 
ate Cuban cuisine for the first time in about a year at the 
restaurant’s grand opening Monday afternoon.
“We’ll be back,” Yariv said.With new name, entertainment, 
Omi’s Tavern opens downtown
THE GRAHAM 
CENTER IS HOSTING 
THE DISCUSSION TO 
ENCOURAGE DIALOGUE 
ABOUT THE TOPIC.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer 
After more than a decade of 
research, Andrea Dutton, a UF 
assistant professor in the De-partment of Geological Sciences, 
hopes to inform UF students and 
the public about climate change 
and the rising sea level. 
“This is just kind of the first 
step in a very long process that 
we have set into motion,” she 
said. “We need to be addressing 
it rather than ignoring it.” 
That’s why she’s participat-
ing in “Explore More: Sea Level 
Rise,” a free discussion hosted by 
the Bob Graham Center for Public 
Service at 6 p.m. today in Pugh Hall. The discussion is designed to create dialogue about sea level 
rise from local experts. 
Both Dutton and Kathryn 
Frank, an assistant professor in 
the UF Department of Urban and Regional Planning, will speak about the impact of sea level ris-
ing as part of a partnership be-
tween the Graham Center and the 
UF Office of Research.
Kevin Baron, the civic engage-
ment coordinator for the center, 
said the topic of sea level rise is 
relevant to Floridians because of 
the state’s below-sea-level status.
“The potential impact from all 
of this could be huge,” he said. “This is an issue in an area that 
I think students especially should 
be engaged with.”
Dutton said she hopes that 
people who attend think about 
the bigger problem of climate change and how they impact the environment daily. 
“I think people don’t really re-
alize the commitment that we’re making with our current activi-ties,” she said.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org UF professors will 
lead discussion on 
sea level rise
UPCOMING GRAHAM CENTER EVENTS:
• Sept. 8 : “Great Storytellers Series: Love Wins”
• Sept. 13 : “After Orlando: Managing Fears and  
Welcoming Diversity”
• Sept. 15 : “BREXIT: UK & Europe’s Politico-economic  
Future”
• Sept. 20 : “Oh, Florida!”
• Sept. 26 : “Scott Ellsworth: The Secret Game”
• Sept. 27 : “National Voter Registration Day”LOCAL
“W e need to be addressing
it rather than ignoring it.”
Andrea Dutton
UF assistant professorBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce is looking for the owner of a 
runaway donkey.
A woman found the brown don-
key Saturday morning as it wan-dered on her land in the 17300 block of W. Newberry Road in Gainesville, said Art Forgey, a spokesman for the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce. The woman report-ed the animal to deputies at about 12:45 p.m.
As ACSO Rural Services deputies 
searched for the donkey’s owner Saturday, it stayed overnight on the woman’s property. Deputies hauled it to ACSO’s Livestock Impound Yard on Sunday, Forgey said.
For the next 30 days or so, the 
sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce will advertise for the donkey’s owners to claim the miss-ing animal, he said. If the owners are not found, the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce will post an auction notice and sell the donkey about two weeks later.
Forgey said he doesn’t know 
how much someone might pay for a runaway donkey.
“It just depends,” Forgey said. 
“You know, cattle usually brings 
quite a bit. This may be our ﬁ  rst 
donkey.”
Deputies haven’t named the don-
key or announced its gender, Forgey 
said.
The sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce is asking any-
one with information on the don-
key’s owner to call 352-955-1818.
“Someone is missing a pretty ani-
mal that they’d like to have back,” 
Forgey said, “and we’d like to re-
unite it.”Tom Sullivan, a 28-year-old Ala-
chua County resident, said he is in-
terested in buying the donkey and 
introducing it to his herd of about 
450 cattle and goats.
After learning about the donkey’s 
escape Monday through a post on 
the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce’s Facebook page, 
Sullivan said he wasn’t surprised 
the animal had wandered away 
from home. 
Old tree branches in the area rou-
tinely fall and knock down fences, 
which sometimes leads to similar 
escapes, he said.
While he hopes the sheriff’s of-
ﬁ  ce ﬁ  nds the owners, Sullivan said 
he doesn’t want to see the animal 
go to auction. He’d rather let it live 
among his 550 acres of land between Newberry and the city of Alachua.
“I’ve always just sort of wanted 
a donkey (on my land),” he said. “I 
just think it would be sort of cool to 
expand the herd a bit.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgTUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
SHE’S THE FOURTH WOMAN 
TO WIN THE AWARD IN ITS
 26-YEAR HISTORY.
By Dylan Dixon 
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF professor became the fourth woman 
to receive an environmental science award in 
recognition of her decadeslong career.
Nancy D. Denslow, a professor of envi-
ronmental toxicology in both the UF College of Medicine and College of Veterinary Medi-
cine, received the 2016 Founders Award from the Society of Environmental Toxicology and 
Chemistry on Aug. 26. 
“I was surprised and very happy, because 
it really puts into perspective all the hard work that the students have done over the years,” 
Denslow said. “It really validates the whole area of research that we’ve been doing.”
The international group gives the award to 
“an individual with an outstanding career in the environmental sciences,” according to its 
website. 
In the mid-1990s, she studied ﬁ  sh with 
tumors and discovered biomarkers, or sub-stances that indicate disease or infection. She 
found indications that the ﬁ  sh had been ex-posed to environmental es-
trogen. 
The ﬁ  ndings sparked 
her curiosity in studying and focusing on marine 
pollutants like pesticides, she said. She’s studied 
wildlife that have formed 
mutations or cancerous 
cells by using molecular biomarkers to ana-
lyze changes in the genes that cause them.
Stephen M. Roberts, the program director 
of the UF Center for Environmental and Hu-man Toxicology, said he admired Denslow for 
her hard work over the years.“I think it’s a wonderful award for her, and 
we’re very proud of her,” Roberts said. “Other faculty at this center think the world of her.”
Denslow said she’s proud of the break-
throughs she and her team have had so far, and they’re looking forward to more progress in the future.
Although Denslow is unsure if she’s the 
ﬁ  rst UF professor to win the award, she said being the fourth woman to receive it reﬂ  ected 
well on her accomplishments.
“It just shows that good science triumphs, 
and it doesn’t matter what sex you are,” Denslow said.  UF professor recognized for work in environmental science  
Runaway  donkey to be auctioned oﬀ  
Courtesy to the Alligator 
After a woman found a runaway donkey on Saturday morning 
on her land in Gainesville, the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce is looking for the donkey’s owner.Missing 
donkey to be auc-tioned by sheriﬀ  ’s of-
ﬁ  ce jIt was found Saturday
“Someone is missing a pretty 
animal they’d like to have back, 
and we’d like to reunite it.”
Art Forgey
ACSO spokesman
Denslow
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Saying goodbye to the anarchist Gawker.com
For the last week, the scandal that plagued 
Gawker.com has remained silent, its front page littered with parting words from edi-tors and writers alike. Their headlines in-clude, “How Guilty Should I Feel?” “Gawk-
er Was Murdered by Gaslight” and “What Was Gawker?” These ﬁ  nal articles read like obituar-ies, mourning the impending shutdown of a site that, according to Gawker.com writer Hamilton Nolan, was, “anarchist journalism at its ﬁ  nest.”
Anarchist, indeed. A past Alligator opinions 
editor ﬁ  rst introduced me to Gawker.com, and I was instantly drawn to its rebellious and profane take-no-prisoners approach to online journalism. No one would 
ever mistake Gawker.com for The New York Times, The 
Guardian or its other more pedigreed cousins, as the gossip-news site lacked the well-groomed air of those esteemed publications. Gawker.com shirked traditional journalism’s high standards and conservative ethics, often resulting in morally questionable stories. It also had way more instanc-es of the word“f---” sprinkled among its headlines.
The divisive site’s downfall began in 2007 when it 
claimed Silicon Valley billionaire and PayPal co-founder Pe-
ter Thiel was gay. It then sped up in 2012 following Gawk-
er.com’s release of WWE star and fellow Pinellas County, Florida, resident Hulk Hogan’s sex tape. Thiel silently ﬁ  -nanced Hogan’s legal battle, resulting in a jury award of $140 million against Gawker Media and, consequently, its founder, Nick Denton. Both Denton and Gawker Me-dia ﬁ  led for bankruptcy and, thus, ushered in the latter’s auction off to Spanish broadcast company Univision for $135 million. Shortly after winning the bankruptcy auction, 
Univision announced that while Gawker.com’s sister sites 
Jezebel, Deadspin, Gizmodo, Lifehacker, Jalopnik and Ko-taku would live on, Gawker.com itself would be shut down.
Thiel’s battle against Gawker.com has spawned count-
less numbers of think pieces and arguments about new media, the First Amendment, privacy rights and how they interact in a world more connected than ever before. In his guest opinions piece published by The New York Times, Thiel painted Gawker.com as a reckless coali-tion motivated by “cruelty and recklessness,” constantly violating privacy rights. Gawker.com branded Thiel as a malicious, revenge-seeking billionaire infringing on First Amendment rights.
Gawker.com undoubtedly exercised ques-
tionable ethics in its journalistic approach. Tak-ing its tagline, “Today’s gossip is tomorrow’s news,” to heart, the site’s stories often took on the tone of an outsider looking in, giving us the harsh reality that the insiders often smoothed over. As a result, Gawker.com courted contro-
versy and bad choices with astounding frequency, includ-ing its 2015 story outing a New York magazine executive 
who allegedly offered to hire a male escort on a trip to Chi-
cago. But these missteps were juxtaposed with harsh but necessary insights into the stories other journalistic sources deemed too controversial to address, such as Bill Cosby’s public history of sexual assault.
And then there was Thiel’s role. Is he a billionaire cru-
sader, taking on the reckless gossip site that trampled on countless public ﬁ  gures’ privacy rights? Or is he a Silicon-Valley plutocrat, hell-bent on destroying the entity that hurt 
his feelings? Despite the internet’s contention that he must 
be one or the other, I have yet to be convinced it’s that black and white.
What I am sure of is that I’ll miss Gawker.com and its 
crass, harsh and offensive voice. I’ll miss editorials detail-ing the widespread abuse of university adjunct professors and articles exploring the logistics behind Trump’s ridicu-lous hairpiece sitting side by side on the same webpage. In Nolan’s ﬁ  nal post on Gawker.com, he pointed out, “Most 
journalism jobs exist on a continuum between audience 
and freedom,” on which you either get to say what you want or have people read it, but not both. Gawker.com proved to be the exception, and whether that was to its beneﬁ  t or detriment is for you to decide.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.Myths un-mythed: 
old age
We live in a world full of myths. Never mind the tales of Japanese-born mutant animals that enticed mil-lions of us to actually leave our homes over the summer and systematically enslave them within our smartphones or the tales of food items having wild 
sex orgy parties in supermarkets (don’t make the same mistake as our opinions editor and watch “Sausage Party” with your parents, thinking it’s only a comedy ﬂ  ick). 
No, we’re addressing common beliefs so unfounded they 
may as well be considered myths. This week, we tackle ageism.
Ageism is everywhere in our society. You see it probably 
most blatantly in politics as a means of attacking certain can-didates. Take Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., for instance: In 2008, when he ran against then-Ohio Sen. Barack Obama, he was 
slammed again and again for being too old to run for president. 
McCain was 71 at the time. Compare that to our current presi-dential candidates, Hillary Clinton, 68, and Donald Trump, 70: They’ve all run presidential campaigns at effectively the same age, but why aren’t Trump and Clinton being viliﬁ  ed for their age the way McCain was?
Well, because age doesn’t really have anything to do with 
effectively handling the presidency. If people weren’t hung up on nonlinear Hillary’s crookedness or Trump’s — well, every-
thing — you would deﬁ  nitely start hearing about how their age 
makes them incompetent or unﬁ  t for the job. How can we say this so conﬁ  dently? Just look at what happened to the best hope this campaign had to offer: Bobby Jindal, clearly. Does anyone even remember that guy?
For real, though: Bernie Sanders. Even for those of you who 
don’t favor him, you have to admit it’s hard to actually dislike the man the way you would any other politician. So to attack him and his campaign, what did much of the media and his 
political opponents resort to? His age.
Every pundit and his or her mother referred to him as “a 
74-year-old socialist” when he announced his candidacy, and 
the Clinton campaign and surrogates were sure to drive home the point of Sanders’ potentially poor health as he continued to challenge Clinton during the race. Meanwhile, there’s only a six-year age gap between Clinton and Sanders.
Even outside of presidential politics, just look at the way 
some of our leaders talk about social security: “It’s too costly,” 
“We need to cut it,” “Government handouts are ruining Ameri-
ca.” Meanwhile, the number of seniors working after retirement age continues to grow, and likewise, our economy will increas-ingly depend on their contributions: According to U.S. Census Bureau estimates, by 2050 the population of Americans age 65 and older will account for about one-ﬁ  fth of the population.
This isn’t the “agequake” or “demographic time bomb” 
many claim an aging population to be; it’s an opportunity for us to shift how we view our elders. America’s senior population 
isn’t meant to retire and disappear into nursing homes for the 
rest of their lives, subject to less-than-regular visits from their grandkids who, let’s face it, are kind of annoying anyway.
Bernie Sanders, at 74 years old, ran a grueling three-rallies-
a-day presidential campaign and changed the country. Three of the four members of the Red Hot Chili Peppers are in their 50s, and two still have Greek-god bodies; Flea, the bassist, 53, is still running around like a maniac on stage, doing handstands and jumping off of amps. Joan Rivers, who died in 2014 at 81 years 
old, was still one of the most active comedians in the country. 
And there are so many more examples.
Age isn’t a limit or a setback; it’s an opportunity to raise the 
bar of greatness in this country, and we need to start treating it as such.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
You’ve seen “SpongeBob 
SquarePants,” right? There’s, like, no way you haven’t. I’m pretty con-ﬁ  dent in saying it deﬁ  ned a genera-tion — that’s not too far-fetched. 
“SpongeBob SquarePants” was a show ﬁ  lled with wit, character and charm. The comedy was smart despite its status as a children’s show, so we look back on it with warm re-gard rather than just with nostalgia goggles. But, its quality has declined in past years; the show is really a conch shell of its former self, and it’s something I’d like to analyze.
I’m set on writing this for the same reason 
I write all of my columns: I want to convince you comedy is important, is powerful and can be discussed intelligently for society’s beneﬁ  t. And, to me, looking at what made us laugh as kids is more important than look-ing at what makes us laugh now. Children’s entertainment has a pretty bad reputation for being mindless. “SpongeBob SquarePants” was an exception up until about its ﬁ  fth sea-son, when the show’s creator, Stephen Hill-enburg, left the show and the animation pro-cess changed from hand-drawing to digitally animating.
So, what changed? What can 
we see in the show that reﬂ  ects the drop in quality and com-edy? This week, let’s talk about the visual design of “SpongeBob SquarePants.”
Everything’s so vibrant now. 
Seriously. Early episodes are much darker; it feels more relaxed. Early “SpongeBob SquarePants” was much less whimsical and much wittier. The darker col-ors kept a focus on dialogue and kept the energy controlled. A more controlled atmo-sphere is really what made those smarter jokes bite, and it made the zanier moments that much more zany. SpongeBob’s yellow hue has become so much brighter, too. This wouldn’t be an issue if the backgrounds weren’t so over-saturated as well. Any given shot in a recent episode proves to be pretty messy, because every part of the screen de-mands your attention.
Hand-drawn animation has this neat quality that makes foreground el-ements easily identiﬁ  able because they’re drawn much more simply than background elements — af-ter all, foreground elements have to be drawn many times over in animation, so they need to be easy to draw. In the digitally ani-mated episodes of “SpongeBob SquarePants,” characters no lon-ger stand out in the foreground, so 
a lot of the visual comedy gets bogged down. And although you can argue that this makes for a more visually cohesive world — where it’s not obvious what’s being animated and what isn’t — the shots lack direction and fo-cus.
The transition to digital animation al-
lowed the artists to easily incorporate three-quarter poses into their shots, because these traditionally complex poses could now be easily replicated. Eventually, the digital animation allowed any character to be seen from any angle, which provides some ﬂ  ex-ibility in how certain scenes are staged. The side effect of this, however, is the characters no longer feel like they’re posing; their block-ing feels more organic, but less purposeful.
Sometimes crisper animation produces 
less potent visual comedy. You know how Peter Grifﬁ  n from “Family Guy” falls down the stairs in a series of poses rather than ﬂ  uidly? That effect comes from the anima-tion team cutting frames of animation, so Peter literally jumps from one position to an-other as he falls. That process makes each impact and each pose more potent — and therefore funnier. Early episodes of “Sponge-Bob SquarePants” make full use of cutting frames; not only does it look better in some cases, but it saves time for the animators.
I am by no means well versed in anima-
tion, nor can I claim to understand any me-dium of visual art. That being said, I want to look at the show’s sound design next week. I know even less about that.
Michael Smith is a clod. A clod is a lump 
of dirt or clay. His column appears on Tues-days as dirt and on Wednesdays as Clay Aiken. 
A conch shell of its former self: An analysis of 'SpongeBob SquarePants'Column
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.org
For those of you who are not acquainted 
with how we philosophy majors be-have, let me familiarize you: Have you ever met someone who argues simply because they can? This weekend I was 
sitting with some fellow philosophy under-graduates in our natural habitat, a sanitar-ily adequate dive bar, talking about "college relationships." Are they superﬁ  cial? Do they contribute to the development of maturity? As Hillary Clinton’s social-media intern would ask, “WTF is up wit dat lol #ImWitH-urrrr.”
Naturally, we looked up the statistics. 
One in three people ﬁ  nd love within a 5-mile radius. On average, someone’s partner lives within a 41-mile radius upon meeting. While 16 percent would not mind traveling to see their better half after realizing that person was “the one,” 18 percent said they exclu-sively look for relationships within 24 miles.
These statistics suggest those who settle 
down usually do so within their commu-
nity  — communities that presumably share 
cultural factors like education, values, reli-giosity, etc. This is relatively un-surprising. People with a lot in common and who were raised to share fundamental character traits are naturally going to pair off. But 
our generation was raised on Dis-
ney morality: the notion that we are all unique snowﬂ  akes waiting to meet another snowﬂ  ake equally as unique.
How do we reconcile this ro-
mantic notion of fate and soul-mate discov-ery with the seemingly obvious fact of cul-tural conditioning?
As is typical with questions we millenni-
als ask, the answer lies in smartphones. In Disney morality, we say a character is “fall-ing” in love. I don’t believe that phrase is mere coincidence. When someone is “head over heels” for someone else (the imagery implies a pretty gnarly fall, dude), he or she is literally not oriented correctly. Up is down, left is right and everything is a blur. 
This “fall” is a truly traumatic experience by 
which one legitimately reorients his or her life. But we, my fellow millenni-als particularly, are waning off this lifestyle. Our generation has engaged in more one-night stands than any generation before us.
But how do we facilitate such 
encounters? In the world of in-stant gratiﬁ  cation and with smart-phones becoming almost an exten-sion of our bodies (smartwatches scare the s--- out of me for that 
reason), apps like Tinder, Bumble and, my personal favorite, JSwipe (shalom) become a necessary part of that process. They provide 
the same superﬁ  cial experiences: physically 
pleasurable and emotionally ﬂ  exible (there-fore safe). Essentially, they allow someone to experience “love” without the actual fall.
Yet there remains a signiﬁ  cant portion of 
us who reject these apps in lieu of forming a long-term, monogamous and intense re-lationship. For these people, the thought of “destiny” and “ﬁ  nding a soul mate” really re-
ﬂ  ects their maturity, willingness to compro-
mise and thirst for a calmer, less tumultuous and varied lifestyle: the life of someone “set-tling” down.
I have a hard time evaluating which life-
style is more “worth it.” To claim that one is superior to another is to miss the point. 
You could view the life of calmness as seden-
tary and complacent, or you could view it as stable and resilient. You could view the life of excitement as reckless and youthful or you could view it as practical and careful.
All I’m saying (conﬁ  dently) is that in our 
secular and well connected society, to as-sume you could live an emotionally fulﬁ  lling life with an eternal partner whom you met 
here at UF, out of the seven billion people on 
this planet, is equally as naive as assuming you could live an emotionally fulﬁ  lling life by not investing those emotions in someone at all or inadequately investing those emo-tions in several different people.
Love is complex, and relationships are 
strange. Perhaps there’s comfort in knowing these questions have no answers.
Zachary Lee is a UF philosophy senior. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.
In tennis,‘Love’ means... absolutely nothing. Where does that leave us?Column
Zachary Lee
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
ABOVE : Students wait in line at Chipotle on West University 
Avenue on Monday evening to purchase a meal that will 
help benefit the Days For Girls International nonprofit organization. According to the organizers, hygiene kits focus on supplying proper products to girls all over the world in order to help them stay in school and avoid “child marriage, human trafficking and worse. ”
Zachariah Chou / Alligator Staff
LEFT:  Michael Rodgers, a 22-year-old member of the 
Sequential Artists Workshop, cuts into an enchilada while UF first-year medical student Lucia Gonzalez-Llanos, 22, cuts into a burrito. The Sequential Artists Workshop is a nonprofit organization offering instruction in comic art, graphic novels and visual storytelling.
HUMANITARIAN 
LUNCH
Blaze Pizza, Chipotle Mexican Grill and Tijuana Flats 
organized different fundraisers to donate to health and 
nonprofit organizations  Monday afternoon. Blaze Pizza supported the Academy of Managed Care Pharmacy, Chipotle supported the Days for Girls International organization and Tijuana Flats supported a UF College of Pharmacy and College of Medicine trip to bring medications to Ecuador.   Robert Bruns, an 18-year-old finance freshman, ate at Tijuana Flats, but he said he didn’t know the fundraiser was going on. “I think that’s so cool, ” he said. “I actually went to Peru last year on a mission trip, so I can relate. It’s my first time at Tijuana, so I’m glad it was tonight. ”
 Kelsey Bona / Alligator Staff 
From left: Second-year UF medical students Xavier Williams, 25, and Brad Collins, 23, enjoy their 
discounted meal together as part of the Academy of Managed Care Pharmacy fundraiser at Blaze Pizza on Southwest Archer Road on Monday afternoon.
Zachariah Chou / Alligator Staff 
From left: Second-year UF medical students Andrew Jin, 23, Michael Setteducato, 25, and Maia Tinder, 23, converse with their friends and eat at Tijuana Flats on Monday afternoon. Setteducato was eating a chicken-and-refried-bean quesadilla, trying it alongside ﬁ  ve different hot sauces during the Project HEAL fundraiser. Proceeds went toward raising money for a UF College of Pharmacy and College of Medicine trip to bring medicine to Ecuador.TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
A group of patient students may 
receive a week’s worth of Chick-ﬁ  l-A 
food Wednesday night.
To christen the beginning of a new 
Fall semester, Chick-ﬁ  l-A staff at the Southwest Archer Road location will give away coupons for six days of free chicken nuggets and/or sandwiches to the ﬁ  rst 100 students who line up 
at the restaurant beginning at 5 p.m., 
said Joe Wendling, the restaurant’s supervisor and marketing assistant.
Winners will also win a free T-shirt 
and will be entered into a rafﬂ  e to win 
the Tailgate Centering Package, which 
consists of a chicken nugget tray and  a gallon of sweet tea, he said.
The giveaway marks the begin-
ning of the restaurant’s College Nights 
events, which have been held every 
Wednesday night during Fall and Spring semesters for about two years, Wendling said.
“This year, we decided to make 
our ﬁ  rst College Night into a big kick-off event to coincide with the ﬁ  rst Gator football game this weekend,” Wendling said.
Students are required to show a 
valid student ID to qualify. If more than 100 people are waiting in line by 5 p.m., the coupons will be rafﬂ  ed off, he said. Coupons are only valid at the Southwest Archer Road location.
Wendling said he expects about 
2,000 students to show up because college crowds tend to love anything free — especially food.
Mark Maffei, a 19-year-old UF 
business administration junior, said although he ﬁ  nds Chick-ﬁ  l-A’s food 
delicious, he won’t show up Wednes-
day for the giveaway.
Waiting in a snaking line for free 
fast-food meals is not worth his time, 
he said.
“I want to go, but I’m not, only be-
cause of how busy and crazy it will 
be in there, and I just don’t have the 
time,” Maffei said. 
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org    Chick-ﬁ  l-A giving away 
week of free chicken
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police charged 
a local man Sunday afternoon 
with possession of two pounds of hemp near Krishna House.
At about 2:54 p.m., Brandon 
King Campbell, 35, was found asleep in his car about 400 feet from the house of worship, ac-cording to a police report. Hare Krishna followers serve vegan lunches on UF’s campus every day.
Police found the car parked 
at the intersection of Northwest 14th Drive and Northwest Third Avenue, according to the re-port. It was parked within 1,000 
feet of the United Church of 
Gainesville.While members of Alachua 
County Fire Rescue Services checked to make sure Campbell was conscious, police searched his car, according to the report. After ﬁ  nding a small amount of hemp in his passenger seat, po-lice found 823.6 grams — or 1.8 pounds — of the substance in 
the backseat.
Hemp is a strain of marijuana sometimes used for industrial 
purposes.
Campbell told police the 
hemp belonged to him and an-other person, whom he refused to name, according to the report. He said he bought the hemp for personal use and that it was cheaper to buy in bulk, accord-
ing to the report.
Police charged him with pos-sessing marijuana with the in-
tent to sell within 1,000 feet of a church and possessing drug paraphernalia.
Authorities took Campbell to 
the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in 
lieu of a $40,000 bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org 
 GPD: Man found asleep with hemp near Krishna HouseMax Chesnes / Alligator Staff
About 20 students wait in line at the Chik-ﬁ  l-A Express located in the Hub on Monday afternoon.
 
• Every Wednesday night this semester,
Chick-ﬁ  l-A on Southwest Archer Road will 
host de-stress events for students.
• There will be bingo, karaoke and BOGO meal 
discounts.• Events are from 7:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. and will continue during Spring
• Students must show valid college ID to 
participate.Coming up at Chick-ﬁ  l-A
Campbell
TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
1BR in 4BR/4BA furn apt. Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Male student pref. Short term lease option avail. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigish-anyc@yahoo.com   9-2-16-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.2BR/1BA in NW. Available 9/1/16. Comes with W/D. New kitchen, bath, wood floors. Large backyard. $675/mo. Please leave message 352-371-3473     8-31-16-9-2
2/1 Brandywine $650/mo + $650 dep. Hi spd internet & water incl. <1mi to UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopping. On bus route. Avail Aug 15. Text 352.284.2654 or jrfong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-2
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $500/
BR or $1500/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    
8-31-16-8-2
Cute & Clean! Vintage 1BR in quiet NW 
area. Perfect for grad students or profession -
als. Short hop to UF/Downtown $655/mo. Call/Text 352-575-4395 email 806@cozyga -
tor.com      9-1-16-3-2
3 SubleaseV
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
2 Bd/1Ba Brandywine Condo $52,000. Newly renovated, on 1st floor, bus routes. Pool & clubhouse. Near UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopps. Text 352.284.2654 or jr-fong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress SaleNew - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the fall semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time & Flexible Hours!
Seeking Supervisors, Warehouse Staff,
Cashiers, Bartenders & Cook
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
352-692-6244
9-1-16-12-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-2-16-12-14
Monopoly research study: Looking for participants ages 15-21, Hispanic, born in the US.Call 352-294-5980 or email dmiller5@ufl.edu for more info.     9-2-16-10-14
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
ABA Associates is seeking graduate or un-dergraduates in Psych, Special Ed, or re-lated field to work with individuals with de-velopmental disabilities. Interest in Behavior Analysis, diet and exercise is a plus. Please email Mark at lister@abaassociates.net for more information.     8-30-16-5-14
Be Your Own Boss!
AAA Real Estate School isoffering a live real estatelicensing course starting 9/6.Call 352-225-4653      8-30-16-5-14
Sales Associated wanted! Firearm & sales exp req'd. 30 + hr/wk. Sat or Sun a must. No calls! Apply at 626 NW 13th St. M & C Army Surplus    8-31-16-5-14
ACROSS
1 “Big bad” pig
harasser
5 Paper Mate
products
9 Dictation pro
14 Milky gem
15 Frenzied16 High fly to the
shortstop
17 __ and dine18 Optimistic19 Wear down20 Ship that’s safe
for an oceanvoyage
23 Teller of macabre
tales
24 Tokyo, once25 Student’s
assignment
29 See 47-Across31 Indy 500 stat34 Nebraska city
near Boys Town
35 O’Hara plantation36 Pepsi, e.g.37 Barrel roll or
wingover
40 Award for 
46-Down
41 Apron tops
42 Stair part43 “For __ a jolly
good fellow ... ”
44 Long skirt
45 Conceited46 Objective47 With 29-Across,
baseball’s major
leagues, in slang
48 Brown v. Board
of Education of
Topeka, for one
57 San Antonio
mission
58 The “kid” in
“Here’s looking at
you, kid”
59 “I smell __!”
60 “Homeland”
actress Claire
61 Trio minus one62 With 65-Across,
military specialist
63 Supremes singer
Ross
64 CPR pros65 See 62-Across ...
and an acronymof the starts of20-, 37- and 48-AcrossDOWN
1 Bowls over
2 Mayberry tyke
3 Turner of “The
Postman AlwaysRings Twice”
(1946)
4 Took to the sky
5 Stereotypical
cracker requester
6 Chew the
scenery
7 Grab a bite8 Grey Goose rival
9 Takes chances
with a radar trap
10 Art class form
11 Long verse12 Sans clothing13 German
automaker
21 Daytime TV mogul22 One who shuns
all animalproducts
25 Raid victim26 Writer Zola27 Eiffel Tower city
28 Extremely
29 Disney deer30 Investments for
the future: Abbr.
31 Relocates32 Accordion fold33 “Tess of the
d’Urbervilles”
author Thomas
35 Candy sold in
pairs
36 Restore to health38 44th president39 Bygone
anesthetic
44 Brunch cocktail45 Doesn’t play fair46 Madison Ave.
figures47 RCA product48 TV “angel” Cheryl
who replacedFarrah Fawcett
49 Jai __50 Gram51 Hitchhiker’s hope52 Model Heidi53 Dapper fellows?54 “Dies __”: hymn55 Vena __: major
blood line
56 Texter’s sign off
By Timothy L. Meaker©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/30/1608/30/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, August 30, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016
Gator Tales Sports Bar & Grill
Hiring Bartenders & Servers. Apply at 5112 
NW 34th Blvd, across from the YMCA.     9-2-
7-14
Home helper for retired couple in NW 
Gainesville. Housekeeping, cooking & some driving. 15 hours a week. $13/hr. References & background check req.Contact Kathy, altacct@yahoo.com     8-30-16-4-14
**Admin Assistant-Frat. Management**Office assistant needed for accounting and management company exclusively dealing with Fraternities at UF. Applicant must be in-telligent, able to multi task, a self-starter, and driven. Microsoft Office skills a must. Office experience and sorority knowledge not re-quired, but a plus. Will work with semesterly schedule, open M-F 9-5. Start at $8.50/hr Submit resume and paragraph about your-self to info@fratmanagement.com     9-9-16-10-14
PT home/office/apartment cleaner needed asap m-sat 8a-5p, &wed 8a-10p. weekly pay, 8.50/hr(making roughly $200-280weekly); must drive own car; be able to pass drug/background check. if interested please call 352-214-0868     9-2-5-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Gleim Design is looking for a strong full time Maintenance Tech.Good background in general maintenance. Plumbing, electrical, mechanical and paint-ing skills desirable. Must have a truck and tools. Good driving record. Current drivers license. Ability to lift 50+ lbs.
Stable work. Great benefit package that in-
cludes medical, dental, vision, disability, life, AD&D, profit sharing/retirement, PTO andholiday pay and more.
Please send a resume to hr@gleim.com.    
9-13-16-10-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida football coach Jim 
McElwain said he wants to get playing experience for his two freshmen quarterbacks. Read the story on pg. 14.UF goalie earns SEC honor
Florida goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese was named the Southeastern Con-
ference Defensive Player of the Week, the league announced Monday. Marckese picked up 10 saves in two matches over the  weekend. TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Jim McElwain slammed his 
hand on the side of the lectern 
during his Monday press confer-
ence, but he wasn’t angry.
Florida’s head coach was 
simply excited — excited at the 
thought of opening up the sea-
son in the Swamp on Saturday. 
“Thinking about it now, I’m 
getting jacked up!” McElwain 
said. 
Kicking off the season at 
home is nothing new — the Gators have done so each of the last 28 years — but McElwain, in his second year at UF, is still getting used to it. 
One reason for his excite-
ment is starting quarterback Luke Del Rio, whom McElwain has expressed a ton of confi-
dence in since naming him the 
starter nearly two weeks ago.
“There seems to be a real set-
tling in there as far as that voice in the huddle, which is a good 
thing,” McElwain said of Del 
Rio.
In just four days, Florida fans will get their first look at a Del Rio-led offense still full of ques-tion marks.
Except for sophomore Anto-
nio Callaway, who McElwain 
said should be cleared by the 
university to play Saturday, ev-ery receiver is young or unprov-
en. The same goes for a run-
ning back group headlined by sophomores Jordan Scarlett and Jordan Cronkrite and redshirt junior Mark Thompson.
But the most glaring question 
lies in the offensive line. 
Last season, it surrendered an FBS-most 45 sacks. And with 
a couple of sophomores on the 
right side in Tyler Jordan and Fred Johnson, who started a combined five games between 
each other last season, it will 
have to step up for Florida’s of-fense to be effective.
“We have a lot of guys that 
were playing as freshmen last 
year,” Del Rio said. “But I have 
all the confidence in the world that they’re gonna get it done.” 
Del Rio and McElwain hope 
to show that this is a different Florida team than the one that finished 2015 with three-straight losses. McElwain, Del Rio confident in UF offense By Ian Cohen 
Sports Writer
Freshmen receivers Tyrie Cleve -
land and Rick Wells are suspended 
for Florida’s season opener against Massachusetts on Saturday, coach 
Jim McElwain announced on Mon
-
day.
Both Cleveland and Wells were 
arrested on July 18 on charges of criminal mischief and for firing a missile at a dwelling after police 
said they shot BB guns at a UF resi
-
dence hall.
“We’ve had some guys that ob -
viously made some choices not to play in this game,” McElwain said.
Cleveland and Wells will join 
starting corner
-
back Jalen Ta -
bor and tight end 
C’yontai Lewis, who are also sus
-
pended for Satur -
day’s game. McEl -
wain announced Tabor’s and Lew
-
is’ suspensions on Aug. 17 after the two reportedly fought during a preseason practice.
McElwain also said that a senior 
will be suspended for UF’s season opener but didn’t specify which one. 
The coach add
-
ed that sophomore receiver Antonio 
Callaway, who 
was suspended 
from the team in the spring after violating UF’s stu
-
dent code of con -
duct, will be available to play in Florida’s season opener. 
Callaway was accused of sexu
-
ally assaulting a woman in Decem -
ber but was found not responsible in a Title IX hearing, the results of which were issued on Aug. 12.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgCleveland, 
Wells suspended for opener 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain said he has noticed a sense of ease in Florida's huddle since redshirt sophomore quarterback Luke Del 
Rio (above) was named the starter.
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14Gators gave up an FBS-most 45 sacks in '15Cleveland
Wells
FOOTBALL14   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
Redshirt sophomore Luke Del 
Rio is the Gators’ starting quarter-
back in Saturday’s season opener against UMass. Purdue graduate transfer Austin Appleby is cement-ed as his backup.
But who will be the third-string 
signal caller — the one who coach Jim McElwain will call on in a 
worst-case scenario? That’s still 
to be decided between freshmen Feleipe Franks and Kyle Trask.
Regardless of who gets the job, 
McElwain said Monday he wants 
to give both ﬁ  rst-year players in-
game reps in the near future, if at all possible.
“Obviously we have to have an 
established third at some point,” 
McElwain said. “We’ll kind of see 
where it goes from there.”
Both Franks and Trask have 
had their share of ups and downs 
since enrolling at UF in January.
Franks, a four-star prospect and 
the No. 5 pro-style quarterback in 
the 2016 recruiting class, according to 247sports, has a cannon of an 
arm and has the ability to stretch 
the ﬁ  eld in the passing game.
But the 18-year-old has been 
inconsistent during camp and 
struggled during the Orange & Blue Debut in April, throwing three in-terceptions.
Trask, a career backup at Manv-
el (Texas) High who attempted just 132 passes in his ﬁ  nal two years of high school, has showcased poise in the pocket during practice.
His lack of quality experience, 
however, is worrisome.
McElwain said in a perfect sce-
nario, he will identify one of the freshmen early on as the No. 3 quarterback and allow the other to redshirt, staggering the two in terms of eligibility.
Until then, though, he’s not tak-
ing any chances.
“We have to prepare somebody 
to play in that spot,” McElwain said, “and both of them have done a really good job.”
Five-headed backﬁ  eld:Jordan Scarlett could be Flori-
da’s starting running back on Sat-
urday. Or it could be junior college 
transfer Mark Thompson. Or even sophomore Jordan Cronkrite.
All three are listed as the pos-
sible guy to line up in the back-
ﬁ  eld for the Gators’ ﬁ  rst offensive 
snap and are part of a potential ﬁ  ve-headed committee at running back.
The other two: redshirt senior 
Mark Herndon and true freshman Lamical Perine.
“There’s going to be a lot out 
there,” McElwain said. “Right now, 
it’s funny. I think you guys will get 
so entrenched on the depth chart, 
which simply means nothing. 
“Guys are going to play.”Other depth chart highlights:With All-Southeastern Con-
ference cornerback Jalen Tabor suspended for the season opener, junior Duke Dawson is listed as a starting corner opposite Quincy Wilson. Dawson is also listed as the starting nickel corner.
The Gators do not have a fresh-
man listed as a starter for the sea-son opener, but there are 12 of them listed on the depth chart.
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.org McElwain wants to give 
freshmen QBs a chance
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Freshman Kyle Trask (11) drops back to throw during UF's Orange and Blue Debut on April 8 at Ben Hill 
Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Trask was a career backup in high school, attempting just 132 passes in his last two years.
“Pretty miserable, wasn’t it?” McElwain said of the ﬁ  nish. 
But with Del Rio, there’s an aura of comfort — one that 
didn’t exist with former quarterback Treon Harris last year. 
Despite what will mark his ﬁ  rst start for the Gators on 
Saturday, Del Rio has more experience than most backups. 
He walked on at Alabama in 2013 before joining Oregon 
State’s team in 2014. 
And last season, he learned UF’s offense while sitting out 
due to transfer rules.
Yet McElwain knows Del Rio will need time to gain a 
rhythm. 
“It’s almost like we expect him to do things a little bit 
like a veteran in how he approaches it and the decisions we make,” McElwain said, “and yet we’ve got to be conscious of the fact that, I don’t care who you are, this is the ﬁ  rst time 
being out there and being the leader of the Florida Gators.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg 13Del Rio is a former 
walk-on at AlabamaNOTEBOOK
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain 
walks off the ﬁ  eld after the 2016 Orange and Blue Debut at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Feleipe Franks stretches with his teammates before a Spring practice on March 9. The freshman was a four-star prospect out of high school but struggled in UF's Spring game in April, throwing three interceptions.By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Florida volleyball coach Mary 
Wise knew what her team was 
getting itself into this past week-end.
A cross-country trip to Eugene, 
Oregon. 
A season-opening date with 
Nebraska, the nation’s top-ranked squad. 
And a slew of milestones. For 
eight members of UF’s 18-woman 
roster, Friday night represented 
their first taste of collegiate ac-
tion. 
It was a trial by fire. And Wise 
was pleased with her group’s showing at the weekend’s VERT 
Challenge, even though the 
Gators lost their opener for the 
first time since 2003.
“I think any college coach 
would tell you there is no sub-
stitute for experience, and that’s 
at every level — whether it’s go-
ing from high school to college, college to international, interna-
tional to the Olympics,” she said 
Monday. 
“There is a learning curve, and 
you can’t fast forward that.”
One look at this weekend’s 
contributors reveals just how steep that learning curve is.
Setter Allie Monserez missed 
the 2015 season due to transfer regulations.
Redshirt junior Shainah Jo-
seph earned a starting spot after sitting out last year.
Caroline Knop was pinned 
as the successor to the recently 
graduated Nikki O’Rourke despite 
having not played libero since 
high school.Taelor Kellum tripled her 2015 
kill count in a single match on 
Saturday.
The list goes on. 
It uncovers a level of inexpe-
rience that Florida volleyball is unfamiliar with, but it also points 
to a sense of this talented group’s 
dedication.
Since the start of summer, 
Wise’s athletes have met for in-
formal practices, voluntarily working out during a time when 
NCAA rules prohibited the pro-
gram’s coach from organizing 
team activities.
“This is a team, really, I think 
more so than any group we’ve 
had in terms of the work that 
they’re willing to put in outside 
the gym,” Wise said.
“I think that transcends to 
helping us be a better team be-
cause a lot of it is, what kind of 
preparation are you willing to do 
away from the practice when we are limited to no practice time?” 
Opting for that kind of prepa-
ration has helped the team gel, 
and although it’ll take time to iron out the kinks that inevitably 
form in pressure situations, it has 
set Florida off on the right foot. 
Saturday’s turnaround victory 
against Oregon proved as much. 
In their first back-to-back slate 
of the year, the Gators managed to adjust to one of the fastest at-
tacks in the nation, showing their 
resiliency by splitting their week-end series. 
“As we talked to them after the 
weekend, the record’s 1-1, and 
yet we know so much more about 
ourselves (than if) we played a 
2-0 weekend,” Wise said. 
In the end, Wise said, it all 
boils down to experience. 
“Next time we play a team 
that runs a fast offense, we can say, ‘Yes, that’s fast, but not as fast as Oregon’s,’ or, ‘This is a team...their back row is so good, 
(but) maybe not quite like Ne-
braska’s’,” Wise said. 
“We have comparisons, and 
that really helps the players.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.org
TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Gaining experience key for volleyball team early in season   
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Shainah Joseph swings for a kill during Florida’s 3-0 win against Mississippi State on Oct. 26, 2014, in 
the O’Connell Center. Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Mary Wise yells out instructions during Florida’s 3-1 loss to Ken-tucky on Sept. 27 in the O’Connell Center. 
TRIAL BY FIRE
Through two matches, players with little experience are getting playing time  for UF
Allie Monserez
• Last Year: 0 assists,  
0 digs
• This Year: 100 assists,  
13 digsShainah Joseph
• Last Year: 0 kills, 0 points
• This year: 6 kills,  
6.5 pointsCaroline Knop
• Last Year: TRANSFER
• This year: 4 points,  
5 assists, 30 digsTaelor Kellum
• Last Year: 3 kills, 6 points
• This year: 10 kills,  
11.5 pointsUF opened the season vs. No. 1 Nebraska
“As we talked to them after 
the weekend, the record’s 1-1, 
and yet we know so much 
more about ourselves (than if) 
we played a 2-0 weekend.” 
Mary Wise
Volleyball coach 16   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2016
The following is a paid advertisement