We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 25 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016
Florida’s defensive backs fail to 
back up trash talk 
Read the story, pg. 15 
Elephant conservation march sees low turnout
About 25 people marched from Plaza of the Americas, pg. 5
GNV ranked highest in Florida for bike friendliness
The city jumped 37 spots in two years, pg. 8Meet the Senate candidates
See our interviews with candidates for District
D and Inﬁ  nity Hall, pg. 3
FLORIDA 28
  TENNESSEE 38
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
APPRECIATING THE ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM
Jenni Brill, 41, helps her daughter Cailee Brill, 3, feed Patty, an Asian elephant at Two T ails Ranch, a carrot on 
Saturday during Elephant Appreciation Day 2016. The ranch is located at 18655 NE 81st St. in Williston, Fla.
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. — Austin Appleby 
dropped his shoulder pads on the locker room ﬂ  oor in disappointment. 
It was just minutes after the clock hit zero Saturday night at Neyland Stadium.
Tennessee players stormed the ﬁ  eld, some 
mocking UF’s band with chomping gestures, while head coach Butch Jones made his way to UT’s band to celebrate. 
He had just orchestrated Tennessee’s big-
gest win in recent history, a 38-28 comeback victory that snapped Florida’s 11-game win-ning streak over the Volunteers. 
For Appleby and the Gators, it was more 
than just a streak-breaking loss to a rival.
Tennessee scored 38 unanswered points 
and UF squandered its biggest lead since a 23-point advantage in 2003 against Miami.
Simply put, it was humiliating. 
“It’s hard,” linebacker Alex Anzalone 
said. “It’s been 11 years since we’ve lost to them, and to be the team that lost this game 
really hurts.”
For all the hype and importance surround-
ing this game, coach Jim McElwain and play-ers responded positively after the loss. 
Each of them had one thing on their 
minds: the big picture.
“No national championship Gators team 
has ever went undefeated,” running back CONFIDENCE DESPITE COLLAPSE 
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
When her ﬁ  ance died about a 
year ago, 61-year-old Judith Flarity 
started living out of a tent at Dig-
nity Village, surrounded by thick trees and woodlands.
She couldn’t afford her rent 
alone, so she moved to the tent city, which lies just outside the fences of the Grace Marketplace homeless shelter.
But ever since the Gainesville 
City Commission voted earlier this month to limit the capacity at the village from 200 to 155, Flarity said residents have been displaced and crowded together.
Moreover, she said the problem 
that motivated the cap — the city identiﬁ  ed 25 dead and unhealthy trees at risk of falling on residents — has yet to be solved.
“I’m almost 62 years old,” Flar-
ity said. “I have a bad back and health problems. I can’t take care of the trees. (The government is) 
getting money to take care of it and 
they’re not.”
City spokesman Bob Woods 
said he is unsure how long it will 
take to ﬁ  x the issue, either by trim-
ming or felling the trees. Because of the amount of trees affected, he said the city will have to contract 
the job out to a private company.
Woods said the decision to re-
duce the capacity at the village was 
made before Hurricane Hermine made landfall, as a way to protect 
residents living in tents near the 
trees. And despite the decreased 
capacity, he said no residents have been displaced or asked to leave the village.
There have been accommoda-
tions made for new residents since the cap, based on data from the U.S. Census Bureau, has been in effect. Dignity Village residents 
criticize lack of tree removal
THE EVENT WAS HOSTED 
BY UF BLACK AFFAIRS.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer 
The names of 40 black men and 
women were read aloud on Turling-
ton Plaza.
On Friday afternoon, more than 
300 students, faculty and staff came together for a peaceful demonstra-tion to honor those who were fatally shot by police so far this year.
Students were asked to wear 
white to the event hosted by UF Black Affairs. 
Khyra Keeley, the event organizer 
and social justice and advocacy chair of UF Black Affairs, said the demon-
stration wasn’t about mourning but 
about celebrating life.“We focused on celebrating 
who they were and what their lives meant,” the 19-year-old UF political science and African American stud-ies student said. “We weren’t here to just talk about the moment of their death.”
As she copes with police-involved 
shootings that seem to never end, 
Keeley said she feels exhausted and 
frustrated.The demonstration comes three 
days after the shooting of Keith Lamont Scott, 43, in Charlotte, North Carolina, and two weeks after Ter-rence Crutcher’s Sept. 16 death in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Crutcher and Scott are two of at 
least 707 people — 164 of them black men — who were shot to death by 
law enforcement this year, according 
to a Washington Post database.“We’re tired of losing our broth-
ers and sisters to meaningless vio-lence,” Keeley said. “We’re tired of going on Facebook and seeing videos of people being killed. We’re tired of saying ‘Black Lives Matter’ and try-ing to explain what that means.”
Alisha L. Perkins read the name 
of one of the victims.
“Dyzhawn L. Perkins,” the 20-
 Days after Charlotte shooting, hundreds attend UF demonstrationUF still hopeful after loss to Vols
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE DEMONSTRATION,  PAGE 4SEE DIGNITY,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  87° LOW  69°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF Mindfulness Day is today
The cross-campus UF 
Mindfulness team is sponsor-
ing the UF Mindfulness Day, which offers free practice ses-sions focused on mindfulness 
meditation, yoga, qigong, per-
formances and several talks. All 
sessions are free and open to students, faculty and staff mem-
bers. Event details can be found 
at mindfulness.ufl.edu/index.php/events.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in UF’s Entomology Building, located at 1881 Natural Area Drive, Room 1031. For details, go to talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page. “The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a sup-portive and positive learning ex-perience in which members are empowered to develop commu-nication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confi-dence and personal growth.”
Campus Juice dinner and movie
Campus Juice is putting on a fall-themed potluck dinner with a showing of a health documenta-ry. Enjoy the abundance of tasty 
autumn vegetables, like roasted 
squash, carrots and pepitas. Fall 
is the perfect time to test out the 
benefits of a plant-based diet. Vote on the Facebook page to 
decide which film to show on 
Tuesday at 7:30 p.m.
A Discussion on tenants rights 
Lakesha Thomas of Three 
Rivers Legal Services specializes 
in tenants’ rights and wants to 
educate Gainesville residents on their rights. Join the discus-sion, presented by the Alachua 
County Labor Coalition, 
Tuesday at 6 p.m. The meeting 
will be held at the Emmanuel Mennonite Church, located at 1236 NW 18th Ave. Pizza and 
drinks will be on hand. Join the 
Alachua County Labor Coalition 
Facebook group for updates on upcoming events.
Oral History Program book talk
Today, UF's Samuel Proctor Oral History Program will host a book talk with University of Michigan history professor, Scott Ellsworth entitled “THE SECRET GAME:  Race, Sports, and Change in the Jim Crow South” at 6:15 p.m. in Pugh Hall.The Secret Game recently won 
the 2016 PEN/ESPY Award for 
Literary Sports Writing and is 
currently being made into a ma-
jor motion picture. There will be refreshments and a book-
signing after the event. Parking 
is free and located behind Pugh 
Hall.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 25
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
Carley Mead 
After spending her 
Summer as a sopho-more replacement student Senator, Car-
ley Mead wants to 
continue working in Student Senate. 
If elected, the 
19-year-old UF com-puter engineering sophomore will be one of 13 representa-tives for District D, 
which covers the 32608 zip code along Archer Road. Mead, one of 13 total candidates from Impact Party, said she wants to improve the Regional Transit System bus app for students living in her district.
“I personally struggle with the app every 
day,” she said. “The bus ride, especially in Dis-trict D, is the start of everyone’s day.” 
She also wants to create more chances to 
meet with constituents in her district, she said. 
“We need more efforts to get everyone to-
gether and learn who each other are,” she said.
Although not involved with SG or Impact 
her freshman year, Mead said she is excited to continue working with them after her time in Student Senate over Summer. She wants to help Impact place healthier options in vending machines on campus and create more charging 
stations. 
“Impact Party is not just a party,” she said. 
“To me, it’s just a family of students who have 
one common goal.”MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Livia Led-
better wants to 
make UF more accessible for first-generation 
students. 
The 19-year-
old UF journal-
ism sophomore 
is running for one of 13 Dis-trict D Student Senate seats in Fall’s elections 
against 13 Impact candidates. Of the ﬁ  ve independent candidates running, she is the only one seeking an off-campus seat. 
As a ﬁ  rst-generation student, Ledbetter 
said she attends UF because of the Machen Florida Opportunity Scholars Program. She wants to focus her efforts in Student Gov-ernment to help other low-income, ﬁ  rst-generation students. 
“I feel like a lot of times, our needs are 
ignored or swept under the rug or given second place to legacy students,” she said. 
If elected, Ledbetter said she wants to 
increase funding for the Field and Fork Food Pantry, work to make the nomination and election process for SG positions more transparent and ﬁ  ght for the implementa-tion of remote online voting. 
“I feel a desire to really get involved and 
help people,” she said.  Senate Race 2016 
Kelly Hooper, 
wants to make a 
difference for stu-dents in her resi-dence hall. 
“That’s some-
thing I really enjoy, because whenever I have the possibility to help someone out I really want to do that,” the 18-year-
old UF marketing freshman said. Hooper is running as Impact’s representative for Inﬁ  nity Hall.  
If elected, Hooper said she wants to 
help implement a cafe at Inﬁ  nity Hall, put 
healthy food in vending machines and in-
stall lights on yield signs near the hall to prevent scooter accidents. 
Hooper said she learned about SG 
through conversations with her friends in 
Inﬁ  nity, and after research, she knew she 
wanted to run with Impact. 
“I instantly knew I aligned with Im-
pact’s message,” she said. “I wanted to 
align myself with someone who always 
gets things done. There was no other party 
I could even visualize myself being a part of.” District D Inﬁ  nity HallBy Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
Zachariah 
Chou 
Note: Chou was 
a contributing photographer for the Alligator this Summer, and he worked as a paid photographer at the beginning of Fall. 
Zachariah Chou 
has been involved 
in some form of student government since he 
was in seventh grade. 
The 18-year-old UF political science and 
journalism freshman wants to continue that trend by running to represent Inﬁ  nity Hall as an independent candidate. If elected, he said he also wants to ﬁ  ght for remote online voting through Student Senate. 
“I think Student Government is the body 
that I choose to believe is the most effective way to do good for a school,” said Chou, who is also the Inﬁ  nity Council vice president. 
Chou wants to improve the community at 
Inﬁ  nity, which he said can feel more like a hotel than a residence hall. He also wants to improve cooking and recreational equipment in the hall.
He’s excited to potentially bring a different 
voice to Student Senate, he said. 
“I think that to have 45 out of 50 elected 
ofﬁ  cials not really be elected isn’t necessar-ily healthy,” he said. “Student Government should be accessible to anyone, not just those with signiﬁ  cant ﬁ  nancial backing.”  Chou
 Mead
 Ledbetter
 Hooper
Q&A  
What is your favorite study spot on cam-
pus? 
“I think Marston basement is my fa-
vorite place to study, just because it’s 
freezing cold. ”
What is your dream job? 
“I really would love to work for a 
prominent news organization one day. Just something that its end goal is help-ing people. ” Q&A 
What’s your favorite movie? “‘She’s the Man. ’ I can quote the entire 
thing. ” 
What’s an interesting fact about yourself? “I have three birth certiﬁ  cates because my 
mom changed the spelling of my name three different times. ” Q&A 
What is your dream job?“President. Like real president, though. 
And afterwards, photojournalist. ” 
What is an interesting fact about yourself?“I don’t own any jean or denim products. ” Q&A 
What is your favorite study spot on cam-
pus?
“I recently found those chairs in Li-
brary West with the little swivel tables. I really enjoy ordering some cookies and 
going there and studying. ” 
What is your favorite song? 
“‘God Made Girls’ by RaeLynn. I have 
everything in my iPod from Arctic Mon-keys to country. ” IMPACT IMPACT INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT4   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sci-
ence received a record amount of grants in the 
last fiscal year.
IFAS got $140 million for research fund-
ing — $14.2 million more than it got in the 
2014-15 fiscal year, said John Davis, the IFAS 
associate dean for research. The largest share of the money, $24 million, went to a project focused on citrus greening, a disease that im-
pairs the growth of citrus plants. 
The money came mostly from federal and 
state agencies, he said. Davis said he thinks 
the 11-percent increase in funding last year was, in part, due to faculty requests for more aid for more projects and the hiring of 50 to 60 new employees within the past two years. 
“We have a lot of really smart people 
working here,” Davis said. “This is just a wonderful time to be at this institution, be-cause things are growing at all fronts.” 
He said most of the research projects in-
volved searching for solutions to social and 
biological issues, such as droughts and cli-
mate change. IFAS used the grant money to hire graduate and undergraduate students and buy supplies and equipment. 
UF’s College of Veterinary Medicine, which 
is part of IFAS, was awarded a $1.3 million donation this past year for Maddie’s Shelter Medicine Program, which educates veterinary students and professionals who work in shel-
ters about animal health and wellbeing.
Deborah Turcott, the chief operating of-
ficer of Maddie’s Shelter Medicine Program, 
said Maddie’s Fund, a pet rescue foundation that gives grants, has given $11 million to the program since 2008.  She said it’s important to give back to others.
“We pay the faculty members who teach 
the students, who help develop new courses,” 
she said.IFAS receives record  
$140 million in grants
STUDENTS CAN ACCESS  
MEDICAL RECORDS,  
PRESCRIPTION REFILLS
By Alyssa Weiss
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can now access medical records 
from UF’s Student Health Care Center through 
a new online system.
The new medical system, Epic, allows us-
ers to review results, refill prescriptions, review 
health summaries, message doctors and sched-
ule appointments on their computer. 
The SHCC began upgrading the system 
four months ago, wrote Catherine Seemann, the SHCC communications coordinator, in an email. The online appointment registration opened this month, she said. New patients should call the SHCC for their 
first appointment before they can use the on-line system at the mychart.shands.org website. Between 8-percent and 14-percent of patients used the previous online appointment schedul-ing system, Seemann said. She didn’t say how 
much it cost.
Isabel Wasilewski, a UF psychology sopho-
more, said she’s glad the SHCC updated the 
online system because she found the old one hard to use. 
“The old system was too confusing,” the 
19-year-old said. “I usually opt to make an in-person appointment.”
Wasilewski said she appreciates the up-
grade because it has everything in one place.
“As a college student, immediacy and ef-
ficiency are my favorite things, so everything digitized is preferred,” Wasilewski said. “It also helps me from losing a piece of paper.”SHCC gets new online 
appointment scheduling system  
year old UF linguistics junior declared. “He was 19, and 
he was unarmed.”
She said the victim could have easily been a part of 
her family.
“He has my last name,” she said. “That could have 
been my brother, my sister, my dad, my mom.”
Perkins said she feels UF students have the opportunity 
to provoke change in the community.
“Legitimately, enough is enough,” she said. “I’ve heard 
too many names, heard about too many people, seen too many hashtags.”
David Parrott, UF’s vice president of Student Affairs, 
said he thought Friday’s reading was powerful.
“We allowed students’ voices to be heard and that’s 
what it’s all about,” he said.
Despite the heightened tensions between the public 
and law enforcement, Parrott said local law enforcement has done a good job mending relationships.
“I’m impressed by the University Police and by the 
Gainesville Police that I have met and interacted with,” he said. “I find them to be committed to listening and to paying attention.”
He said to enact change students should fight hate with 
love.
“Let’s continue to care for each other and demonstrate 
that,” he said.DEMONSTRATION,  from pg 1‘Enough is enough.’ “There’s no nefarious plot to displace the 
homeless,” Woods said. “This is purely about 
residents’ safety.”
However, Flarity said since the commis-
sion voted to cap the resident capacity and move current residents away from the identi-
fied treeline, new Magnolia trees were recent-
ly planted near the front of the village.
“Like we need new, bigger trees,” she said. 
“The ones we have are falling down.”
Nina McNeal, a Dignity Village resident of 
three years, called into question the efficiency of the city’s work to get rid of the trees.
Although she said she is happy that the cap 
will reduce overcrowding and shorter wait 
times for showers and other basic services at 
the village, McNeal said the city should take into consideration the safety of the residents and make removing the trees a priority.
“We need more help out here and they’re 
not helping us,” she said. “What are we? Chopped liver?”
Theresa Lowe, the executive director of the 
Alachua County Coalition for the Homeless and Hungry,  said similar to other government operations, getting rid of the trees and, thus, lifting the cap would take time.
But even at capacity, both the village and 
Grace Marketplace have tried to find space for new residents even if it’s just for a couple nights, she said. No one has been turned away yet, and she said she hopes it stays that way.
“We just want to keep everyone safe,” she 
said.
@Jawosmond
Josmond@alligator.orgDIGNITY,  from pg. 1City unsure when trees will be removed
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Ebony Love, 20, a UF history junior and co-organizer of Enough is Enough Peace Demonstration, recites a poem, “Still I Rise” by Maya Angelou, on Friday afternoon on Turlington Plaza.
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Peter Dannenhoffer, a homeless man staying at Dignity Village, surveys his camp before beginning final preparations for Hurricane Hermine on Sept. 1. “A lot of people here don’t know what the storm is all about, ” he said.
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF student Julia Jeanty walked down 
West University Avenue on Sunday morn-
ing, megaphone in hand.
“Elephants are here to stay,” the 
20-year-old UF sustainability studies and environmental geosciences junior chanted.
“Let them live another day,” other ele-
phant-conservation supporters replied.
Led by a lifesize, wood and paper mâ-
ché elephant sculpture attached to a cycle, Jeanty and about 25 students and residents marched downtown from UF’s campus to 
call attention to the declining population of 
elephants.
The second-annual march, held two 
days after Elephant Appreciation Day, was hosted by the Conservation Initiative for 
the Asian Elephant, a local nonprofit.
Last year, Jeanty said, more than 100 
people attended the march, so Sunday’s 
turnout surprised her. She said a pro-ele-
phant benefit concert held Saturday at First 
Magnitude Brewery drew about 250 peo-ple, which may have impacted the march’s attendance.
Gainesville Police officers blocked off 
West University Avenue for the march, which began on the Plaza of the Americas at 10:30 a.m. and finished at the Hippo-drome State Theatre at noon.
Ron Chandler, a co-founder and the 
president of CIFAE, said he hoped more people would have attended the march, but it can be difficult to attract a crowd on 
a Sunday morning.
Despite the decrease in participation, he 
said the march still accomplished what he 
wanted. As participants walked past Mid-town, bystanders waved, cheered and took 
photos.
“The turnout was small, but the energy 
was great,” he said. “We’re still highly mo-
tivated to keep going.”
 Chandler said the elephant population 
is disappearing, and the biggest culprits are the mining industry and corporate farming. To produce massive quantities of palm oil, corporations have burned millions of acres 
of habitat, he said.
Because of this destruction, Asian el-
ephants wander into human territory, 
where they can be killed or harm residents, 
Chandler said. CIFAE hopes to end human-
elephant conflict by teaching residents of these regions how to peacefully interact with the animals. 
Chandler said he urges Gainesville 
residents to help conserve and protect el-ephants by not buying products containing palm oil and donating to elephant-conser-vation organizations in Asia.
“We need to have acted yesterday,” he 
said. “Their plight is dire.”MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
HEALTHY FRIDAY
Members of the healthy lifestyle club, Fruved, compete in the Fruvedlympics on Friday on Flavet Field. 
Multiple orange and blue teams played at a handful of active stations, including handball, soccer and Heads Up.
HE CAUSED NEARL Y $14,000 IN 
DAMAGES.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
An agitated patient at UF Health Shands 
Psychiatric Hospital on Thursday destroyed nearly $14,000 of equipment, deputies said.
At about 11 a.m., Donnie Ray Mogan, 58, 
of Trenton, Florida, became agitated while be-ing treated at the hospital, located at 4101 NW 89th Blvd., according to a police report. 
Administrator Mark Amox told the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Office that Mogan slammed an expensive computer system against the wall at the hospital’s day room, causing $10,000 in damages, according to the report.
Mogan then violently shook an entry door 
to the day room, according to the report. He caused the door to twist at its frame, which caused $4,000 in damages.
Amox told deputies he wanted to press 
charges for the damages, according to the re-port. 
Police arrested Mogan on a charge of crimi-
nal mischief with property damage more than $1,000, according to the report.
Authorities took him to the Alachua County 
Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $10,000 bond.
In the past, police have arrested Mogan on 
a charge of aggravated battery and operating a motor vehicle with an expired license, accord-ing to Alachua County court records.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgACSO: Shands 
patient breaks
door, computerAnnual downtown elephant-conservation 
parade marches on despite low turnoutPOLICE SAY THE 
SHOOTING FOLLOWED 
A FIGHT AT COWBOYS 
SALOON.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested 
a local man Friday after they 
said he shot another man in the 
back with a rifle.
At about 3:45 a.m., Tanner 
Wesley Abbott, 20, shot the 
man in the 3500 block of North-
west Eighth Ave. after a fight 
at the downtown bar Cowboys Saloon, said Gainesville Police Lt. Tscharna Senn. 
After Abbott got in a fist 
fight with another person, the man and two witnesses wanted 
to confront him, according to a 
police report. They found his truck, and then followed him home.
Once there, Abbott left his 
car and loaded a single round into his .22-caliber rifle, ac-cording to the report. He then walked outside brandishing the rifle.
As the trio fled, Abbott then 
fired into the back window of their vehicle, shattering the glass and striking the man in 
his back, Senn said.
The man was taken to UF 
Health Shands Hospital with 
non-life-threatening injuries, she said.
Abbott told police he meant 
to fire a warning shot, accord-ing to the report. He acknowl-edged he should have called 
911 as the men followed him 
and remained in his house in-stead of confronting them.
Police arrested him on 
charges of aggravated battery 
and shooting a deadly missile 
into a vehicle, according to the report. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where 
he was released Saturday on a 
$35,000 bond.
Abbott declined to comment 
on the arrest.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgMan shot after bar fight
Carly Breitbart / Alligator
Led by a lifesize elephant sculpture attached to a bicycle, about 25 students and 
residents marched on Sunday to raise awareness for the declining population of elephants. The yearly march, which began on the Plaza of the Americas and fin-ished at the Hippodrome State Theatre, saw a decline in attendance — from about 100 last year to a quarter of that this year.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORMourning the loss of 
a Marlins player on 
and off the diamond
In a cramped room outside the Marlins Park locker room, a 
grinning José Fernández sat in front of cameras and report-ers.
Donning a backwards cap and a sleeveless shirt, the 
young Miami Marlins pitcher fielded questions after a win 
June 26. He was on a high — his team was 41-35 after beating the mighty Chicago Cubs.
He had aspirations of winning a World Series for his city.And then, a slight moment of awkwardness arose.One reporter’s phone rang. Queen’s “We Are the Champions” 
played.
Some players might have brushed it off or become agitated.Fernández, however, embraced it.“Yeah,” he said before pausing. “Hopefully we can play that 
song at the end of the season.”
He sent everyone in the room into laughter like only he could.But sadly, that dream won’t be realized.Fernández was killed in a boating accident early Sunday 
morning off Miami Beach, taken from the earth at just 24 years old. He was one of MLB’s budding stars, a talented player with an arm and a smile like no other.
His death shook the baseball world.I had the privilege to meet Fernández and witness that smile 
every day this summer on an internship. I grew up a Marlins fan and remember watching him pitch as a teenager just a few years ago in the Marlins farm system at Roger Dean Stadium in Jupiter, Florida.
Now his career and life are in the past. But his legacy shouldn’t 
be, and we should all strive to live every day like he did.
Fernández played the game like his life depended on it. He 
defected from Cuba before playing high-school ball in Tampa. “Beautiful” and “blessing” were words he’d use to describe his 
job.
They say some players wear their hearts on their sleeves.
Well, José Fernández plastered his all over his damn uniform.Off the field, though, his personality lit up rooms. It shined 
brighter than any ball-park light could.
Even if you aren’t a fan of baseball, take a moment to watch 
one of Fernández’s games.
Heck, just watch the highlights. I promise you won’t regret it.You’ll see that Fernández lived life to the fullest and made 
everyone around him smile. That was no different for his team-mates, coaches, fans and even media members.
When I first saw the news scrolling on Twitter, I was in dis-
belief.
My heart sank.Nausea settled in.I wanted to vomit all over the bright-orange Marlins T-shirt I 
was wearing.
I don’t remember where I was Sept. 11, 2001, but I sure as hell 
won’t forget where I was Sept. 25, 2016.
That’s how much he influenced those around him.Fernández may have only been 24, but he didn’t act like it 
around people. If you walked past him in the clubhouse, he’d ask you how you were doing.
He cared, and we should too.Rest easy, José. You won’t be forgotten.Patrick Pinak is a UF journalism senior and the Alligator online 
sports editor. This summer, he covered the Miami Marlins as an intern 
with mlb.com.Focus on who matters now, not who matters more
#BlackLivesMatter. #BlueLivesMatter. 
#AllLivesMatter. 
We’ve reached the point in which 
seeing a hashtag and the words “lives” and “matter” in the same phrase fill us 
with intense anger and a desire to close all in-ternet tabs and throw the computer out a win-dow. Maybe that’s just me. Regardless, the emotions I feel are not because of the move-ment itself. They stem from the reactions to the movement.
I’m not arguing all lives don’t matter, be-
cause that is not the case. I am a firm believer in the idea that every life is equal, regardless of ethnicity, past 
or future action. As I hold this ideal and witness the on-
line trainwreck that is the #AllLivesMatter movement, I am disgusted. 
You’d think this movement would be my cup of tea, 
right? Equality and awareness of equality sounds great in theory. But that is not what this movement is. By responding to another group’s cry for help with only the acknowledgement that they aren’t the only ones who matter, we are belittling their feelings and not only 
deciding that their problems are no different from ev-
eryone else’s, but trying to make this decision public opinion.
Dear readers, this is how society falls apart.Saying black lives matter is not saying that other 
lives don’t. The fact that the black community feels compelled to make this statement is awful. The idea that their lives matter should not have to be stated, and the fact that they feel enough people don’t agree that 
their lives matter is, quite frankly, disgusting. 
The worst part about all of this is, rather than of-
fer support and understanding to our fellow world citi-
zens, we just start screaming that other lives matter, too. OK. Yes, your life matters, too. Yes, everyone has it hard in this world. No one has a perfect situation free from prejudice, bias or hatred. However, as a person, when someone is upset by the way he or she is being treated, the appropriate response is not “me, too” when your situation is nothing like his or hers. 
This is something we learn in elementary 
school. When someone is sad, you don’t just 
reply by yelling, “I’m sad too, though!” and 
completely ignore the rest of his or her story. You listen empathetically, offering words of support and an understanding ear. This is ex-acerbated infinitely when the situation is in-volving wrongful death and intense prejudice. 
If you are white, you cannot pretend to un-
derstand the plight of black people in this country. You can offer support. You can be kind. But you do not “get 
it.” It is nowhere near comparable to anything the white 
population has experienced in recent history.
 The phrase “Black Lives Matter” does not mean the 
rest of lives don’t. But the phrase “All Lives Matter” only serves to belittle the cry for help from the black community and say their stories are not worth hearing or paying any attention to. At this moment in time, the lives of black people are at risk. These are stories worth hearing. This is a flaw in our society that needs fixing, 
and it will not be fixed if everyone else is so intent on 
making sure that no one feels anyone else’s problems may actually be a bigger deal than theirs. 
So, I suppose what I’m trying to get across here is 
to stop. Stop thinking that #BlackLivesMatter means #OnlyBlackLivesMatterAndIfYoureNotBlackYourLife-DoesntMatter. If you feel this way, you are entirely missing the point of this movement. Spreading aware-ness through the internet is a brilliant way to share facts 
and feelings with the world but screeches to a halt when 
a countermovement decides their feelings matter more. 
All lives do matter, but right now, the black com-
munity is under the impression that theirs do not. This is incredibly sad, and we need to fix this. Being selfish and egocentric is not the way to do it. 
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF psychology and journalism 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.
T aylor  
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgLetters to the Editor
GPD blue cards help prevent 
crimes
In 2015, 514 vehicle burglaries were 
reported to the Gainesville Police; most 
of the vehicles were unlocked at the time 
of the crime. The complaints from several 
residents in the article in the Alligator on Friday about GPD placing “report cards” on vehicles were misguided. 
It is not an invasion of privacy to put 
something on the exterior of a vehicle parked out in the open. Placing a blue card on the windshield does not encour-age burglaries, unsecured vehicles and/or 
valuables left in plain view do. Proactive 
activity by the police to prevent crime is wise and an excellent use of their time, not a time waster as Dr. Samra alleges. 
I’m sure anyone who has experienced a 
vehicle burglary would much rather have found that blue card than deal with the loss they would have suffered.
Pete Backhaus is a Gainesville resident. 
Regarding John Jones’ letter to 
the editor:
UF business student John Jones misrepre-
sents both the email sent by David Parrott and the overall situation in this country to which the email pertains. Nowhere in Parrott’s email does he imply violence is only commit-ted against African-Americans. He mentions several recent tragedies in which black people were killed by the police in order to promote an event on the subject. Just because a spe-ciﬁ  c type of violence is mentioned in a short email does not mean the sender is implying no other types of violence exist.
Using the statistics provided by Jones, we 
see that 25 percent of people killed by the po-lice this year were African-American. If we look at data from the U.S. Census Bureau, we see that African-Americans make up 13 per-
cent of the population. Clearly, African-Amer-
icans are disproportionately affected by police 
violence. Furthermore, the census also shows that 40 percent of the large prison population in this country is African-American, showing that they are also disproportionately affected by the legal system in this country. Surely this warrants discussion.
By sending an email regarding an event co-
hosted by a department within the Division of Student Affairs, Parrott is clearly doing his job by promoting this event and encouraging students to “stand together and participate.” Also, I don’t think the statement is going to be retracted anytime soon, since UF President Kent Fuchs himself showed up at the event.
I fail to see how Parrott’s reference to re-
cent tragedies, which have been reported in 
the news and are events in which the read-
ers of his email are presumably familiar with, makes Parrott complicit in spreading some “false narrative.” I also fail to see how he por-
trays whites as racists, since he never men-
tions white people directly or indirectly in his 
email.
Expressing outrage at the disproportion-
ate killing of African Americans by the police 
does not somehow mean that anyone is less 
upset about violence committed against other 
Americans. When a group of people is dis-proportionately affected by the legal system of their country, it is natural to be outraged, as the system meant to protect them is being employed to do the opposite. Furthermore, saying systematic violence and disenfran-chisement aimed at African Americans is an important issue that needs to be discussed does not mean this issue should be discussed to the exclusion of other issues. Saying “all violence matters” is trite and serves to direct attention away from a concrete problem — the systematic violation of the rights of Afri-can-Americans — to an abstract discussion 
of violence that cannot hope to accomplish 
anything.
In closing, I ask that Jones exclude me 
from the “we” he threw me and about 87 per-
cent of this country into without our permis-
sion. Between Parrott and Jones, it seems to 
me that Jones does a lot more to divide the Student Body into an “us” and “them” than Parrott’s short email would ever be capable 
of.
Darien Santmyer is a UF philosophy stu-
dent. MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
On Thursday, David Parrott, the 
vice president for Student Affairs, sent out an email urging students 
to go to the Enough is Enough 
Peaceful Demonstration on Fri-
day. Parrott wrote, “It is incomprehensible that violence against Black people across 
the nation continues.”  
Not all students were happy with this 
email. This past Friday, the Alligator pub-
lished a letter by a student who criticized Parrott’s email for being factually incorrect 
and for being sent out on a student-wide 
server. 
The student, John Jones, called out Par-
rott’s facts but himself failed to compare 
the rate that black people are killed by po-
lice as compared to their proportion of the population. 
While the letter alleged that Parrott 
overstepped his boundaries as the vice 
president for Student Affairs, this simply 
isn’t true. Both urging students to attend the demonstration and attending himself, along with UF President Kent Fuchs and Dr. Jen Day Shaw, the associate vice president and dean 
of students, were important steps 
to show they care about black students. 
It’s good to have an adminis-
tration who cares deeply about their minority students, because what happens when they don’t? Well, we just have to dig into UF’s history to ﬁ  nd out. 
According to UF’s Black Affairs website, 
when the Black Student Union made a list of demands in April 1971 for “programs and initiatives to improve the campus cli-
mate for Black students,” including a Black 
Cultural Center, former UF President Ste-phen O’Connell refused to act on the de-mands. This resulted in an occupation of the president’s ofﬁ  ce April 15, 1971, or 
Black Thursday, during which 67 students 
were suspended. 
The fact that student protests of this scale were required to get black students a space on campus shows how bad the administra-
tion was at meeting the needs of 
minority students.
That’s not the only case of ad-
ministration working against the 
tide of social justice. According 
to the Gainesville Sun, in 2012 students pushed for a renaming 
of the student union because of J. Wayne Reitz’s legacy of delaying integration at UF 
and purging of LGBTQ+ students. Former 
Vice President for Students Affairs Dave Kratzer “cautioned against applying values from today to the tumultuous historical pe-
riod during which Reitz was president.” 
Reitz believed LGBTQ+ students 
shouldn’t be at UF, just as O’Connell be-
lieved black students shouldn’t have their own cultural center, and both were wrong 
because they didn’t think of students’ 
needs ﬁ  rst.
These cases occurred in UF’s recent past and it’s too soon to disregard them. In both cases, administrators expressed a political opinion — maybe not one for a political 
party, but one that deeply affected minori-
ties. 
Are those OK because they do not chal-
lenge privileged identities?
The student who wrote the letter would 
rather us go back to a time when minor-ity concerns weren’t given much thought. Administration is there to help students — not to sit idly by while they suffer. 
David Parrott is the vice president of 
all Student Affairs, not just of the students who have enough privilege that they don’t have to think about police violence against 
black people. Parrott has taken a much 
needed step to bring light to this issue. In fact, it would be inappropriate had he not spoken out. 
As Isiah Thomas said, “White silence is 
the equivalent to violence in these issues.”
Nicole Dan is a UF political science 
junior. Her column appears on Mondays.
Parrott right to show support by urging students to attend demonstrationColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
After saving a baby deer from a stream Sunday, lo-
cal law enforcement named it Bambi and reunited it with its mother.
At about 2:30 p.m., a passerby saw the deer had 
fallen in a stream near Boulware Springs in Gainesville, 
said Gainesville Police Lt. Tscharna Senn.
The deer was trying to get out, and officers didn’t 
know how long it was stuck, she said. Officers think it 
may have fallen in while trying to drink water.
When officers arrived, the fawn was treading wa-
ter, following the two officers and the passerby as they 
moved around the perimeter of the stream, Senn said. 
Senn then called a deputy from the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Rural Services Division to help get it out.
It took the deputy about five minutes to get the deer 
out of the water using a catch stick, she said. Once they got the deer near the edge, the deputy picked it 
up.
After they put the fawn on land, it looked like a 
newborn deer, wobbling to stay upright on its legs, she 
said. After it recovered, the four led it to the top of the 
hill, hoping its mother would be there.
Waiting for her baby, the mother jumped when she 
saw the deer, Senn said, reminiscent of the “Bambi” 
movie.
“It’s nice when you can do something and it ends 
well,” she said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016
Courtesy of Gainesville Police Department
After finding a wild fawn on Sunday near Boulware 
Springs, local law enforcement saved it, named it Bambi and reunited it with its mother.
THE CITY JUMPED 37 
SPOTS IN TWO YEARS.
By Matthew Gorwitz
Alligator Contributing Writer
In what some consider 
the most dangerous state 
for bicycling in the country, 
Gainesville has been ranked 
the most bicycle-friendly city in Florida.
The city ranked No. 29 out 
of 50 in an article published by bicycling.com on Sep. 19. 
The website runs the sur-
vey every two years, taking into account their infrastruc-
ture, census data and activ-
ism.
In Florida, Gainesville 
topped Tallahassee (No. 38), 
Miami (No. 40) and Tampa 
(No. 45). The city jumped 37 spots from its position two years ago.
Ian Dille, who conducted 
the survey, said Gainesville’s nationwide ranking is impres-sive, considering Florida’s lack of bicycle-minded infra-
structure.
In Florida, “where there are 
bike lanes, they’re generally 
very narrow,” Dille said. “It’s a very driver-oriented culture 
in which people driving cars 
aren’t looking out for people using other means of transpor-tation.”
The primary factor Dille 
looks at is the U.S. Census Bu-reau data that calculates the number of bike commuters in each city.
Dille said he also does in-
terviews with bicycle-advocate groups in each city and gauges the progress these groups have 
made in regards to improving 
bicycling conditions.
Chris Furlow, president of 
Gainesville Citizen and Ac-tive Transportation, said the 
high ranking comes during a 
time when the city and Alach-ua County has added bicycle lanes and is making plans for 
future additions.Moreover, in August, Fur-
low said, the city expanded its 
bicycle-sharing program, dou-
bling the amount of stations 
from two to four.
In a city whose population 
is heavily made up of univer-sity students, he said UF has 
made major inroads to help 
students who may not have cars.
“UF in particular has done 
a lot to make biking to cam-pus easier and safer by add-ing bike lanes and multi-use paths on campus,” he said in an email.
When Jake Rheingold, 21, 
rides his bicycle to classes, he said he feels UF’s commitment to safety is apparent, citing 
what he described as bicycle 
lanes all over and motorists watching for bicyclists sharing the road.
“In some other cities and 
college towns, conditions may not be as favorable,” the UF 
engineering senior said.GNV ranked highest in 
state for bike friendliness
By Kelly Delgado 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Donning a doggy tuxedo, Rusty stood up 
and played a miniature piano Saturday for a crowd of 20 dogs.
At the ninth anniversary celebration for 
a Gainesville dog bakery and day care, the 6-year-old Shih Tzu competed for “Best Trick” and “Best Dressed.”
Diana Sapp, Rusty’s owner and a customer 
at Sweet Paws Bakery, said she drove from Jacksonville to showcase her dog’s talent and support the business, located at 5330 SW 91st Terrace. Judges eventually awarded the dog 
“Best Dressed.”
“I taught Rusty to play the piano instead of 
barking,” Sapp said. “Now he plays the piano 
any time he wants my attention or a treat.”
Started in 2007 by UF veterinary school 
alumna Colleen O’Fallon, Sweet Paws offers 
preservative-free dog treats, a day care and 
grooming services, along with clothing and 
toys.
O’Fallon said the anniversary party was a 
good way to thank her customers, many of whom attended the event.
“Once you start coming here, you become 
a regular,” O’Fallon said. “It’s a sense of com-munity here.”
The anniversary celebration included six 
contests, including “Fluffiest” and “Best Kiss-
er.” There was a $2 entry fee for each event, 
with proceeds going toward Gainesville Pet 
Rescue. The event raised $65 for the shelter.
O’Fallon said she came up with the idea of 
Sweet Paws as a UF senior, when she bought a Cocker Spaniel whom she named Abby.
Because she hated feeding Abby preserva-tive-filled treats, she started making her own 
and eventually opened up Sweet Paws.
But in 2009, her preservative-free bakery 
expanded in size and scope of services. Since then, she has built a devoted customer base.
“This has been a great success,” O’Fallon 
said. 
Marilyn Mahon, a Gainesville resident, 
said she has been taking her Cocker Spaniel, Sunny, to Sweet Paws since she moved to the city eight years ago.
“This place is just wonderful,” Mahon 
said.Dog bakery and day care hosts ninth anniversary celebrationEmma Green / Alligator Staff
RECORD EMBRACES
Charlie Le Grand, a 19-year-old UF sophomore, tells his friends and other students on the Plaza of the Americas how to stand in line before hugging him. He hugged 100 people in one minute to try to beat the previous Guinness world record of 79 hugs. See the video online. 
GPD, ACSO reunite baby deer with mother
•   •   •   •   •   •
•   •   •   •   •   •HOW OTHER 
FLORIDA
CITIES DID
• T allahassee: 38th (First time on the top 50 list)
• Miami: 40th (Down 29 spots from 2014)
• T ampa: 45th (First time on the list)MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales Intern
Resume builder
Personalized classroom trainingFirst-hand sales experienceImprove communication skillsMinimum 10-hour work week
Email resume for internship to 
intern@alligator.orgSales Representative
Gain sales experience
Learn prospecting skillsImprove communication skillsFlexible scheduleNo weekendsEmail resume for sales rep position 
to Shaun O’Connor at 
soconnor@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Fal/l.end 2016
*Must be enrolled in fall classes 
at UF or Santa Fe to apply
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
PREPARING FOR THE
APOCALYPSE
Photos by Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
On Friday evening, the UF Gators vs. Zombies club hosted the Humans vs. Zombies 
Fall Weekend Game. Four hours before the beginning of the game, students met to discuss general rules and safety guidelines for the weekend-long battle in the New Physics Building, Room 1002. Humans vs. Zombies is an outdoor event parented by Gator Connect that mimics a game of tag. The objective is to avoid zombie attacks by using Nerf guns and rolled-up socks as self defense. The battle took place from Friday at midnight to Sunday. 
Above: Matthew Bregg, a 22-year-old computer science senior, practices aiming a customized Nerf gun 
at the Humans vs. Zombies registration session. The meeting was held to discuss general rules for the weekend-long battle on UFcampus that began on Friday evening at midnight. 
Right:  Mary Neill, a 19-year-old economics and statistics student, paints her face on Friday evening in 
preparation for the weekend-long Humans vs. Zombies battle that took place throughout UF’s campus.A collection of Nerf guns lays on display on a table in the New Physics Building, 
Room 1002, during the Humans vs. Zombies registration session on Friday evening. Students used the plastic weapons in a campus-wide battle that took place Friday through Sunday. MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-30-16-29-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
10-12-16-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
Part-time customer service sales associate.Fill out an application in store.The UPS Store #2715, 5745 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL M-F 9am-7pm • Saturdays 9am-5pm     9-28-16-5-14
ACROSS
1 First assassin to
attack Caesar
6 Marvel Comics
mutants
10 Folk singer Joan
14 Arctic or Indian
15 Bit of trickery16 In the style of, in
ristorantes
17 End that “I face,”
in Sinatra’s “MyWay”
20 Feudal laborer
21 Popeye’s Olive
22 Given to giving
orders
23 Grounded Aussie
birds
25 Twirl or whirl
27 Gentlemen’s
partners
30 It has 32 pieces
and a 64-squareboard
34 Surrounded by35 __ accompli
36 Often rolled-over
investment
37 Prepare to fly
41 Kind42 Self-images43 Gold bar44 Vital phase47 Decadent, as the
snobs in a historicAgnew speech
48 Blessed49 Get-out-of-jail
money
50 Drinks with
floating ice cream
53 Windy City
summer hrs.
54 Jersey or
Guernsey
58 Broadway do-or-
die philosophy,and a hint to theends of 17-, 30-,37- and 44-Across
62 Informal negative63 “No __!”: “Easy!”
64 Brief
65 Activist Parks
66 Words meaning
the same thing:Abbr.
67 Furry swimmer
DOWN
1 Emergency
shelter beds
2 Throb3 Fortuneteller4 The jolt in joe?5 “Give me __!”:
start of a Hoosiercheer
6 Diagnostic tests
7 Ponder (over)
8 Top-left PC key
9 Modern, in
Munich
10 Twirled sticks
11 “That’s a shame”
12 Yale alumni13 Madcap18 We, to Henri19 Grand slam
homer quartet,briefly
24 Prefix with hit or
store
25 Backs up in fear26 Cats and dogs27 Eye surgery
acronym
28 More than
enough
29 Foolish, in slang
30 Easily tipped
boat
31 Burn slightly
32 Rye grass
disease
33 Try, as food35 Swimming in pea
soup?
38 Hand out cards39 Coffeehouse
connection40 Like airplane
services
45 California peak
46 British
balderdash
47 Food, in diner
signs
49 Buffalo Wild
Wings nickname
based on its
initials
50 Marquee name
51 Cincinnati’s state52 Family rooms
53 “Let’s get goin’!”
55 Chimney sweep’s
sweepings
56 Passed-down
knowledge
57 __’acte:
intermission
59 Covert or black
doings
60 Droll61 Chinese menu
general
By Lila Cherry©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/26/1609/26/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, September 26, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is 
seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AANeed records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 9/26-9/29 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach-
ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     9-26-5-20
Free college football prediction competition with $500 prize. 1 week left to register. For details check out http://www.thesportpick.com/college-foot -
ball-contest/      9-28-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Event Notices 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
After guaranteeing a win 
against T ennessee, Quincy Wilson and the Florida football team came up short Saturday.Read the column on pg. 14.Florida falls in AP Poll
The Florida football team dropped from No. 19 to No. 23 in the The 
Associated Press T op 25 Poll, released Sunday. UF lost 38-28 to T ennessee on Saturday.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
In the 69th minute, Savannah 
Jordan broke the game open.
The senior weaved between de-fenders to tap in a goal off an assist 
from sophomore Samantha Chung 
from 7 yards out, giving Florida a 
1-0 lead.
Behind a stellar offensive per-
formance led by Jordan, No. 12 Florida broke Tennessee’s three-match winning streak, defeating the Volunteers 2-0 on Sunday night at James G. Pressly Stadium.
“I am just really happy that we 
had a game, because when you sit on a loss like we had on Thursday it’s just great to get back on the field,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said. “All we were looking from our team was a response, and I think that we got that.”
Entering Sunday, Florida (7-
3) (2-2 Southeastern Conference) had dropped two of its last three games, including a 3-0 shutout loss to Auburn in its SEC home opener on Thursday.And after the 45 minutes, Flor-
ida looked to be heading toward another scoreless outing.
The Gators were kept off the 
board in the first half through a great defensive effort by Tennes-see’s goalkeeper Shaw Yanez, who had eight saves.
Florida had 12 shots to Tennes-
see’s two in the first 45 minutes.
Jordan finally broke Florida's 
scoring drought with her goal in the 69th minute, which turned out 
to be all Florida needed due to an 
impressive defensive outing.
“I think our team collectively, 
from the forwards down to our 
keeper, we did a really great job 
defensively,” Jordan said. “I think 
by us, towards the second half, ap-
plying that pressure to their backs put them a little stressed."
But the Gators didn’t stop at-
tacking Tennessee. Freshman Sam-
mie Betters scored the Gators’ final 
goal of the night in the 89th minute from 23 yards away off an assist from sophomore Sarah Troccoli,  
putting Florida up 2-0 and ensur-
ing a win.
It was her first collegiate goal.
“I looked up and saw the back 
post was open so I figured why not go for it,” Betters said. “It’s great to be able to contribute to the team in any way, so being able to score is nice.”
The Volunteers (6-5, 2-2 SEC), 
who have scored a combined seven 
goals in their last three matches, 
were shut out for the first time 
since August 25.
The Gators are now 3-0 in 
games coming off a loss.
They will travel to Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana to take on the LSU Tigers 
on Friday.
              @lstaff27
            lstaff@alligator.orgFlorida earns first SEC home win of season
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan dribbles the ball during Florida's 5-2 win over Iowa State on Aug. 19 at James G. Pressly Stadium. Jordan scored a goal in the 69th minute during UF's 2-0 win over T ennessee on Sunday.
UF shut out Tennessee
FLORIDA HAS NEVER LOST TO 
THE CRIMSON TIDE. 
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Historically, the No. 6-ranked Flori-
da volleyball team has dominated Ala-bama.
Heading into Sunday afternoon’s 
match in Tuscaloosa, the Gators owned a perfect 41-0 record against their Southeastern Conference oppo-nent, dating back to the program’s in-ception. 
And, after a three-set match, that 
streak will continue. 
Despite playing its 10th road game 
of the season, UF swept the Crimson Tide, winning its 12th-consecutive match of the season. 
“To come in and beat this Alabama 
team, which was on such a great run and played so well on Friday night,” coach Mary Wise said in a release, “speaks volumes about our prepara-tion and execution.”
The Gators immediately clawed 
ahead in the first set. Just two days removed from a slow start against Ole Miss, the attacking trio of Alex Holston, Rhamat Alhassan and Carli Snyder powered Florida to an early 10-5 advantage, accounting for five of the team’s seven kills in that span. 
With Alabama pressing late, fresh-
man Rachael Kramer took over, post-ing back-to-back kills and sparking a 6-2 run that pulled Florida ahead 22-16. The Phoenix, Arizona, native finished the set with three kills, swatting away an Alabama attack in the process.
After allowing the Crimson Tide to 
hang around in a 25-22 first-set win, the Gators attack exploded, closing the second frame on a 14-4 run.
Florida’s service game played a 
large part in the outburst. Led by redshirt sophomore Allie Monserez’s consecutive aces, the Gators managed three aces in the set. Freshman defen-
Gators volleyball team sweeps Alabama in Tuscaloosa
Alhassan
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 1614   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Austin Appleby (12) directs the offense during Florida’s 38-28 loss to T ennessee on 
Saturday. Appleby passed for 296 yards, three touchdowns and one interception.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Marcell Harris pumps up his teammates during warmups before Saturday’s game.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Tight end DeAndre Goolsby catches a 3-yard touchdown pass to cap Florida’s opening drive during UF’s 38-28 loss to T ennessee on Saturday at Neyland Stadium.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Florida running back Jordan Cronkrite silences the crowd.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida’s Eddy Pineiro (left) kneels on the sideline at Neyland Stadium.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain (left) looks at cornerback Jalen T abor as T abor is attended to by trainers during UF’s 38-28 loss to T ennessee. T abor finished with four total tackles and one interception.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. — Jalen Tabor could 
only watch as Jauan Jennings bobbled and tipped and tapped the ball to him-self, tiptoeing along the sideline and ﬁ  nishing the remainder of his 67-yard 
touchdown catch by waltzing into the end zone.
Goodbye, lead.Florida held one until the 12:45 mark in 
the fourth quarter. Then, suddenly, Tennessee stopped fearing Florida’s defensive backs and began attacking them.
Tabor’s mistake was followed by another 
when Tennessee receiver Josh Malone strode through Florida’s defense untouched on the Volunteers’ next drive, scoring a 42-yard touch-down.
By the game’s end, Florida corners Quincy 
Wilson and Tabor had combined for two in-terceptions and ﬁ  ve total tackles. But the only statistic they guaranteed a week earlier — a sure-ﬁ  re win over the Volunteers in Knoxville — eluded them in a massive 38-28 Florida collapse Saturday night.
“Being humble, there’s a lot of 
good in that,” coach Jim McElwain said. “As I said, back it up. They didn’t back it up, did they?”
No, they didn’t. After staring 
at a group of reporters after last Tuesday’s practice, assuring them there was no way a duck can pull a truck, or, in other words, that Tennessee would beat Florida, Wilson’s words were proved wrong.
The duck pulled the truck.So maybe we can ﬁ  nally put this meaning-
less metaphor to rest. And, while we’re at it, maybe we can debunk some theories along the way. Let’s start with this one: Florida’s defense is the best in the nation.
The Gators gave up 38 points on Saturday, 
35 of which were scored in the second half, 21 of which were scored in the fourth quarter.
Before Tennessee, Florida had 
played Massachusetts, Kentucky and North Texas, and its defense allowed a startlingly low 14 points combined. 
Now, those teams have a com-
bined record of 5-7. Tennessee is obviously much better than any of them, and even so, Florida’s de-
fense looked dominant in the ﬁ  rst half. There were three-and-outs forced, passes intercepted and sacks aplenty. 
And then, not so much. In the second half 
Florida had busted coverages, little pressure in the backﬁ  eld and, according to McElwain, many missed tackles.
Quincy Wilson, what was all that trash talk 
for?
“I’m not answering that question,” he said. “That’s just what we do.”
Maybe it is. Maybe Florida’s defensive backs 
have a long lineage of trash-talking opponents, passed down through collegiate legends Joe Haden and Vernon Hargreaves and others. 
But they also have a recent history of domi-
nance on defense. The Gators have ranked in the nation’s top 20 in scoring defense in every season since 2011.
And maybe that’s where they are right now. 
Not the best defense in the nation like they claim to be, but the 20th best.
That isn’t a bad thing. In fact, that’s a really 
good thing.
But a 20th-ranked defense and a 35-point 
second-half collapse after broken promises and delusions of grandeur surely doesn’t mean you’re the best in the nation.
Ian Cohen is the sports editor. You can 
contact him at icohen@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @icohenb.  
 Contrary to its claims, Florida’s defense isn’t the best in the nation
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Cornerback Quincy Wilson (right) yells at a T ennessee player while being restrained by teammate Chauncey Gardner during Florida’s 38-28 loss to the Volunteers on Saturday at Neyland Stadium.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Antonio Callaway fumbles while trying to ﬁ  eld a punt during the ﬁ  rst quarter of Florida’s loss to T ennessee on Saturday.
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenbIT’S COHEN DOWN / OPINION
Mark Thompson said. “So, you know, the season isn’t 
over.”
Cornerback Quincy Wilson, who slammed the Volun-
teers this past week by likening them to ducks and guaran-teeing a Florida win, echoed Thompson’s sentiment. 
“National championship teams always go in there with 
one loss,” he said. “We ain’t worried about it.”
Florida’s trash-talking defense strolled into Rocky Top 
boasting the country’s lowest yards per game (129.7) and 
points per game (4.7). 
But it left embarrassed.
The ﬁ  rst half was reminiscent of the team’s ﬁ  rst three 
games. 
UF stonewalled Tennessee’s Josh Dobbs-led attack on 
the goal line multiple times. One of those led to a Wilson interception in the end zone. 
By halftime, his prediction looked promising. The Gators led 21-3, and it looked like DBU was set to 
rack up another win over Tennessee and back up all the chirping it did. 
But UF’s third quarter, and the second half as a whole, 
was ugly. 
“I’ve never seen us come in the locker room like that 
at the half and then come back out like that,” Wilson said. 
Part of the problem was a shift to a more predictable 
run-based play calling from Florida’s coaching staff. 
But another part was defensive miscues and busted cov-
erages that Anzalone said occurred “more than we’d like.”
Even though Tennessee was still down 21-17 at the 
start of the fourth, UT players sprinted when the ball was ﬂ  ipped to the other side of the ﬁ  eld. On the sideline, re-
serves bounced around like they had already won. 
Meanwhile, Florida’s energy was nonexistent. 
And it stayed that way until the Gators ﬁ  led off the ﬁ  eld 
while Tennessee fans sang along to Journey’s “Don’t Stop Believing.”
After the game, Wilson ﬁ  elded questions from a circle of 
reporters outside the locker room. He spoke softly, almost as if he were humbled. 
Even though he said he didn’t regret any of his smack 
talk, he said the loss may have been for the better. It taught his team a lesson.
“When we get up by a lot, just keep pushing, keep go-
ing,” Wilson said. “Keep doing the things we were doing to 
get up like that and not get content.”
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 1‘You know, the 
season isn’t over’16   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2016
sive specialist Chanelle Hargreaves also re-
corded an ace in the 25-14 set win. 
A set removed from victory, All-Ameri-
can outside hitter Holston stepped up.
Registering a hitting percentage of .444, 
the native of Olney, Maryland, posted six of her team-leading 14 total kills in the deci-sive third frame. Holston ﬁ  nished the match with a team-high 15 points, chipping in a 
solo block in addition to ﬁ  ve digs.
In total, ﬁ  ve different Gators posted a kill 
in the third set.
However, Florida’s big three was the driving force behind the clinching perfor-
mance. Accounting for 87.5 percent of the team’s third-set kills, Alhassan, Snyder and 
Holston spiked home 14 of UF’s 16 success-
ful attacks. 
After opening their conference slate 
on the road, the Gators will return to the Lemerand Athletic Center on Wednesday to begin a two-match home stand against the Kentucky Wildcats before squaring off against Tennessee on Oct. 2. With a 12-1 re-cord (2-0 SEC), UF currently sits atop the conference standings. 
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.org VOLLEY,  from pg 13Holston led UF with 14 kills
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Rachael Kramer (right) attempts a block during Florida's 3-0 win over Jacksonville on Sept. 16 in the Lemerand Center. 
