We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 149 TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016
Gators softball swept Regional play
UF begins Super Regionals on Thursday, pg. 19
Gators softball swept Regional play
UF grad bikes for charity
She will travel almost 4,000 miles, pg. 5
Research Roundup
Nile crocodiles, fox squirrels and sea turtles, pg. 12Gatorloop team looks forward
Members are preparing for a summer contest, pg. 8
  pg. 8
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Jordan Decker, 3, pets the Asian Forest Scorpion that Rebecca Baldwin, an assistant professor and 
undergraduate coordinator for UF’s Entomology and Nematology Department, holds during UF’s Bug Week Kickoff on Saturday morning.  Baldwin demonstrated how the scorpion ﬂ  uoresces under UV light at the Florida Museum of Natural History.
By Jessica Rodriguez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
About 500 adults and 260 chil-
dren attended Saturday’s inaugural 
event for Bug Week at the Florida 
Museum of Natural History, which 
will continue online through Fri-day. 
About 40 families used bug-
related hints and navigated the Florida Museum during a scaven-ger hunt.
Kids also earned stickers for 
holding bugs such as cockroaches, 
spiders and scorpions in the petting 
zoo.
Michael Gonzalez, a 24-year-
old UF entomology and nematol-
ogy graduate student, dressed as 
a cockroach and handled bugs for the crowd. 
Since many people only inter-
act with bugs when killing them in 
their homes, they are often seen as 
gross “things,” Gonzalez said. 
Entomology is about more than 
just creepy, crawly creatures. Gon-
zalez said the ﬁ  eld plays an impor-
tant role in areas such as forensics, anthropology and technology.
“Dragonﬂ  ies can use each wing 
independently,” he said. “The mili-tary studies them to imitate that kind of ﬂ  ight.”
Bug Week is held partly to edu-
cate visitors about opportunities 
within the Entomology and Nema-
tology Department, said Rebecca Baldwin, an assistant professor and the department’s undergradu-
ate coordinator.
If a certain bug eats a resident’s 
lawn or even their clothes, Baldwin 
said, they can have the culprit ana-lyzed at the department.
She said this year’s theme, “Big 
Money Bugs,” focuses on bugs that cause costly damage, such as ter-mites.
Other Bug Week activities, such 
as interviews with entomologists, will be held online and through so-cial media. 
A list of upcoming events can 
be found at bugs.uﬂ  .edu, and 
residents can ﬁ  nd updates using 
#UFBugs. 
jrodriguez@alligator.org UF Bug Week shares ‘the good, the bad and the bugly’
LOCAL
SOME NEIGHBORHOODS 
NO LONGER RECEIVE 
PIZZA DELIVERIES.
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Five Star Pizza will stop de-
livering to Granada Apartments in Northwest Gainesville after a delivery driver was robbed and hospitalized. 
At about 12:30 a.m. on Sun-
day, an unidentiﬁ  ed man attacked 23-year-old Jacob Case with a metal bat during a delivery. 
Case, a driver for the South-
west Second Avenue location, said he knocked on the door and waited for an answer that never came. 
He then walked to his car and 
called a phone number listed on the order. Once again, nobody an-swered.  
Though his memory fades af-
ter the phone call, Case said he turned around and a man abrupt-ly appeared and hit him in the head.
The next few seconds were 
spent on top of the pizzas, uncon-scious, Case said. 
“The whole time I was kind 
of just like ‘what the fuck’ over and over again,” he said. “I was on my hands and knees spitting out blood and the whole time he kept yelling at me like ‘give me the money, give me the money.’”
Case said he gave his wallet to 
the man, who took about $35 and ran away.  Case then drove about eight blocks to the police depart-ment, where authorities then called an ambulance.Due to hemophilia, Case said 
his blood does not clot well, 
meaning he could easily perish 
from blood loss. 
“I could hardly even see be-
cause my face was gushing with 
blood,” Case said. “With bleed-
ing, with trauma like that, I was 
basically about to die if I wouldn’t 
have made it to the hospital.”
Ernie Kimbler, the owner of 
Five Star Pizza for 16 years, said there are about a dozen areas the company now avoids after similar incidents.  
He also said employees with 
concealed weapons permits are allowed to carry whatever they feel is needed for protection.
However, it is uncommon for 
delivery drivers to get hurt on the job, said Gainesville Police Gainesville delivery man robbed, 
knocked unconscious By Monica Andrade
Alligator Staff Writer
Packaged foods will soon be 
marked with a new label.
The Food and Drug Adminis-
tration announced Friday a new 
Nutrition Facts label, which many 
manufacturers need to adopt by 
July 26, 2018.
According to the release, 
the label’s “iconic” look won’t change. However, the type size of certain words will increase, while the list of nutrients will also be updated. 
Notably, manufacturers will 
need to disclose the added sugars in grams.
Linda Bobroff, a UF professor 
and extension nutrition specialist, said she thinks requiring added sugars is an important change the FDA has made.
“What we’re concerned about 
are added sugars,” Bobroff said. 
“The amount of sugar in milk is 
not a concern when it’s from the lactose. We’re concerned about if it’s chocolate milk and it has added sugars.”
While information about 
sugars has the potential to help people make healthier choices, 
Bobroff said she and other nutri-
tionists are concerned about the increase in serving size.
Serving sizes are being in-
creased because it’s based on the amount of foods and drinks people are actually consuming, the release said.
“I understand that it’s good for 
people to have realistic informa-tion,” Bobroff said. But normal-izing serving sizes can be dan-gerous if people are eating more than they should.
UF business junior Yessenia 
Olvera said although she thinks it will increase the problem with obesity, it depends on the person.
“Not everyone has the same 
body,” the 20-year-old said. “Having a standard is very difﬁ  -cult.”  FDA introduces new 
nutrition facts label
SEE PIZZA,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.HIGH  88° LOW  63°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
'Puffs; or, Seven Increasingly 
Eventful Years at a Certain 
School of Magic and Magic'
The UF School of Theatre + 
Dance is pleased to present “Puffs; or, Seven Increasingly Eventful Years at a Certain 
School of Magic and Magic,” 
a new play currently in devel-opment by a team of award-winning artists and producers. Puffs tells the story of an “or-
dinary” young man, who finds 
out he’s a wizard and travels to a certain school of mag-ic, where he is placed in the 
“Puffs,” a group of loyal and 
good intentioned misfits. Over the course of his seven years at the school, he gets thrown into situations both dangerous 
and ridiculous. Performances 
will be held in the Black Box Theatre in the McGuire Theatre + Dance Pavilion from June 
2 to 5. Performance times are 
7:30 p.m. from June 2 to 4, and 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. on June 5. Tickets and more information are available at arts.ufl.edu.  
Observing Mars at the Campus 
Teaching Observatory on Friday
On Monday, Mars will be at 
the closest distance from Earth for the next couple of years. The distance will be 0.5 astro-nomical units (about 75 mil-
lion kilometers). Its angular 
diameter will be 19 arc sec-onds, the largest in the next two years. It will shine as a 
reddish, bright object with a 
magnitude of -2.0 in the con-stellation Scorpius. The UF Department of Astronomy will open the Campus Teaching 
Observatory on Friday from 9 
p.m. to 11 p.m. to show Mars, Jupiter, Saturn and other ob-jects. Several telescopes will be set up, including the histor-
ic 8-inch Alvan Clark refractor. 
Astronomers, volunteers and staff will be at the observatory to help with the telescopes, 
provide information and an-
swer questions. This is a free and public event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgettenberg@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
NATIONAL
Many Vietnam vets say they 
support lifting of arms embargo 
CHICAGO (AP) — The way 
Terry Neilen sees it, lifting the ban on U.S. arms sales to 
Vietnam makes sense in the face 
of China's growing influence in the region.Fellow Vietnam veteran Ned 
Foote said Americans long ago 
forgave Germany and Japan for World War II, so there's no reason not to do the same with Vietnam."We're actually acting as a team in a sense," said Neilen, of Saratoga Springs, New York, 
who served in the Army in-
fantry in Vietnam in 1967 and 1968. "They're joining together to give a show of strength."Foote, who heads the New 
York State Council of Vietnam 
Veterans of America, noted that the Vietnamese have helped ac-count for missing American ser-
vice members.
President Barack Obama's de-cision to lift the half-century-old arms embargo was seen Monday by many veterans as 
a logical outgrowth of efforts to 
normalize relations between the U.S. and the Southeast Asian nation that has become a major 
trading partner since the war 
ended in 1975.Obama, looking to bolster a government regarded as a cru-cial ally in the region, vowed to 
leave behind the troubled histo-
ry between the former enemies and embrace a new era."The war's over," said Bernard 
Edelman, the deputy director 
of government affairs for the Vietnam Veterans of America.He said the organization has not taken an official position 
on the president's action, but 
he compared it to U.S. efforts after World War II to normalize relations with Japan, Germany, 
Austria and Italy.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Emma Green, egreen@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome, Kaelah Scheff  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Joseph Fitzgerald, Britney Jenkins, 
  Jessica Lennon, Caroline Rhoades, 
  Matthews Silva. Donovan Vazquez  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 149
TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
TOP: Gator fans cheer during the UF vs. Alabama softball game in the Katie 
Seashole Pressly Softball Stadium on Friday. The Gators won 11-0.
RIGHT:  Justine McLean, number 52, a UF public relations junior, smiles at her 
teammates in the dugout as she waits for her turn to bat during UF’s first 
championship game against Alabama.
PLA Y BALL
Photos by Emma Green
photo@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016
spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
“Gainesville as a whole does 
have its problems with crime in 
some areas, but our food deliv-
ery guys in town are very good 
at keeping themselves safe and 
knowing where they should and should not deliver,” he said. 
The attack, Case said, was 
likely planned because the apart-
ment was vacant and the phone 
number belonged to a woman in 
Rhode Island. 
“I’m glad it was me instead 
of somebody else, though,” Case 
said. 
As of press time, a fundraiser 
on generosity.com has resulted in 
about $2,500 in donations to sup-port Case.
@saradmarino
Do not deliver:
• Cedar Ridge
• Holly Heights 
• Gordon Manor
• Linton Oaks Neighborhood 
• Tower Oaks Glen
• 44th Place in Tower Village
• Majestic Oaks 
• Turtle Oaks
• Mossy Oaks
• Southern Pines
• Five Oaks
• Woodcrest PIZZA,  from pg. 1Delivery drivers may carry legal weapons for protection34th Street
T ower Village ApartmentsT ower Oaks GlennApartmentsLinton OaksNeighborhoodGordon ManorNeighborhoodHolly HeightsCedar Ridge34th Street
T ower Village ApartmentsT ower Oaks GlennApartmentsLinton OaksNeighborhoodGordon ManorNeighborhoodHolly HeightsCedar Ridge
SW 20th Ave
SW Archer RdI-7
5I-7
5Gordon ManorGordon ManorGordon ManorGordon ManorGordon ManorGordon ManorGordon Manor
NeighborhoodNeighborhoodNeighborhoodNeighborhoodNeighborhoodNeighborhoodNeighborhoodNeighborhoodTUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Amanda Brown, a 26-year-old Alachua Elementary School teacher, poses with her road 
bike on the Plaza of the Americas. The affordable housing advocator will ride 3,963 miles from Portland, Maine, to Santa Barbara, California, with the nonprofit Bike and Build.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Amanda Brown was 8 years old, 
she was gifted a sparkling new bike. Even 
though the sparkle faded, Brown rode the bike all the way through her undergradu-
ate and graduate studies at UF.
Now a teacher at Alachua Elementary 
School, she has set out to take the ulti-mate biking journey. 
This summer, Brown and 27 other rid-
ers will take off for a 3,963-mile ride with the nonprofit organization Bike and Build 
to ride from Portland, Maine, to Santa Barbara, California, to support affordable 
housing. The trip will take 10 weeks to 
complete.
Only a few months ago, she traded in 
her beloved bike for a road one, courtesy of Bike and Build, after she raised her first 
$1,000. 
All bikers in the cross-country routes 
have to raise at least $4,500 for the orga-nization in order to participate. On their 
track, the bikers will make several stops 
in communities to build houses and give 
presentations about affordable housing.
All the bikers get their donations in  
different ways, but Ashley Whitehead, a UF veterinary student serving as Brown’s 
mentor, organized an Easter egg hunt for 
part of her donations. 
“It was kind of funny seeing a lot of 25-year-olds looking for Easter eggs,” she 
said. 
As an elementary school teacher for 
low-income students, Brown sees first-hand how big of a difference affordable housing can make. 
“All the state really sees is the per-
formance, the test scores and stuff, but 
there’s so much more that goes into it,” 
Brown said, “and when you have kids that needs aren’t being met at home, 
whether hunger or homelessness, then it’s that much harder to teach them in the 
classroom.”
To prepare for the trip, Bike and Build 
recommends its cyclists ride a minimum 
of 500 miles before the trip — Brown has 
completed more than 1,000. 
Brown met Whitehead through the 
Bike and Build Facebook page. Since 
then, Whitehead has shared her words of wisdom with Brown about the long trip. 
The experience itself, Whitehead said, 
“was literally the best summer of my en-
tire life.” 
Both cyclists said Gainesville residents 
don’t have to cycle to help the affordable housing cause, as they can join organi-
zations such as Habitat for Humanity or 
Weatherization Assistance Program.
“Tackling and adjusting the affordable 
housing cause is something that has to come first in order to help (low-income 
students) achieve,” Brown said.UF grad bikes across U.S. to support affordable housing
LOCAL
By Justin Ford
Alligator Contributing Writer
This Wednesday, Gainesville lo-
cals can participate in a tree-planting 
project to commemorate National 
Bike Month, which is held in May. 
The tree planting will take place 
along a portion of the downtown connector bike trail at Southeast 
10th Avenue and Southeast Veitch 
Street between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. 
The tree-planting effort relates to 
National Bike Month by way of envi-
ronmentalism and trail practicality. 
“Trees provide shade, scenery, 
better air, food and even habitation for our environment,” said Chip Skinner, the marketing and commu-nications supervisor for the Regional 
Transit System. The trees “always 
work well along our area, biking and walking trails.” 
In 2012, the Bicycle Pedestrian 
Advisory Board, an advisory group 
to the City and County Commis-
sions, planted trees for National Bike Month along the Waldo Road Greenway trail from Northeast 39th 
Avenue to Northeast 23rd Avenue.
“I think it’s (National Bike Month) 
a great opportunity to promote an 
economic friendly alternative to ei-ther car or bus,” said Hamza Ashraf, 
a 20-year-old UF mathematics major 
and local cyclist. “The tree planting effort coinciding with bike month is a great merger of efforts to lessen the 
carbon footprint we leave behind.”
No experience is necessary to 
participate in the tree-planting 
event. Anyone interested may RSVP to help at surveymonkey.com/r/
YWTQSMC.City, citizens plant trees, celebrate National Bike Month The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.What happens 
in Nevada... But 
seriously, what 
happened?
By now, most of you have probably heard about what hap-
pened at Nevada’s state Democratic caucus on May 14. Violence, chair throwing, verbal harassment, a California senator fearing for her life: At least, this is what happened according to many Democratic officials and major media.
All you need to do is turn to the evidence: not word of mouth, 
but the dozens of live stream videos from people who attended the caucus. You’ll find no evidence of violence, whatsoever. No arrests were made at the caucus: no charges of violence filed. As for the “chair throwing,” there’s evidence of one man picking up a chair but, then, putting it back down. If anything, he was closer to throwing out his back by picking up the chair so quickly.
In regard to Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., who told CNN on 
Wednesday, “I feared for my safety,” her recounting of the event 
and her feelings seem to contradict the video evidence of her 
sarcastically blowing kisses to likely Bernie Sanders supporters as she walked off stage with her police escort. But rather than follow up with Boxer for this disparity, CNN instead used her as a talk-ing point to further perpetuate the notion that Sanders supporters got violent enough to make a senator “fear for her life.”
 Now, in turning to the evidence, you will without a doubt see 
a debacle of shouting and disdain. But rather than assume on an inherently violent nature of an entire group of people, who sup-
port a candidate with a strong advocacy for non-violent change 
and condemnation of “any and all forms of violence, including personal harassment of individuals,” we should instead look to why Nevada erupted the way it did.
 As The Las Vegas Sun reported, Sanders and Hillary Clinton 
supporters were divided over whether to adopt a temporary set of convention rules as permanent.
There was also the issue of why 58 district-level Sanders del-
egates were denied entry to the state caucus, while only eight 
Clinton delegates were denied. State party officials claimed these 
delegates were denied because either their records could not be found or they were not registered Democrats by May 1.
Despite these issues, Roberta Lange, the head of the caucus, 
and the state party largely ignored the official motions filed by Sanders supporters and for the concerns that made it to a voice vote (“aye” or “nay”). Lange seemed to rush the voting and give it to Clinton’s side, as evidenced in the video recordings.  
Now, we at the Alligator aren’t asking you to support one can-
didate or the other, and we aren’t telling you how to feel about the caucus. What we do want you to think about is how major news outlets have mishandled this situation.
Instead of obscuring what really happened, the media should 
be investigating the real issues. Were all of Sanders’ delegates really unregistered, given the propensity of voter purging regis-tration this election cycle? Did Lange and the state party inappro-priately handle the voice votes? Was the integrity of the caucus process maintained?
If this election cycle has taught us anything, it’s that much 
of our big-name media has devolved to pure punditry. Further-more, while there is an army of good journalists out there do-ing tremendous work, the media machine that dominates our TV and social media is doing us a disservice. The coverage of Nevada is only a sound example of a festering problem.Hillary Clinton is going to face a tough election
As the election season is shifting gears 
into the general, with the two pre-sumptive nominees beginning to 
attack each other, there is still a 
glaring lack of policy or anything 
resembling it. Last week was plagued with attack ads from both candidates in regard to 
each other’s history with women. It reminds 
me of the Mark Twain quote, “Never argue with a fool, onlookers won’t be able to tell the difference.” One of the candidates is a master of making politicians look like fools.
Secretary Hillary Clinton must avoid the “Trump 
trap,” which is becoming too involved in the minor, or nonissue, attacks against her character, or else the election will turn into an insult festival with noth-
ing actually being discussed. The “Trump trap” has 
brought down many of Donald Trump’s opponents who tried fighting fire with fire this primary season. Marco Rubio is probably the best example of this. Ru-bio attempted to give Trump a dose of his own medi-
cine with remarks attacking him personally, but in the 
end, it got us a debate where Trump talked about how endowed his “hands” were, and it led to the close of Rubio’s campaign.
Clinton has to also avoid dismissing Trump’s rheto-
ric altogether. Although Trump says he is a counter puncher, there is no doubt he has thrown punches first and will continue to do so in the general election. Clin-ton will have to respond to these punches, but not in 
a way that would fall into the previously mentioned 
Trump trap.
I think the debates during the general election will 
be a place for Clinton to mount an offensive against 
Trump’s campaign strategy of talking about everything but the issues. During the more complex por-
tions of the Republican debates, Trump was uncharacteristically silent, especially on for-
eign policy issues. This is a point Clinton 
should exploit; Trump may be a good talker, but there is no way for him to fudge foreign policy knowledge he simply does not have.
The election has a long way to go, but it 
will be down to the wire, whoever the win-ner may be. Both candidates have a lot of 
ground to recover with the American public in an elec-tion that cares deeply about perceptions rather than 
actual substance. In this environment, Clinton needs a 
lot of help with her unfavorability ratings: the highest only after Trump. However, this is barely a problem for Trump, as it appears his unfavorable rating is de-
creasing in relation with his uniting a substantial por-
tion of the GOP behind him in some capacity.
Clinton has experience with campaigning and gov-
erning more than Trump does, but she is still facing what might be the toughest election of her political 
career. She is facing someone who is more distant than 
anyone else in political history and does not have to abide by the “normal” rules of politics. This definitely gives Trump more room to navigate and attack, which 
is not available to the former secretary of state.
There is still a lot of time left, and things will begin 
to even out when Clinton becomes the official Dem-
ocratic nominee and receives some assistance from prominent and popular people in the Democratic Par-
ty, such as President Barack Obama and Sen. Bernie 
Sanders, I presume, on the campaign trail.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science senior. His 
column appears on Tuesdays.
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.orgIt was last summer when I was first con-
fronted with the infamous controversial 
beast that is the unisex restroom. I was in-
terning at an environmental research firm 
in the heart of Jerusalem, the holiest city 
on earth. The Jerusalem Municipality is the formal institution that governs the city, and, 
because Jerusalem houses both the people and 
holy sites of the three major Abrahamic reli-
gions, holy men and women serve in the local government in a variety of ways.
During our downtime we would have infor-
mal talks about a variety of topics. After hours 
of discussion with some of the holiest Jews, 
Muslims and Christians, let me say this: If you 
oppose unisex bathrooms because of biblical 
and/or religious reasons, you’re really just an 
asshole using God as an excuse to extend your 
own personal, bigoted agenda.
Not that I don’t have an agenda either: I’m a columnist in a left-leaning student newspaper. In my ideal world, public 
restrooms would exist in two variet-
ies: one for Zachary Lee, and one for 
everybody else. I treat my body like 
a human vacuum-tornado, violently 
consuming all sorts of food and non-
food items in my hangry, destructive 
path. The motivation for my two-
bathroom distinction is not rooted in religious ideology.
Oklahoma state lawmakers not 
only introduced a resolution asking 
Oklahoma’s congressional representatives to 
impeach President Barack Obama, the U.S. 
attorney general, the U.S. secretary of educa-
tion and others over a recommendation that 
schools allow students to use the stalls of their 
choosing, but also did so on the grounds that the recommendation is “biblically wrong." These lawmakers are misguided.
In the 1960s, it wasn’t uncom-
mon for segregationists to cite the Bible to justify their racist policies. 
Now, we’re living in the second 
evolution of this oppressive ideol-
ogy. With rates of religiosity de-
creasing in the U.S. and abroad, 
it’s comforting to know that this 
line of logic will soon no longer be relevant to our political landscape.
In my research, I have yet to 
find a single instance of a restroom 
assault by a transgender individual. However, there seems to be plenty of examples of cis-
gendered men and women attacking transgen-
der individuals who try to seclude themselves 
in the privacy of a stall. Moreover, there are 
too many accounts of cisgendered men and women attacking children in their “correct” restroom placements.
Even if such an attack was propagated by 
a transgender individual, surely this is a sign of the propagator’s own problems. We don’t 
blame heterosexuality and/or the normal “gen-
der alignment” when a cisgendered individual 
assaults a person — or worse, a child — in a 
restroom: We blame the creepy pervert. For 
some reason, this logic falls to the wayside 
when transgender individuals are involved.
Whether you’re justifying your logic in a 
book written thousands of years ago or justify-ing it in illogical arguments about the safety of 
children, know that this “fear” is nothing more 
than transphobia. These people are just trying 
to do what anyone else does at a public rest-
room: Go in, do what needs to be done and get 
the hell out of there as soon as possible.
Zachary Lee is a UF philosophy senior. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.ColumnTUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
Guest Column
Worried about money in politics? 
Here’s the perfect case study.
The Dietary Guidelines for Amer-
icans, issued every five years, pur-
portedly, “(reflect) the current body 
of nutrition science,” and, “help Americans make healthy food and beverage choices.”
Yet, one science-based and health-con-
scious piece of advice is conspicuously miss-
ing from the just-released dietary guidelines: “Eat less meat.” Yes, the intense political battle 
leading up to the Obama administration’s issue 
of the new guidelines has caused officials to 
backpedal on their preliminary recommenda-
tions released in February 2015 — and many 
experts are pointing to outside corporate influ-ence.
Despite “strong evidence” eating 
less meat and processed meat re-
duces risk for cardiovascular disease, 
and “moderate evidence” a low-meat 
diet decreases risk for diabetes, obe-
sity and certain cancers — statements 
made deep within the new document 
— there is no hardline stance on re-
ducing meat intake.
What’s clear is the meat industry 
got its hooks into the formulation of the final document. With farm state 
allies in Congress and significant lobbying 
funds, organizations like the National Cattle-
men’s Beef Association and the National Pork Producers Council hold immense 
political power. These groups and 
their friends in Congress success-
fully pressured the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture and the De-
partment of Health and Human 
Services to omit the anti-meat 
language.
Many health and food politics 
experts are crying foul. Particu-larly, they are calling attention to 
the close relationship between the 
meat industry and the USDA, the 
government agency that regulates the food in-dustry. Marion Nestle, who formerly served as 
an expert advisor to the USDA and HHS as they devised the Dietary Guidelines, revealed that in 
the past she was told, “we could never say ‘eat 
less meat’ because USDA wouldn’t allow it.”  
Robert Lustig, a pediatric endocrinologist at the 
University of California, San Francisco, stated 
that granting the USDA the responsibility of 
writing the Dietary Guidelines is like “putting 
the fox in charge of the hen house.”
The ability of the meat industry to influence 
what is ostensibly a purely scientific and public health-focused set of guidelines is breathtak-
ing. Perhaps we need to start getting our nutri-
tion advice elsewhere.
Praveen Varanasi is the president of 
Vegan Eating for Gators and a campus coor-
dinator for The Humane League.Praveen 
Varanasi
Speaking OutZachary
Lee
opinions@alligator.orgRestroom arguments are nothing more than illogical fear, transphobia
The influence of corporate industry undermines our new dietary guidelines8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016
By Ryan Serpico
Alligator Contributing Writer
Members of Gatorloop share more than just a team 
name. 
The 55-member group is mostly comprised of engi-
neering undergraduates with fond memories of tearing 
things apart and seeing how they tick.
For many, Legos served as an early building block 
in their pursuit to become engineers. Now, the team 
will compete against 28 other teams in Hawthorne, 
California, this summer. 
Neither the competition date nor the prize have 
been announced. 
“If a toy broke or something when I was growing 
up, I didn’t cry and get it replaced,” said Taylor Waber, a 23-year-old UF aerospace engineering graduate stu-dent and the team’s captain. “I would unscrew it and figure out what was broken and fix it myself.”
Elon Musk, the co-founder of PayPal and Tesla 
Motors, will host the competition with his company SpaceX. 
SpaceX unveiled the conceptual Hyperloop, a high-
speed ground transport system, in 2013, according to 
its website. 
The Hyperloop uses pods in an airless tube to trans-
port both people and goods from one place to another 
in a fraction of the time that it currently takes.
Following Elon Musk’s announcement of the 
competition, Waber posted on Facebook engineering groups in hopes of forming a Hyperloop team. UF stu-dents Ben Duncan, 21, and Sebastian Quesada, 25, had 
already started their own groups; the trio merged in 
Summer 2015.
Matison Whillans, a 21-year-old UF mechanical en-
gineering senior, is the team’s system integration lead. 
The team, she said, believes in the concept’s im-
portance.  
“I think it would really revolutionize how we do 
business, how things are shipped, how basically the entire economy works,” Whillans said. 
A large, torpedo-like object sits in the middle of UF’s 
Energy Research and Education Park, located less than a mile from Oxford Manor Apartments. 
The team will one day launch its pod at 250 miles-
per-hour down a 1-mile track at the competition.
As of press time, Gatorloop’s GoFundMe has raised 
about $5,000, which will fund the project and its recent breakthroughs. 
Grace Everitt, Gatorloop’s marketing, public rela-
tions and sponsorship lead, said the Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering also awarded the team with a $35,000 grant.
Jaime Caicedo, a 27-year-old UF electrical engineer-
ing doctoral student and the team’s electrical systems 
lead, said winning would not be the only prize.  
“We put so much work into this,” he said. “What-
ever happens, if that thing runs and doesn’t burn or 
crash, it’s going to be great.”Gatorloop engineering team 
works to make concept a reality
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gatorloop captain and co-founder T aylor Waber, left, and another 
member of the engineering club start to make the mold for the pod for SpaceX’s Hyperloop competition.
MORE THAN 300 GUESTS AT -
TENDED THE ENDANGERED SPE -
CIES AWARENESS DAY.
By Cameron Cobb
Alligator Contributing Writer
Even without echolocation, hundreds 
found their way to the Lubee Bat Con-
servancy for an opportunity to learn 
about endangered species.
The conservancy’s second annual En-
dangered Species Awareness Day took 
place Saturday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
and attracted more than 300 guests. The 
event was held to raise awareness of threatened and endangered animals.
Guests of all ages made crafts and 
purchased merchandise, such as endan-
gered animal face masks, stuffed bats 
and T-shirts. Guests also created bats from craft supplies and launched them into the air.Anthony Mason, the head keeper at 
the the conservancy, said he thinks it is important to realize there areevery-where, not just in Florida.
“People do get a little disconnected 
from nature and from the outdoors, and the more disconnected we get from that, the harder it is to feel empathy for ani-mals,” Mason said. 
Multiple speakers represented con-
servation organizations for various ani-mals at the event, including the Flori-da manatee and sea turtles, said Tracy 
Pope, a program coordinator at the LBC.
Pope said guests could practice pres-
ervation at home installing bat and bird-
houses and growing native plants. Even creating home compost and recycling 
paper, cans, bottles and food waste can 
make a huge impact, she said.
“There are things out there that ev-
eryone can do to make a difference,” 
Pope said. “(With) just a small change 
in your life, you’re actually helping.”Helping endangered species By Natalie Calvo
Alligator Contributing Writer
David Swanson, a 2015 Nobel 
Peace Prize nominee, spoke about 
his newest book, “War is a Lie,” to an audience of roughly 70 on Sat-urday.
Rather than focus on individual 
wars, Swanson analyzed noble ide-als used to justify wars in the pub-lic sphere. 
“War is one of the top worst 
things we do,” Swanson said, ex-
plaining why he chose to write 
about violent conflicts. “I think 
having a good life and being an 
ethical, moral person is trying to 
stop the worst things that are hap-
pening.”During his speech at Unitarian 
Universalist Fellowship, located at 4225 NW 34th St., Swanson dis-
cussed presidential candidates, me-
dia coverage of wars, the public’s 
aversion to uncomfortable news, 
military spending and global per-
ceptions of America.
Gainesville’s Veterans for Peace, 
a national organization that advo-cates for nonviolent social change, 
invited Swanson to speak. 
“It’s true what he said,” said 
Sheila Payne, an associate mem-
ber of the organization. “We all 
look away from headlines we don’t 
want to see.”
Saturday was Swanson’s final 
day in Florida. Last week, Swanson 
spoke to audiences in Sarasota and Jacksonville. 
Diane Carlin, a resident of The 
Villages, Florida, asked Swanson 
how she can trust his version of 
history.
“I footnote and hyperlink,” he 
said. “You have to look at multiple original sources and undisputable 
sources. Unpleasant does not equal 
untrue.”Virginia author visits Gainesville, advocates nonviolence
Kathleen Hyatt / Alligator 
Joe Cicero, a UF research scientist, hands a tarantula to attendee Mark Xby in the 
booth for the UF Entomology and Nematology Outreach Program during the Endan-gered Species Awareness Day at the Lubee Bat Conservancy on Saturday. It was the first time Xby had held a tarantula.TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Jessica Rodriguez 
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Solar-powered lights will be installed at 
24 Regional Transport System bus stops in 
the Greater Gainesville area by the end of 
June.
The Federal Transit Administration will 
fund the $36,120 project to improve visibility 
and safety at each location, according to a press release.
Bus stop renovations usually focus on 
better accessibility and shelter, along with new trash cans and benches, Chip Skinner, the marketing and communication supervi-sor for RTS, wrote in an email. 
“In the last year, however, we have re-
ceived additional requests for bus stop light-ing from both passengers and drivers,” he wrote. There are approximately 1,200 RTS bus 
stops in Gainesville, Skinner wrote. 
Factors such as the amount of people who 
ride at night and the length of a route’s ser-vice, along with current lighting levels and supervisor opinions, inﬂ  uenced which stops will receive the new lights, Skinner wrote.
The majority of lights will be installed in 
the area between Southwest Archer Road and Southwest Williston Road, especially along Southwest 34th Street. 
Ridgemar Commons, The Laurels Apart-
ments, Hunter’s Run Apartments and Lex-ington Crossing Apartments will have the new lights nearby. 
Because of a multi-year contract between 
RTS and Tolar Manufacturing, Skinner wrote, Urban Solar will provide the lights.
Gainesville Police spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben 
Tobias said additional lighting is one of the 
basics of crime prevention.
“Anytime you have a well-lit area, crimi-
nals are likely to move on to another area,” 
he said.  
jrodriguez@alligator.org RTS to install solar-powered lights at select bus stops
By Kathryn Farr
Alligator Contributing Writer
Despite fewer UF students living in 
Gainesville during the summer, the Union 
Street Farmers Market keeps its liveliness.
So far, farmers say the decrease in visi-
tors has not led to a decrease in sales. 
“It doesn’t really slow down until July 
and August,” said Joelle Jaskiel of Swallow-
tail Farm. 
The farmers market sells organic veg-
etables such as kale and squash, which cost less than their store-bought counterparts.
Audrey McNamara, an 18-year-old UF 
sustainabilities studies freshman, said she tried Swallowtail Farm’s patty-pan squash. 
“It’s the perfect complement for creating 
a buttery dish,” McNamara said.  
The Florida heat poses challenges for 
farmers in the summer. Wisconsin native and Swallowtail farmer Sophie Patterson said she is experiencing her ﬁ  rst summer in 
Florida. 
“I basically came to get away from the 
cold,” Patterson said. 
Compared to Midwest farming, summer 
acts as an off-season for those in Florida.
Ramon Angeles of Angeles Farm said he 
doesn’t experience this off-season as much because his produce is grown year-round in a greenhouse. This helps protect Angeles’ 
produce from extreme heat, animals and insects.
McNamara, a Gainesville native, said she 
enjoys shopping at the farmers market year-round.
“Knowing where your food comes from 
and having a relationship with those grow-ing it is so cool,” she said.  Farmers market has same sales despite fewer students
The project will cost $36,120
Alligator File Photo
A Gainesville resident for almost 60 years, Austin Gregg waits in line to purchase 
a pair of oak leaf lettuces at the Union Street Farmers Market. Gregg said he was glad the farmers market was back at Bo Diddley because he felt the space had more character than Lot 10.Address: 
Bo Diddley Community Plaza
111 E University Ave. 
Gainesville, Florida 32601
Every Wednesday from 
4 p.m. to 7 p.m.
Products:
Fruits
Vegetables
Baked goods
Sweets
SoapsTUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11  10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Eunshil McKenna, a licensed dietician and food and 
nutrition supervisor for Alachua County Public Schools, provides free nutrition advice to parents and families at the Nutrition Education Family Event at the Straughn Center on Saturday.
HEALTH
By Rosanne Ramraj
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 84 people received trivia facts, 
healthy-cooking demonstrations and advice 
from a Gainesville-licensed dietitian Satur-
day.
In Alachua County, more than 28 percent 
of school-age children and more than 56 per-
cent of adults are either overweight or obese, 
according to a report from Healthiest Weight 
Florida.
With America’s obesity rates in mind, the Multidisciplinary Academic-Community Obesity Disparities Research Partnership hosted the event at the Straughn IFAS Exten-
sion Professional Development Center. 
“This is the first seminar planned by the 
MACOD-R seminars committee that was 
targeting families and children in the com-
munity,” said Manal Alabduljabbar, the co-
ordinating co-chair for the committee and a doctoral student at UF’s College of Public Health and Health Professions.
She said obesity rates are higher in south-
ern states, causing chronic health issues such as diabetes and heart disease. This risk is even higher within ethnic minority and ru-ral communities.
“Obesity contributes to chronic health 
conditions that add a costly burden on our health care system,” Alabduljabbar said.
Fourth-grader Jesse Thacker attended the 
event and said, along with learning how to cook healthy foods, he will eat more vegeta-bles and fruits after attending the event. 
“I want to eat in smaller portions now, 
and I will only eat sugar once in awhile,” 
he said.Organization combats obesity within Alachua County
Health tips from Alabduljabbar: 
• Practice healthy eating and 
regular exercise
• Occasionally eating fast food is 
OK if it does not become a habit
• Use activities to teach children 
about nutrition12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Presence of Nile crocodile 
in Florida raises ecological concerns
Florida’s subtropical climate, 
coupled with its proclivity for sunshine, has traditionally been an attraction for snowbirds. Now 
the Nile crocodile is staking its 
claim to call Florida home. 
Researchers at UF have con-
ﬁ  rmed the presence of the Nile 
crocodile, Crocodylus niloticus, 
in southern Florida between 2000 
and 2014.
During the 14-year period, two 
nonnative crocodile species were 
found to be Nile crocodiles based 
on DNA-sequence data, said Da-
vid Blackburn, the associate cura-
tor of amphibians and reptiles at the Florida Museum of Natural History.
The news comes in the midst 
of an ecology that has been strug-gling to maintain its endemism with the presence of invasive spe-cies, like the Nile monitor and Burmese python. 
“This is another really large 
apex predator introduced into the Florida ecosystem,” said Kenneth Krysko, the herpetology collection manager at the Florida Museum. 
Nile crocodiles can survive in 
Florida for a number of years, said Krysko, who co-authored the study published  April 30, 2016 in the Journal Herpetological Con-servation and Biology, and they are now known to grow quickly in the Florida wilderness. 
“We don’t see every crocodil-
ian,” he said. “There are thou-sands of them out there. Who are we to say we’ve found them all?” 
Between 2010 and 2014, Nile 
crocodiles in Africa were respon-
sible for at least 480 attacks on 
people and 123 fatalities. 
“In its native range in Africa, 
people and Nile crocodiles do 
come into conﬂ  ict,” Blackburn 
said. “And (Nile) crocodiles, 
just like American alligators, can 
maim and kill humans.”  
Additionally, the Nile croco-
dile is responsible for “signiﬁ  cant 
loss of cattle and other domestic 
farm animals” in its range, posing 
a risk to the agricultural industry of Florida, according to the study published by Krysko and his 
team.
– Justin FordCitizen scientists can help 
protect the fox squirrel
The general public can now 
help scientists protect the Florida fox squirrel and other endan-gered species by submitting data on those species, according to a study done by UF’s Institute of Food and Agriculture Science.
Courtney Tye, a master’s stu-
dent in the UF/IFAS Wildlife Ecology and Conservation depart-ment, worked with the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission and developed an application for the general public and professionals to submit pic-tures and locations of the Florida fox squirrel. Tye contributed to management plans to beneﬁ  t the species and later passed away in 2014, according to Alligator ar-chives.
Of the 10 subspecies of fox 
squirrel, the Sherman Fox Squir-rel is the most common near Gainesville, said Wesley Boone, a doctoral student in UF’s Wildlife Ecology and Conservation depart-ment.
“Citizen scientists can tag 
where they saw the fox squirrel and add a photo,” he said. “Not a single person has wrongly iden-tiﬁ  ed a fox squirrel yet, which is amazing.”
While the use of camera traps 
has become one of the best meth-ods to track the fox squirrel, citi-zen scientists now help research-ers by reaching more broad areas of Florida, collecting more data than researchers could do alone, Boone said. 
Anyone can become a citizen 
scientist regardless of his or her background by submitting the location and pictures of the fox squirrel species to the Fox Squir-rel Registry on the FWC website at public.myfwc.com/hsc/foxs-
quirrel/GetLatLong.aspx.
– Guerbrea FortReporting concussion can 
lead to faster recovery for athletes
When Jackson McCall thought 
he sustained a concussion, he kept quiet. 
“I feel like I’ve heard guys talk 
about playing through this before, 
and I don’t want to sit out the last 
game,” McCall remembers telling himself. 
Now a sophomore accounting 
major at UF, McCall, 19, was a 
middle linebacker and fullback for 
Douglas Freeman High School in Virginia at the time. With his team in the middle of a playoff run and 
a game against rival Atlee High 
School up next, he didn’t want to 
risk reporting something that may be a problem. 
Even if the injury had happened 
at the beginning of the season, 
McCall said his thought process 
would’ve been the same. 
However, a recent study from 
the UF Sports Concussion Center may change how McCall and other athletes view reporting concus-sions. That’s the goal, according to the paper’s lead author Breton Asken, a graduate student of UF’s Clinical and Health Psychology doctoral program.
The study compared how long 
it took athletes to get back on the ﬁ  eld if they reported concussions right away as opposed to waiting until the end of the game or the next day. The results supported what intuition would suggest: Players who waited to report their symptoms took an average of about ﬁ  ve days longer to recover than athletes who reported their symp-toms right away. 
Asken believes having evidence 
that shows early reporting leads to 
quicker recovery times will moti-
vate athletes to report concussions more often. 
“I think that’s a language that 
they understand a little bit better, 
and that they can relate to a little bit 
more,” Asken said. 
McCall agrees, adding the study 
could also inﬂ  uence coaches.
He said he had never heard of 
those beneﬁ  ts in high school and teaching athletes of all ages the im-portance of early reporting would encourage them to get checked out 
after an injury.
“I think that would be big for 
players and coaches to under-
stand,” McCall said.
– Ethan BauerStudy shows highway noise interferes with bird communication
UF student researchers have 
discovered a correlation between highway noise and bird commu-nications. 
UF/IFAS wildlife ecology and 
conservation student Aaron Grade studied northern cardinals in mul-tiple intact forests with highways alongside them. Most of the in-vestigation occurred near Inter-state 75 and U.S. Highway 441. 
Grade and his research assis-
tants, Maria Ospina and Jason Lacson, played cardinal territo-rial calls to attract the birds, then played tufted titmouse alarm calls to see if the cardinals responded to them.
“The main function of the 
alarm calls is to warn (birds) about predators,” Grade said. 
The study showed two promi-
nent results: Birds residing nearer to highways were not as respon-sive to alarm calls as those who lived farther away, and birds were choosing to move away from noisier areas. 
Although the research did not 
focus on the consequences of highway noise on birds, Grade said the costs are comprehend-ible. 
“If they can’t hear the warning 
calls, they could be depredated or be more scared of being eaten,” he said. “They would change their behaviors.”
Grade said he hopes for further 
investigations.
“I’m hoping that other people 
do similar studies in other areas so that we can conﬁ  rm that this is happening with other species as 
well,” he said.
– Kathleen HyattRemoving beach debris 
helps turtles nest
A recent study conducted by 
UF researchers has shown remov-ing beach debris helps sea turtles nest as the nesting season begins.
The study dealt speciﬁ  cally 
with loggerhead turtles, which are listed as a threatened species. The goal in population recovery of listed species is to increase population abundance, Margaret Lamont, a biologist in the Wet-land and Aquatic Research Cen-ter, wrote in an email.
“For loggerheads, reducing 
mortality means reducing impacts to turtles from several activities such as commercial ﬁ  shing and vessel strikes,” Lamont wrote. “Increasing the birth rate is ac-complished in several different ways including protecting adults so they can reproduce, protect-ing nests once they’re laid on the beach, and ensuring habitat is available on which turtles can de-posit their eggs.” 
Lamont said the researchers 
hypothesized beach debris limited the space available for turtles to lay their eggs, resulting in fewer nests.
In January 2013, the research-
ers removed the debris and ob-served how many times turtles crawled on the beach without laying eggs, as well as how many nests the turtles formed before and after debris removal, she said.
“The number of nests in-
creased 200 percent, and the number of false crawls increased 55 percent in the experimental section,” Lamont said.
– Rosanne Ramraj
TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
BALTIMORE (AP) — Prosecutors failed for the second time 
in their bid to hold Baltimore police accountable for the arrest 
and death of Freddie Gray when an ofﬁ  cer was acquitted Mon-
day in the racially charged case that triggered riots a year ago.
A judge cleared Ofﬁ  cer Edward Nero of assault, reckless 
endangerment and misconduct, concluding that Nero played 
little role in Gray’s arrest and wasn’t responsible for the failure 
to buckle the black man into the police van where he suffered 
a broken neck.
Nero, who is white, was the second of six ofﬁ  cers charged 
in the case to stand trial. The manslaughter case against Ofﬁ  cer William Porter ended in a mistrial in December when the jury 
deadlocked. Prosecutors plan to retry him in September.
Nero’s lawyers said he and his wife and family are “elated 
that this nightmare is ﬁ  nally over.”
Prosecutors had no comment; they are under a gag order.Trial No. 3 — that of van driver Caesar Goodson, who pros-
ecutors believe is most culpable in Gray’s death — is set to 
begin in two weeks. He is charged with second-degree murder.
David Weinstein, a Florida attorney and former federal civil 
rights prosecutor who has been following the case, said the 
verdict will probably serve as a “wake-up call” for prosecutors.
“This speaks to the notion a lot of people had when this ﬁ  rst 
happened, which is that it was a rush to judgment,” Weinstein 
said. “The state’s attorney was trying to balance what she had 
with the public outcry and call to action given the climate in 
Baltimore and across the U.S. concerning policing, and I think she was overreaching.”
Gray died a week after suffering a spinal injury in the back 
of the van while he was handcuffed and shackled but not belt-
ed in.
His death set off looting and arson that prompted author-
ities to declare a citywide curfew and call out the National 
Guard to quell unrest in Baltimore for the ﬁ  rst time since the 
riots that erupted in 1968 over the assassination of the Rev. 
Martin Luther King Jr.
Gray’s name became a rallying cry in the growing furor over 
the deaths of black men in clashes with police.
Nero, 30, waived his right to a jury trial, choosing instead 
to let Circuit Judge Barry Williams decide his fate. The assault charge alone carried up to 10 years in prison.
“The state’s theory has been one of recklessness and neg-
ligence,” the judge said in his ruling. “There has been no evi-
dence that the defendant intended for a crime to occur.”
Nero remains on desk duty and still faces a departmental 
investigation that could result in disciplinary action.
Gray’s family settled with the city for $6.4 million in Sep-
tember. An attorney for the family, Billy Murphy, said they respected the verdict, and he commended the judge for resist-
ing “enormous pressure” and showing “tremendous courage in ruling against public opinion.”  Oﬃ   cer cleared in 
Freddie Gray caseALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) — New Mex-
ico on Monday became the ﬁ  rst state to sue 
the federal government and the owners of two mines over the release of three million gallons of toxic wastewater from a closed 
Colorado gold mine, seeking tens of millions 
of dollars for environmental and economic damage caused by the spill.
The federal lawsuit says the environmen-
tal effects of the 2015 spill, in which a bright-yellow plume of arsenic, lead and other heavy metals fouled rivers in three Western states, were far worse than claimed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
New Mexico wants to be paid back for its 
immediate response to the disaster and re-ceive funding for long-term monitoring, lost revenue and a marketing campaign to undo the stigma left behind by the Gold King Mine spill.
“The liability is crystal clear. The facts 
speak for themselves, and EPA for whatever reason is unwilling to resolve this outside of court,” New Mexico Environment Secretary 
Ryan Flynn told The Associated Press.
The lawsuit came days after New Mexico 
Attorney General Hector Balderas ﬁ  red off 
warning letters to the EPA and the state of Colorado over the response to the spill.
“Remediation and compensation dollars 
have been far too minimal for these very spe-cial agricultural and cultural communities who depend on this precious water source 
for irrigation and drinking water,” Balderas 
said. “They must be properly compensated and there must be appropriate independent monitoring to prevent future dangers to pub-lic health and the economy.”The EPA has a practice of not comment-
ing on pending litigation but reiterated Monday that it takes responsibility for the cleanup and has been working to reimburse states and tribes for costs related to monitor-
ing plans.
The agency also is doing its own monitor-
ing of the Animas and San Juan rivers.
An EPA contractor triggered the spill. The 
wastewater made its way into the two rivers, 
setting off a major response by government agencies and private groups.
During the spill, water utilities shut down 
intake valves and farmers stopped drawing 
from the rivers as the yellow plume moved 
downstream.
The EPA said water quality quickly re-
turned to pre-spill levels, but New Mexico ofﬁ  cials and others warn about heavy metals collecting in the sediment and getting stirred up each time rain or snowmelt results in run-off.
Attorneys for New Mexico argue the 
spill was preventable and the EPA had been 
warned about a potential blowout nearly a 
year before the incident.
The agency offered $2 million to states 
and tribes affected by the spill for monitor-ing, but New Mexico ofﬁ  cials say that’s only a fraction of the more than $6 million that would be needed for adequate monitoring in the state.
New Mexico also estimates the spill is 
costing the state $130 million in lost income taxes, fees and revenue. Ofﬁ  cials have point-ed to reduced tourism, ﬁ  shing and land use throughout the region. 
 New Mexico ﬁ  rst to sue EPA, mine owners over toxic spill
SALEM, Ore. (AP) — A massive 
$2.8 billion annual corporate tax hike is likely headed to Oregon vot-ers in November, a move that could create the most aggressive tax cli-
mate for big business of any state in 
the nation.
The ballot proposal comes as 
raising taxes on the wealthy and large corporations is at the forefront of a national debate — especially among Democratic progressives such as Bernie Sanders and much of Oregon’s electorate — about how to 
close the gaping economic dispari-
ties between rich and poor in a post-Great Recession era.
The proposal’s labor-union back-
ers are just one step from getting the measure on the ballot after sub-mitting 130,000 signatures to state elections ofﬁ  cials last week. They say it would tap a tiny portion of 
Oregon businesses while bringing a 
huge boost to cash-strapped public education, health care and senior services.
But a long-awaited state analy-
sis, released Monday, found the proposed tax hike would come with major pitfalls for wages, jobs and consumers’ pocketbooks.
“Oregon would have the worst 
corporate tax climate in the coun-try,” said Nicole Kaeding, an econo-
mist with the Tax Foundation, a 
Washington, District of Columbia, nonproﬁ  t that has closely watched the proposal. “If you think about it on a national level, these would be similar to changes in federal reve-nue by 3 to 4 percent. It’s gigantic.”
Oregon is one of ﬁ  ve states with 
no sales tax. But like many others, it 
taxes corporations based on income.
The ballot proposal would main-
tain the income tax, but for the big-
gest businesses, it would add an additional layer of what’s called a gross receipts tax. That’s a sales tax on steroids, Kaeding said. It taxes sales at each level of production rather than only when, say, con-
sumers buy milk at the grocery.
The measure targets Oregon’s 
biggest corporations — roughly 
1,000 by the state’s estimates, or about 4 percent of businesses. Those with $25 million in Oregon sales would pay a minimum $30,000 tax, plus 2.5 percent on anything above that threshold.
That would bring in an extra $6 
billion in estimated revenue during the 2017-19 budget cycle, which has 
a looming shortfall.
Kaeding said the states actively 
looking into the wealth gap issue 
are mostly targeting rich individu-als, not businesses. Over the years, states have moved away from a gross-receipts structure, not toward it like Oregon, she said.
Five other states have a gross 
receipts tax, but Oregon’s 2.5 per-cent would be the highest (a slightly higher rate on just one industry in Washington state is the only excep-tion).
The state analysis found that if 
the proposal passes, consumer pric-es will rise, population will decline and about 38,000 private-sector 
jobs will be lost over ﬁ  ve years — 
although 18,000 public sector jobs will be added. The state believes re-tailers and utilities would be among the hardest hit, which would have a harsh effect on lower income house-holds. 
 ‘Gigantic’ Oregon corporate tax 
AP Photo
In this Aug. 6, 2015, ﬁ  le 
photo, people kayak in the Animas River near Durango, Colo., in wa-ter colored from a mine waste spill. The federal government and Colo-rado have made little progress in remedy-ing damages from the 2015 release of millions of gallons of wastewa-ter from a southern Colorado mine, New Mexico’s top prosecu-tor charged in a pair of scathing letters sent to ofﬁ  cials on Friday, May 20, 2016.NEWS FROM AROUND THE NATION14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
SOMETHING TO TACO ‘BOUT
In celebration of Gainesville’s $5 T aco Week, a crowd of about 35 people eat at Tijuana Flats around 
noon on Monday. “T acos have been about 25 percent of today’s sales, ” said Ross Chamberlain, a 28-year-old Tijuana Flats worker, although he couldn’t determine how many of those sales were a re-sult of the $5 promotion speciﬁ  cally.
PLANNERS DECIDED TO 
EXPAND THE PARK BY 
10,000 SQUARE FEET.
By Natalie Calvo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Get Air will open its ﬁ  rst Flor-
ida location in Gainesville, and it recently added 10,000 square feet to its original construction plan. 
“A lot of people wanted new 
family entertainment venues, 
especially indoor venues,” said 
Ashton Goodall, the marketing 
director for Get Air. “There’s not that many activities for families to do inside, especially not active 
things to do inside.”
After further market research, 
planners decided to expand the 
original design of 26,000 square feet, said Rick Baer, the president 
of American Commercial Realty.
Goodall said the park will have various types and sizes of tram-
polines for activities such as ulti-mate dodgeball, foam pit diving, slam ball and its signature Ninja Course, which will resemble the “American Ninja Warrior” televi-sion show.
Baer said Get Air will be 
Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst trampoline park. 
Kim Dang, a 19-year-old UF 
athletic training junior, said the park is a welcome addition to the city. 
“I’ve actually been looking for 
places with indoor trampolines in Gainesville because I miss it,” said Dang, who is also a member of the UF club gymnastics team.
As a former Orlando resident, 
Dang would visit Boing, Re-bounderz and other trampoline parks in the area.
There are currently 39 Get Air 
locations in America, Goodall said.  Indoor trampoline 
park to come to GNV
By Kelby Martin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Summer classes have begun, and 
so has the challenge of paying for 
them.
Some students use their Florida 
Bright Futures Scholarships in the 
Fall and Spring. Bright Futures is 
offered to high school students in the state who display high ACT and SAT test scores and work a cer-tain number of community service hours. However, Bright Futures does 
not cover Summer courses, result-
ing in students having to ﬁ  nd other 
avenues to pay for tuition, primarily through part-time jobs. 
“I usually use my Bright Futures 
to cover the costs of my books,” Phoebe Nimocks, a UF biomedical engineering junior, said. “I’m in Cir-
cuits, so you have to get the text-
books, the 150 dollar circuit board and everything else. I do not have the money (for everything).”
Some students tend to favor the convenience of on-campus jobs, such as Jonathan Kigel, a 21-year-
old operations associate at UF’s Rec-
Sports and an applied physiology and kinesiology senior. 
“You can put speciﬁ  c blocks of 
time between two-and-a-half to four hours where you can work in a little bit every day and pick up or drop 
shifts easily,” he said.
Others, like 20-year-old UF crim-
inology and law junior Kenndi Fich-
tel, think getting an on-campus job isn’t very ﬂ  exible.“It’s such a long process of get-
ting hired and in,” Fichtel said. “I 
feel like you have to know some-
body. There’s a lot of students ap-plying for them.”
Sometimes, students work jobs 
outside the common coffee shop or fast-food restaurant. Kigel was once a nighttime security guard for on-
campus housing at UF. 
“Those were interesting,” Kigel 
said, reminiscing about the 10 p.m. 
to 4 a.m. shifts. “All you did was: They assigned you an area, you walked around it and made sure all 
the doors were locked and no suspi-
cious activity was happening.”
Mickey Howard, the associate 
director of new student and family programs in the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce, said there’s many resources on campus for students to ﬁ  nd work in the Summer, such as Field and Fork Pantry.
“I think there’s some pretty 
odd jobs out there,” Howard said. “When I was in college, I counted cans for a summer.” 
 Students pick up jobs over the Summer to pay for tuitionBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   5-31-16-41-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
$325 1 bed in 2/1 with female student. Includes small privacy fenced back yard to room, sliding glass doors, washer/dryer, dish washer, high-speed internet and split electric 352 631 0737     6-30-11-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Walk 1-3 blks from UF.
Avail in Aug:
2bd/2.5 bth $1100.00; 2bd/1bth $1000.00, 
1bd/1bth $650.00-$635.00, studio $500.00.
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com
8-26-16-30-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
6BR 3BA Compound - 2 Houses, huge fenced yard, hot tub, huge warehouse, Walk/Bike to UF and downtown! Pets OK! $3300. 612-229-4138    6-16-16-10-2
BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE  5 bed/ 2 bath, great downtown location.   2 balconies, wood floors,  great character.   320 NW 1st Street.  Call 352-377-3110, or email simp-sonm@ufl.edu.    6-9-16-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
Mobile Home for Sale by Owner in Gainesville; 2 bdrm; 2 bath w/all appliances; (352) 871-1126 and/or 352-246-1906    5-24-16-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10  
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     8-15-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor -
rections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST 
DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one day. No 
refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the 
first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY7 Computers16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     6-7-16-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     6-7-16-5-13
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
5-31-16-7-14
Looking for an office cleaner ; mon5p, tues5p, th12p, fri5p, sat 12p; weekly pay 8.50/hr; lots of driving involved so one must have a car, be able to pass a drug/back -
ground check too; if interested please con-tact me at 3522140868 [I'm also looking for someone to clean empty homes/Apts when people move out     5-24-5-14
Retired person needs student P/T a few hrs per week (8-12) for yard work, house -
keeping, etc. Home close to UF. $9. per hr. Short resume, reply with time/hrs available. ghpolkgator@gmail.com    6-2-7-14
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
ACROSS
1 Shoot for the
stars
6 Group of musical
notes
11 Buddy
14 Get off the couch15 Part of a
mechanic’s bill
16 Green prefix17 *Menace to
society
19 Pod veggie
20 Between Europe
and America, say
21 Permeates
23 Three-letter
sandwich
26 Belmont Stakes
racer
28 J or D, for J.D.
Salinger
29 Musical sense30 w/o delay31 Gator kin32 Apple desktops34 Fodder holder36 Gael, for one39 Wild (over)
40 *Command to an
attack dog
41 Joint for a
dummy
42 The Emerald Isle
43 Rodriguez of the
Yankees
44 Starter for 007’s
car?
45 First name in
perfume
47 __ Bator49 Conclusion50 Actor Lugosi51 Sudden gush52 Dorm VIPs53 Tropical plain55 Spat57 Needle aperture58 Unemotional, and
a hint to thehidden word in
the answers to
starred clues
63 Came in first
64 Pedro’s January65 Brings in at
harvest time
66 Pecan or almond67 Short-straw
picker
68 Win an Olympics
prizeDOWN
1 Opening
2 Tulsa sch. with a
Prayer Tower
3 Highchair user’s
protector
4 Cuba, por
ejemplo
5 Kimono-clad
entertainers
6 Maker of Ultra
acne treatments
7 Sci-fi pilot Solo8 Having lots to
lose
9 Quarterback
Tony
10 Low-humidity
environment
11 *Beverage-
named Denverarena
12 Crush the
midterm
13 Cash advance18 Corp. heads22 Criticizes23 Latte-colored24 Ex-NBA star
Odom
25 *Many a news
story, alas
27 *Add zest to
31 Cousin of org33 Corn oil
alternative
35 Foe in “Batman v
Superman”
37 Hotelier
Helmsley
38 Looks after
40 __ Paulo44 Colony with
tunnels
46 Call off48 “Acoustic Soul”
artist India.__50 Crawfish habitat
51 After-Christmas
specials
53 Attached using
thread
54 Texting while
driving, e.g.
56 Release
59 Dr. of hip-hop60 Smidgen61 Pollution-
monitoring org.
62 ISP alternative
By Melissa Brown and C.C. Burnikel©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/24/1605/24/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, May 24, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17
Experienced stunt base needed to 
work with 95lb high school cheer flyer.
Call 352-226-7040
5-26-16-5-14
Career Opportunities at 
On Top of the World in Ocala, FL
 CADD Technician – seeking an experienced, 
detail oriented CADD Technician with a mini-mum of 5 years of experience and a solid background in producing complete construc-tion documents. Experience in AutoCAD a must, possess working knowledge of build -
ing systems and construction methods, task oriented, have the ability to coordinate with clients and consultants and be proficient at multi-tasking in order to handle several proj-ects at once.
Marketing Systems Coordinator-To pro-
vide support and back up to the Marketing Systems Coordinator with all marketing relat-ed materials online and internally. Reporting directly to the Marketing Manager while maintaining communication with all team members of the Marketing Department and related entities.
Contact On Top of the World Human 
Resource Department to apply or for more information Hiring@OTOWFL.com <mailto:Hiring@OTOWFL.com> or 352-387-7422  OnTopoftheWorld.com    5-31-16-5-14
RELIGIOUS EDUCATION DIRECTOR
Unitarian Universalist Fellowship
PT, Sundays reqd, $16K + benefits
Details at www.uufg.org
dresearch@uufg.org
6-2-16-5-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
MATH TUTOR. Live tutoring online
at calcprof.com.  Former UF professor.
Over 15 years teaching experience.
Eve. & weekend hours avail.
$20-$40/hr. (352) 354-3706
5-31-16-8-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
22 Tickets
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatest
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
The end of the termand the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!English tutor needed ($15 to $20/hour). A local professional is looking for a tutor to help improve conversational English. If inter-ested, please contact bgaolist@gmail.com.    5-31-3-14
FT Ophthalmic Tech (on-the-job training avail.) Exceptional social & verbal com-munication skills. Polite & professional. Dependable, good work ethic, reliable trans-portation. Work Monday thru Friday. Great benefits. melissastandridge@gmail.com6-2-16-4-14
Medical Office Assistant
PT for doctor's office. Experience preferred. 
Email resume to: drpohani@gmail.com    
6-7-16-5-14
Now hiring PT Zip Line Guides
Apply at The Canyons Zip Lines8045 NW Gainesville RdOcala, Fl 34475www.zipthecanyons.com     6-7-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
1. Three players have hit a home 
run for their 3,000th major-league hit. 
Name two of them.
2. In 2015, the Chicago White Sox’s 
Chris Sale became the second pitch-
er to record double-digit strikeouts in eight consecutive games. Who else 
did it? 
3. When was the last time the Cin-
cinnati Bengals won an NFL playoff 
game?
4. In 2015, Steve Alford became the 
fourth UCLA men’s basketball coach to reach the NCAA Tournament’s Sweet 16 in each of his first two sea-sons. Who else did it?
5. Who scored the overtime goal 
in 1975 that gave the New York 
Islanders their first NHL playoff 
series triumph?
6. In 2015, Columbus’ Justin Meram 
logged the fastest goal in Major League Soccer playoff history (9 sec-onds). What had been the fastest?
7. Which two schools have won the 
most NCAA Division I men’s team swimming and diving championships?
Answers
1. Wade Boggs, Derek Jeter and 
Alex Rodriguez.
2. Boston’s Pedro Martinez (1999). 
3. It was the 1990 season.
4. Gene Bartow (1976, ‘77), Gary 
Cunningham (‘78, ‘79) and Steve Lavin (‘97, ‘98).
5. J.P. Parise.6. Columbus’ Adrian Paz scored in 
26 seconds in 1996.
7. Michigan and Texas, with 12 
each.
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 23, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
Headline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida's women's golf team was eliminated from the NCAA T ournament on Sunday, but junior Kelly Grassel  advanced 
to the ﬁ  nals as an individual. Read the story on pg 20.Shore named SEC Pitcher of the Year
Florida ace Logan Shore was named the SEC Pitcher of the Year by the 
league on Monday. This season, Shore posted a 10-0 record with a 2.33 ERA. Shore is the second pitcher in Florida history to win the award. Justin Hoyman also did so in 2004. 
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Kevin O’Sullivan uses the 
phrase “battle-tested” often.
Florida’s ninth-year coach 
mentioned it brieﬂ  y after the 
Gators swiped its ﬁ  nal game 
against LSU to end the regular 
season and secure the No. 4 seed in the Southeastern Conference 
Tournament.
And after using the term a 
few times Monday in advance of UF’s opening game in the 
SEC Tournament on Wednesday night, it seems O’Sullivan has 
adopted it as his team’s slogan.
“I don’t know if it gives us an 
advantage over anybody else,” O’Sullivan said of Florida’s high 
expectations in the postseason. “I just know that our team is 
battled-tested.”
As the No. 4 Gators prepare 
for their showdown in Hoover, Alabama, on Wednesday at 9 p.m. against the winner of to-
night's LSU-Tennessee matchup, it’s easy to see how they’ve been 
tested.
Florida notched a program-
record 44 regular-season wins while playing with the nation's 
second-highest RPI ranking, which considers a team’s wins 
and losses according to strength 
of schedule. UF also ﬁ  nished 19-10 in the SEC, which features six 
of the top-10 teams in the coun-
try.
Because of the rigorous sched-
ule, O’Sullivan said his players are prepared for the postseason.
“There was a tremendous 
amount of pressure on our players to perform,” O’Sullivan said. “We’ve played one of the top three or four most difﬁ  cult 
schedules in the country. I don’t 
think there’s a different mind-set.”
Florida has also had to over-
come a few injuries.Starting pitcher A.J. Puk, 
whom O’Sullivan said will start Wednesday, experienced back spasms in early April that held 
him from a start.
Freshman pitcher and usual 
midweek starter Jackson Kowar suffered a non-baseball relat-
ed medical condition, which D1Baseball.com’s Kendall Rog-
ers reported was a collapsed 
lung, during the Tennessee trip in early May.
And ﬁ  nally, leading hitter 
and starting ﬁ  rst baseman Pe-ter Alonso missed UF’s last ﬁ  ve 
games after he was hit by a pitch 
and fractured a bone in his left hand on May 13.
Although Kowar and Alon-
so won’t be playing this week, O’Sullivan said they’ll both 
join the team in Hoover. Kowar 
still needs to gain some more strength and weight, which 
could take another week or two.
Meanwhile, O’Sullivan said 
the swelling in Alonso’s hand has lessened considerably.
“I would anticipate, unless 
there’s any hang-ups, that he’d be OK for the regional,” he said. 
“But we’ll have to take it one  “Battle-tested” UF prepared for 
SEC Tournament, postseason 
MEN'S TENNIS
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
The Florida men’s tennis 
team exceeded all expectations 
in 2016.
Coming off a disappointing 
campaign last year that saw the Gators tally their lowest win to-tal since the 2000-2001 season, UF bounced back this spring to put up one of its best seasons in recent history.
Florida (21-7, 10-2 Southeast-
ern Conference) dominated the SEC from start to ﬁ  nish, winning 10 of 12 matches and outscoring opponents 61-23 in the regular season to ﬁ  nish second in the SEC standings behind Georgia.
The Gators got the best of UGA in the postseason, how-ever, topping the Bulldogs 4-2 in the conference tournament championship to earn Florida its ﬁ  rst SEC crown since 2011.
“We had our goals set on the 
SEC Title,” senior Gordon Wat-son said in a release following the conference tournament. “We weren’t able to get it done dur-ing the regular season, but that’s just a testament of this team’s resiliency.”
UF made noise in the NCAA 
Championships as well, sweep-ing its ﬁ  rst three matches of the tournament to advance to the Elite 8 for the ﬁ  rst time in 11 years. However, the season end-ed there for the Gators, as they fell to defending national cham-pion Virginia 4-0 in the quarter-ﬁ  nal round on Sunday.
“Our guys had an incredible 
year,” coach Bryan Shelton said in a release. “I felt like we got better throughout the whole sea-son and obviously in the post-season winning the SEC title, as well as making a good run here up to this point.”
Shelton was one of several 
Gators to receive individual ac-colades for their performances this season. The coach was named the SEC Coach of the Year on April 28 after he led his program to its most wins since 2010.
Senior Diego Hidalgo’s 23-6 
singles record this spring earned 
 Gators had success with 
surprising, deep postseason runWOMEN'S TENNIS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
In the days following an abrupt 
NCAA Tournament exit, the success 
that Florida’s women’s tennis team had this season was forgotten.
Anything short of a championship 
was disappointing, but a Round of 16 exit against Stanford, a team that has historically bested Florida, added even more pain to what was once a promising 2016 season. 
"I know how bad our players feel 
when a year like this comes to an end this early in the tournament," Thorn-qvist said in a May 19 release. "In the end, I'm proud of our effort."
Florida’s journey to the tourna-
ment was a success. But in order to get there, the Gators had to go through some rough patches.
One of the biggest stories of the 
season was how Florida responded after losing to both California and Stanford to close out the non-confer-ence schedule.
When it came time for the Califor-
nia road trip, Florida was facing two of the toughest matches on its sched-ule.
Both times, the match was tied 
at 3-3, the only time in the Gators'  Despite disappointing 
ﬁ  nish, Florida’s 2016 season was positive
SEE MEN'S TENNIS,  PAGE 19 SEE WOMEN'S TENNIS,  PAGE 19SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 20Florida baseball opens 
tournament play tonight at 9
Stayin' Alive
Amanda Lorenz watches a pitch cross the plate during UF's 
11-0 win over Alabama State in the ﬁ  rst game of the Gainesville Regional on  Friday. Lorenz and the rest of Florida's offense outscored opponents 24-0 over the weekend as the Gators advanced to Super Regionals. Read the story on page 19.  
Emma Green / Alligator Staffhim the SEC Player of the 
Year, while newcomer Al-fredo Perez garnered SEC Co-Freshman of the Year honors after going a combined 37-7 in singles and doubles contests.
But while the Gators return 
young talent for next season, they will lose some experi-ence.
UF’s top doubles pair, Hi-
dalgo and Watson, is graduat-ing. But the Gators will bring back their other seven mem-bers from this season’s roster, including Perez, junior El-liott Orkin, sophomore Chase Perez-Blanco and freshman McClain Kessler, who are ex-pected to see increased roles next season.
“I feel like we have a solid 
foundation and solid core, and (I’m) looking forward to just continuing it next season with this group,” Shelton said.
Florida also has three in-
coming freshman: Stephen Madonia of Sarasota, David Sarkissov of Moscow and Jo-hannes Ingildsen of Denmark.
Madonia has been ranked 
as high as the No. 3 college prospect by Tennis Recruiting Ratings, Sarkissov is ranked in the top 20 in Russia and In-gildsen is ranked No. 133 in the International Tennis Fed-eration’s world rankings.
“We have signed a tre-
mendous incoming class for 2016,” Shelton said. “Each of these young men are high character individuals that em-body the core values we em-brace.”
While the 2015 season may 
be over for the Florida men’s tennis team as a whole, four Gators will have one more run in the NCAA Singles and Dou-bles Championship, which runs from May 25 to May 30 in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Hidalgo, Perez and Orkin 
will compete in the singles tournament, while Hidalgo and Watson will play together in the doubles tournament for the last time in their collegiate careers.
“Just proud of my se-
niors, who gave us so much throughout the season this year, Diego and Gordon,” Shelton said. “I’m really excit-ed about the individual tour-nament and opportunities that lie ahead there.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgBy Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
The Gators blew through their NCAA Re-
gional for the fourth-consecutive year over the 
weekend, bringing them one step closer to the 
Women’s College World Series. 
One step closer to a three-peat. 
Even Florida's coach is feeling the hype 
after hearing sports anchors heap praise onto 
other softball teams.
“I’m watching TV, and 
I’m paying attention to ESPN 
and all the commentators. And they’re really pumping 
up a lot of programs and their 
success that they’ve had,” UF 
coach Tim Walton said.  “I went, ‘Wait a minute. We’ve 
done all that. We’ve been 
there.’” 
But now entering the Super Regionals, 
Florida’s back-to-back national championships 
won’t help it outfight the other 15 teams com-
peting for college softball’s crown in Oklaho-ma City in June.
But one thing that could help — and has 
helped so far — is the dominance of Florida’s 
pitching staff. Florida's staff is widely believed 
to be the best in the NCAA. 
Its pitchers shut out Alabama State on Fri-
day and blanked UCF both Saturday and Sun-
day. 
“If you don’t give up any runs, you can’t 
ever lose, and that’s been our mantra since 2007,” Walton said. 
In NCAA Regionals — the 64-team stage 
where 16 groups of four teams play a double-
elimination tournament to determine who 
moves on to the Super Regional Round of 16 — the Gators haven’t given up a run in three years. 
That last time was on May 18, 2013, when 
Florida beat USF 11-1. 
That’s 68-straight innings.Senior third baseman Taylore Fuller wasn’t 
surprised. 
“That’s how we play ball,” the senior said. 
“That’s how the Gators play. Those are the standards that we have, and we won’t settle for anything less.”
But it’s not just pitching. Fielding, like Fuller’s in the hot corner, have 
kept opponents from even creating scoring op-
portunities, let alone capitalizing on them. 
Florida hasn’t had an error throughout the 
postseason. You’d have to go back to a regu-
lar-season May 4 matchup against FSU in Tal-lahassee to find the last time UF recorded an 
error. 
The Gators are tied for the nation’s top  
fielding percentage with the team it beat in 
last year’s championship, the Michigan Wol-
verines. 
If Florida can keep a pulse offensively, it’s 
pitching and defense can get it past a three-
game series with Georgia in this weekend’s Su-per Regional. 
“When you can go out and throw three 
shutouts, play error-free softball and swing the bat very well, you get rewarded with W’s,” Walton said.
mbrannon@alligator.org
@mattb_727 TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
regular season where the dual match 
would come down to the final singles match.
The Gators just couldn’t get it 
done. 
They lost both times 4-3 to cap off 
their West Coast visit.After that came the success.Florida dominated in Southeastern 
Conference play, going a perfect 13-0 to win the SEC regular season title.
Though it was a team effort, UF's 
success was largely due to strong play on courts four, five and six.
On those courts, Florida went  
37-2 in SEC singles play.
Another big story coming into this 
season was how the newest addition to the team, Anna Danilina, would fare against collegiate tennis' best.
Against most, she shined, as she 
was normally the first one off the court with a victory.
Against others, she struggled. Facing California, Danilina suf-
fered her worst defeat of the Spring season, falling 6-1, 6-1 against Karla Popovic.
In most matches, though, she has been nearly unstoppable. 
Brianna Morgan’s collegiate ca-
reer came to a close after the Round of 16, but it didn’t stop her from creat-ing some of the season’s most defin-ing moments.
Her play in SEC matches repre-
sented the fight this team had shown all year.
Against Kentucky, Morgan was 
the last player on the court after drop-ping her first set. She easily took the second set to force a third.
The game was already won by 
Florida, but the two players would continue to duke it out until there was a clear winner.
Morgan went down 5-1 in the 
third set, but worked her way back to tie the score at 6-6. A lengthy tie-breaker ensued, and her hard work ultimately paid off. 
She took the match with a 7-6 
final-set win.
While the season didn’t end the 
way the Gators might have hoped, seven players from this season will return next year, meaning this Gator squad will have another crack at re-demption.
This also gives players like Dani-
lina, Spencer Liang and Peggy Porter a chance to fill the hole in the lineup left by Morgan. 
Before the Gators can worry about 
that, though, they still have one more tournament left to play.
The NCAA Individual Champion-
ships start May 25 in Tulsa, Oklaho-ma. In it, the top-64 women's college tennis players will compete in hopes of becoming an NCAA champion.
In last year’s bout, then-freshman 
Josie Kuhlman reached the semifinals in singles, and Brooke Austin and Kourtney Keegan reached the semifi-
nals in doubles.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgWOMENS TENNIS,  from 
pg18UF went 13-0 in SEC play en route to the regular season title
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Anna Danilina returns a ball during Florida's 6-1 win over USF on Jan. 27 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
MEN'S TENNIS,  from 
pg18UF will 
lose two 
seniors
Walton
SOFTBALL
UF uses dominant pitching to sweep Regionals20   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 24, 2016
Michael Wade / Courtesy to the Alligator
Karolina Vlckova watches her drive during the 2016 SEC Championship. UF ﬁ  nished in second 
place at the conference tournament, which was held April 15-17 in Birmingham, Alabama.
day at a time.”
Without Alonso, Florida’s of-fense will need contributions from 
everyone, especially middle-of-
the-order hitters like JJ Schwarz 
and Buddy Reed, who’ve had down years at the plate.But as O’Sullivan told his team 
Monday morning, nothing prior to 
Wednesday — not the 44 wins or 
the personal accolades — matters anymore.“All those things are great, but 
whether you’ve had a great year 
or a year you wish you had back, 
it really doesn’t matter,” he said. “All the stats are out the window and it’s about team baseball mov-ing forward.”
 
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg18O'Sullivan: 'All the stats are out the window and it's about team baseball 'By Alfredo Morales
Sports Writer
The Gators played their last round of 
team golf of the season on Sunday.
UF missed the top-15 cut and failed 
to advance to the ﬁ  nal round of the 
NCAA National Tournament, which 
Florida has not won since 1986.
“Everyone is obviously disappoint-
ed, as this is not how we envisioned the 
season ending,” UF coach Emily Glaser said in a release. 
“Our games were just not sharp 
enough, and we didn’t adjust very well to this golf course and the conditions here in Oregon.”
Florida ﬁ  nished in 17th place at 22 
over par.
However, Florida was represented in 
the fourth round by junior Kelly Grassel, who qualiﬁ  ed as an individual.
Grassel has averaged 73.19 strokes 
per round this season, which is good for fourth best in Florida’s arsenal. 
At the tournament, Grassel led the 
Gators in their last two rounds by shoot-ing even-par 72s both days.
In Round 3, the Michigan State trans-
fer matched three bogeys with three birdies across the 18.
The consecutive even rounds led to 
a 2 over par tournament ﬁ  nish and a tie for 27th place.
“I am happy for Kelly and the oppor-
tunity she has (Monday)," Glaser said.          She deserves it, and she came to play this week.” 
On Monday, Grassel ﬁ  nished the 
tournament at 1 over par in a tie for 20th place after shooting 1 under in her ﬁ  nal round. 
The rest of the lineup was unable to 
match her effort, however.
Sophomore Taylor Tomlinson ﬁ  n-
ished the tournament at 6 over par, end-ing in a tie for 70th place. 
She started on the back nine with 
two bogeys. Two more on the front nine led to a 4-over-par round, her worst per-formance at the tournament.
Junior Maria Torres claimed a tie for 
76th place with a tournament ﬁ  nish of 7 over par.
Torres matched her second-day score 
of 3 over par with two birdies, three bo-geys and a double bogey.
Karolina Vlckova also matched her 
Round 2 score with a 1-over-par 73 for a 9-over-par tournament ﬁ  nish.
The junior was marred by a 7-over-
par ﬁ  rst round that hindered her climb up the leaderboard.
However, Vlckova managed to bring 
herself back into the top 100 with a share of 90th place.
That was not the case for Samantha 
Wagner, however.
Wagner ﬁ  nished the ﬁ  nal round of 
her freshman season at 5 over par. 
Three bogeys and a double bogey 
caused Wagner to fall ﬁ  ve spots to a tie for 106th place.
“There are so many positives from 
this year, all of which are a little bitter-
sweet at the moment," Glaser said. 
"In time, we will be able to reﬂ  ect on 
how far we’ve come and how much we 
accomplished this year.”
@amorales_95
 amorales@alligator.org  UF women’s golf fails to advance to ﬁ  nal round of NCAA Tourney