We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 123 TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016
Fear of defeat fueling 
Gators in postseason
UF plays George Washington 
in the NIT on Wednesday, pg. 13
Advocacy group aims to double undocumented 
student scholarships
All the donations go to the scholarship, pg. 3
Voting opens for Library West competition
It’s a sustainability competition, pg. 5Upcoming exhibit to combineliterary and visual artwork
The exhibit will feature regional and 
national art, pg. 8
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
THE RIGHT TOOL FOR THE JOB
Matt Casey, a 26-year-old ﬁ  rst-year UF law student, inﬂ  ates his bike’s tires with a hand pump instead of using the bike repair station’s 
built-in pump by Library West on Monday. Casey said the repair station’s pump wasn’t working because it seemed to be letting out air.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Authorities fatally shot a local 
high school sophomore after a stand-
off at Majestic Oaks Apartments on Sunday night.At about 10 p.m., 16-year-old 
Robert Dentmond called 911 and said he planned to shoot himself with an assault riﬂ  e, said Lt. Brandon Kutner, an Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokesman. Dentmond then hung up 
the phone, Kutner said.When deputies arrived at the 
apartment complex, located at 5800 SW 20th Ave., Dentmond stood in 
the middle of its parking lot, holding what appeared to be an AR-15 riﬂ  e, Kutner said. It was later discovered the gun was a replica.
After he ignored commands to 
drop his riﬂ  e and walk away, nine deputies and ofﬁ  cers ﬁ  red at him from about 100 feet away, Kutner said.
Dentmond is currently listed as a 
student at Gainesville High School, Gainesville Police Department spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
Authorities said the gun is a rep-
lica, but further information is un-
available due to an active Florida 
Department of Law Enforcement in-vestigation.
“I don’t know if it was airsoft, BB 
gun, water gun… paintball gun — I have no idea,” Kutner said.
Authorities fatally shoot teenager armed with replica gun
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Future UF engineering students can intern 
in Sarasota, Florida, through the expansion of an engineering program.
UF President Kent Fuchs announced at a 
press conference Monday morning that UF’s 
College of Engineering’s Florida Engineering 
Experiment Station will open its ﬁ  rst physical extension, called the Innovation Station, in Sarasota County. Through the extension, stu-dents will work with professionals and com-panies in Sarasota, as they do in Gainesville.
The station will provide scholarships for 
UF students to intern in Sarasota, said Erik Sander, the executive director of the Florida 
Engineering Experiment Station. While the 
station launched Monday, an ofﬁ  ce space and a permanent director haven’t been chosen.
The station will be held in a 1,000- to 
1,500-square-foot ofﬁ  ce space, and Sander will serve as the interim director. The project costs about $3 million, he said.
A 5-year, $980,000 grant is being provided 
from the Charles and Margery Barancik Foun-dation, a philanthropic organization in Sara-sota, and the Gulf Coast Community Founda-
tion is providing a  one year, $63,000 grant. 
Both UF and the Sarasota County government are providing $1 million each.UF to open engineering program in SarasotaLOCAL
SEE PROGRAM,  PAGE 4SEE GUN,  PAGE 4He was 16 years old“I don’t know if it was airsoft, 
BB gun, water gun… paintball 
gun — I have no idea.”
Lt. Brandon Kutner
ASO spokesman
By Janiece Sebris
Alligator Contributing Writer
A women’s empowerment and support 
group will hold its ﬁ  rst gathering today.
The free group will meet Tuesdays and 
Thursdays from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. at Dreyer’s 
DKI, located at 7325 NW 13th Blvd.
Nancy Bocalan, the event’s curator, part-
nered with Kingdom Ministries Embassy, a 
nonproﬁ  t based in Athens, Alabama, to cre-
ate the group.
The embassy is not a church or religion; 
its purpose is to empower people to become leaders in their communities, said Roderick 
Howell, the savant at KME.
Howell said he met Bocalan after she be-
gan classes at KME, where he noticed her 
ability to help women identify and pursue 
their gifts.
“The women who go will not only be en-
lightened, but will also be inspired,” he said.
The group, Bocalan said, is structured 
around a dialogue that allows guests to speak freely about themselves.
Bocalan said she will start the discussion 
by sharing her experience of moving to the 
U.S. from the Philippines. She will also draw 
from leadership books and Bible passages.
Participants do not need to be religious 
to beneﬁ  t from the support group, she said.
Bocalan said her personal struggles are 
evidence of the power within women.
“We may have different beliefs,” she 
said, “but we all go through the same trou-
bles in life.”  Women’s 
group brings inspiration to Gainesville Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Curating Autonomy: Experiences 
from Europe
Come join us for a talk about au-tonomous spaces and their impli-cations in contemporary society. 
The talk, given by UF alumnus 
and activist-scholar Tina Steiger, will explore philosophical notions of autonomy and their manifes-tation in space. A depiction of squats, squatted social centers and festivals as they exist in Spain, Denmark and Germany will be followed by a music show of lo-
cal artists. The local folk-acoustic 
band Michael Claytor and Friends will perform before the psyche-delic dance duo TIME at the Civic Media Center located at 433 S. Main St. The event, which is free and open to the public, will start today at 6 p.m.
‘The Map Thief’ author comes to 
UFMichael Blanding will discuss his book, “The Map Thief: The Gripping Story of an Esteemed Rare-Map Dealer Who Made Millions Stealing Priceless Maps” today at 3 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. Maps have 
long exerted a special fascination 
on viewers. For those who collect them, however, the map trade can be a cutthroat business, inhabited by quirky and, in some cases, dis-reputable characters in search of a finite number of extremely rare objects. E. Forbes Smiley III, an esteemed and respectable anti-
quarian map dealer, spent years 
doubling as a map thief until he was finally arrested while deli-cately tearing maps out of books in the Yale University Library in 2005. He would later confess to the theft of 97 maps valued at 
over $3 million total and serve 42 
months in prison for his crimes.
Toastmasters meet Tuesdays
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, located at 970 Natural Area Dr., east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art. 
Everyone is welcome to attend 
and learn about Toastmasters. For details about Talking Gators, go to talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page. The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a sup-portive and positive learning ex-perience in which members are 
empowered to develop commu-
nication and leadership skills, re-sulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth.
‘Concussion’
In collaboration with GatorNights, Athlete Brain brings “Concussion,” starring Will 
Smith, to UF. Presented during 
Traumatic Brain Injury Awareness Month and in extension of Brain Awareness Week, the night will kick off with free pizza and prizes at 7 p.m Friday in the Reitz Union Auditorium. An expert Q&A panel featuring UF leaders in concus-sion health care and research will 
follow at 7:30 p.m. Arrive early — 
seats are limited!
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Kickin’ It Country-themed event Friday from 8:00 p.m. until 1:00 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature a mechanical bull, old-time photos and live entertainment 
from the band Wax Wings. The 
event will also feature two show-ings of the movie “Concussion” at 8:00 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Free bowling and pool tables will also be a part of the GatorNights event. The night will end with free Country Breakfast during 
Midnight Munchies. This event 
is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 123
HIGH  73° LOW  46°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
ALL DONATIONS GO TO 
THE SCHOLARSHIP .
By Rachel Surette
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Chispas is trying to raise about 
$1,500 for Florida’s undocumented 
students this week.
The immigrant advocacy or-
ganization, which is Spanish for “sparks,” is hoping to double the $800 raised last year for its Out of the 
Shadows scholarship. Money will be 
raised through its annual Chispas Week.
“We’re hoping to get the word 
out and let people know what we’ve 
been doing this year and this semes-
ter,” said Michael Reyes, the public relations director for Chispas.
Students give donations dur-
ing the five events planned for the week, he said. These go straight to the scholarship.
“Being a student is hard in itself, 
so add the undocumented status to 
that, and it makes it a lot harder,” 
he said.
The week will end with an art 
auction, which is the group’s biggest 
fundraiser of the year, Reyes said. 
About 80 people are expected to at-tend.
“Because we got the word out so 
much this year, I’m hoping it’s going 
to double,” he said.
While Chispas usually holds 
a movie night and art auction, 
other events change, he said. 
This year, the group is holding a                          #SwipeLeftOnWendys event.
Jacqueline Chavez, a UF politi-
cal science and international studies sophomore, said she heard about the 
event from friends.
Chavez said her favorite event is 
the talent show, but she hopes to at-tend the other events as well.
“I think Chispas is such a great 
organization, and they really show how students care about their com-munity,” she said.Advocacy group aims to double undocumented student scholarship
TODAY:
“Chispas Got Talent”
• 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at La Casita
WEDNESDAY: 
“Taste the Freedom”
• 4 p.m. at T aste Pho and Noodle House
THURSDAY:
“#SwipeLeftOnWendys”
• 11 a.m. on Turlington Plaza
FRIDAY:
“Out of the Shadows Art Auction”
• 6 p.m. to 11 p.m. at Market Street Pub and Cabaret, downtown Gainesville
Jessica Rodriguez / Alligator
Claudio Ortiz, a 20-year-old UF political science student, watches the documentary “Harvest of Em-pire” in La Casita during the kick-off event for Chispas Week on Monday evening. UF Chispas is trying to raise about $1,500 for the Out of the Shadows scholarship for Florida’s undocumented students.
Emma Green/Alligator Staff
FL YING ON FLAVET
Bianca Bialk, a 21-year-old UF public relations junior, whizzes over her base’s shoulder on Flavet Field on Monday. Bialk and Eddie Al-exander, a 21-year-old UF mechanical engineering junior, practice cheerleading stunts recreationally.
By Rick Garcia
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF club is teaching students 
about creating systems with arti-
ficial intelligence.
Nicholas Kroeger, a UF com-
puter science sophomore, and John Henning, a UF computer sci-ence and mathematics junior, re-
cently established an artificial in-
telligence club after realizing UF doesn’t offer courses on AI for un-dergraduate students. The club, which will meet Wednesdays at 
6:30 p.m., teaches students how 
to build computers and software capable of intelligent behavior.
“There’s no undergraduate 
classes that I saw that I could take for AI and there’s no AI un-dergraduate major, which I think is really important,” Kroeger, 19, said. “I’d like to create those later 
on in life if I choose to pursue a 
Ph.D.”
Bernard Marger, a UF com-
puter engineering senior, said UF 
used to have an undergraduate 
artificial intelligence curriculum, but it discontinued when the pro-fessor retired.
In past years, Douglas Dankel 
II, a retired UF assistant profes-
sor, taught courses on artificial 
intelligence, artificial intelligence for computer games and knowl-edge-based systems.
Kroeger said he reached out 
to Marger, 21, to establish the AI Club after attending an Asso-ciation for Computing Machinery meeting, of which Marger is pres-
ident. They established the club 
as a sub-organization of ACM.
“On campus, (ACM) serves as 
the predominant pre-professional 
organization for computer scien-
tists and programming enthusi-asts,” Marger said. “The Artificial Intelligence Club serves as a con-nection between the ACM general 
body and that technical concept 
area.”
Marger said he hopes the club 
teaches students skills they can 
apply to future careers and in-
ternships. During the first two meetings, the club taught about 15 members about artificial neu-ral networks, a series of models 
that simulate brain functions and are the building blocks of AI.
While Henning said the group 
is only focusing on teaching stu-dents about AI for the moment, 
they might change their goals in the future. They currently aren’t planning on trying to add AI classes to UF’s curriculum.
“As the world keeps going, AI 
is becoming more prevalent,” the 20-year-old said.
Artificial intelligence club to begin
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE 
COURSES UF HAS OFFERED:
• CAP 5635 — Artificial 
Intelligence Concepts
• CAP 4621 — Artificial Intelligence
• CAP 4053 — Artificial Intelligence for Computer Games
• CAP 4680/6685 — Knowledge Based Systems/Expert SystemsIt will meet W ednesdays4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016
Sander said the station will part-
ner with academic institutions, in-
cluding colleges and K-12 schools, to teach students about engineering.
“The concept and the idea is to 
introduce students to engineering and get them excited about careers in engineering,” he said.
He said the station is currently 
partnering with the State College of Florida and Sarasota County Public Schools. The station is planning to partner with the Ringling College of Art and Design and the New College of Florida to inspire more engineers in the state.
UF has been working with Sara-sota County for about 18 months to open the station. He said Sarasota 
County was chosen to host the sta-
tion because of its diverse commu-nity and large number of business leaders.
“At the end of the day, this project 
and this initiative is about positively impacting the innovation economy in this region,” he said.Jason Cochran, a UF computer 
science sophomore, said programs 
like the Innovation Station are need-
ed for computer science and engi-neering students.
He said the station will help en-
trepreneurs focus on solving com-plex problems. He hopes the station allows for new ideas and inventions, instead of more apps.“People mistake creation for in-
novation,” the 20-year-old said. “I 
don’t think that the problem is that 
we don’t necessarily have enough STEM majors; it’s that they’re not solving the right problems.”
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org
PROGRAM,  from pg 1UF has worked with Sarasota County for 18 months to open the program
ACSO and GPD will hold a community meet-
ing at 6 p.m. today at the Powerhouse Family Worship Center, located at 7600 SW 24th Ave., according to a press release.
Donquavius Harris, 16, recalls the moments 
leading up to Dentmond’s death.
“I’m done with life,” Dentmond wrote in a 
Facebook message to Harris.
Harris pleaded with Dentmond to reconsid-
er, but his decision was seemingly made.
“Times up I just seen her snapchat story I’m 
done if you need me I’ll be at North Florida,” Dentmond wrote in a message about 10 min-utes before he called 911.
In an amateur video recorded from an apart-
ment balcony, deputies are heard instructing Dentmond to drop his weapon and walk to-ward them.
At first, he listened.The video shows Dentmond standing rela-
tively still for about six minutes as authorities demand he walk away from the gun.
Despite orders from law enforcement, four 
of whom were trained in crisis intervention, Dentmond is later seen picking up the gun and stepping backward.
As he approached one of the apartments, 
police promised they would shoot if he made 
another step. A barrage of bullets then echoed 
through the complex, and Dentmond is seen falling in the video. 
He was later pronounced dead at UF Health 
Shands Hospital, according to a press release.
Authorities who fired their weapons are 
temporarily assigned to non-patrol administra-tive duties until the investigation is complete.
Kutner said lethal force was the only option.
“In that particular situation, non-lethal force 
was not an option,” he said. “It put residents at 
risk and it would put officers at risk as well.”
Kevin Appel Jr., Dentmond’s uncle, said 
he believes authorities could have handled the situation without killing his nephew.
“I mean, there was obviously a better way 
to handle this instead of murdering a 16 year old boy who was obviously begging for some-
one to help him end his life, they gave him ex-
actly what he was going for,” Appel wrote in a Facebook message. 
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgGUN,  from pg 1The teenager was pronounced dead at UF Health Shands HospitalBy Lauren Rowland
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will wear costumes and eat 
hamantaschen, triangle-shaped cookies, for Purim this Wednesday and Thursday.
The Jewish holiday commemorates the 
Jewish people overcoming oppression and 
celebrating Queen Esther’s saving them, said 
UF Hillel’s Rabbi Adam Grossman. Hillel, UF Chabad and the Jewish Student Union are hosting carnivals, themed dinners and gift-givings for the holiday.
UF Chabad, which is spending $9,000 on 
events, will host Purim in the Wild West on Wednesday at 8:30 p.m. The event, which is only open to UF students, costs $10 with 
a Gator 1 Card. Students can ride a mechani-
cal bull.
On Thursday, they are also holding Me-
gillah readings, which come from the Bible’s Book of Esther, on the Plaza of the Americas, Fraternity Row and the law school, he said.
Rabbi Berl Goldman, the executive direc-
tor of UF Chabad, said Purim is an important holiday.
“We look forward to getting together with 
the entire Jewish Gator Nation to celebrate the Purim holiday,” he said.
Grossman said UF Hillel will celebrate Pu-
rim at its Food Truck Shabbat dinner Friday at 7:30 p.m. Hillel will also make peanut butter and jelly sandwiches for Gainesville’s home-less residents March 29.
“Purim is a time to remember the people in 
our communities,” he said. “Within the holi-day we need to remember to celebrate and impact our community.”
Leigh Bouskila, a UF business administra-
tion freshman, said she will wear cat ears to Chabad’s Wild West event.
“It’s cool that we still get to do the holi-
day, even though we don’t live at home,” the 
19-year-old said.
UF to host party for Purim
STUDENTS CAN RENT 
PROFESSIONAL CLOTHING 
FOR THREE DAYS.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Students can borrow bowties, pant-suits 
and suspenders from Peabody Hall Room 202, 
but a whole wardrobe will launch later this year.
The Gator Career Closet is aiming to launch 
during Summer B, Jen Day Shaw, the associate vice president and dean of students, wrote in an email. The closet, started by Student Gov-ernment, will let students rent outfits for three days for interviews or professional events.
Heather Ryan, the director of the Gator Ca-
reer Closet, said the Dean of Students Office is collecting clothes from UF alumni, faculty and students.
“There’s a pretty good selection coming 
through that we have to work with,” Ryan said.
Shaw added that the website for the closet 
should be launching soon.
Ryan, who was nominated for the director 
position by UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines, is working with the Dean of Students Office to launch the closet. She said 
the Dean of Students Office and herself have 
been working with UF housing to place bins during move-out week so students can donate clothes instead of throwing them away.
UF Student Body Treasurer Nicholas Carré 
said a student once dropped off a bag of clothes on his desk. Carré said he’s working on writing 
a contract to ensure the closet launches.
He said having to work with the Dean of 
Students Office’s schedule has been tough. 
Before the closet can officially move into 
Peabody, they need to wait for UF Off Cam-pus Life to move into the Reitz Union.
But he said he hopes to have a solid plan 
for the closet before his term is over.
“It’s been a balance of getting people in-
volved,” he said. “This is just something we 
want to get done.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.orgGator Career Closet opening 
date pushed to Summer B
WHAT’S AVAILABLE NOW:
• Matching pant suits
• Jackets
• Pants
• Business skirts
• Dresses
• Bowties
• Suspenders
• ShoesUPCOMING EVENTS:
TODAY: 
• “Purim Gift-Giving Celebration”
 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the Plaza of the 
Americas
• “Girls Night Out: Pre-Purim Edition”
 7 p.m. at Chabad UF
WEDNESDAY:
• Purim in the Wild West
 8:30 p.m. at UF Chabad
THURSDAY:
• Megillah readings
 The Plaza of the Americas: 11:30 a.m., 12:35 p.m. and 1:40 p.m.; Law school: noon; Fraternity Row: 5 p.m.
• “Purim in Asia”
 5:30 p.m. at Chabad UF
Martin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
Law enforcement officers stand guard outside the entrance of Majestic Oaks Apart-ments early Monday morning. The officers stood outside for hours after GPD officers and Alachua County Sheriff’s deputies fatally shot a 16-year-old Gainesville resident who was carrying a replica rifle on Sunday night.
CAMPUSTUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Andrea Benaim
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can now vote on solar panels, 
covered bicycle parking and other ideas to 
make UF more sustainable.
From now through April 20, students can 
pick one of five ideas for the annual Gators Give Back sustainability competition. This year, the $10,000 grant aims to improve Li-
brary West. The winner will be chosen by 
May 1, and the winning person or group will receive $500 in Pepsi products.
Last year, the focus was the Reitz Union food court, said David Looney, the associ-ate director for the Business Services Divi-sion.
Other ideas for Library West include in-
stalling automatic sinks, adding recycling bins that show students what can be made from materials they’re recycling and having a Green Hour, where escalators and some lights are turned off.
“The ideas differ because of the space 
and the area that we’re talking about, but also because they’re different students with different thoughts and different ideas,” Loo-
ney said.Courtney Chinn, a UF sustainability 
studies senior, came up with the Green 
Hour idea.
The 21-year-old said the library can turn 
off escalators and artificial lights when less people are there. Her classmates said reflec-tive paint added to the roof will decrease the amount of heat absorbed by the build-ing.
“I came up with it because West is no 
longer a 24-hour library and Marston has become a little more popular, so there are certain times that there are very few people 
in there,” she said. Voting open for Library West sustainability competition
LOCAL
By Brittany Spino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Several of Gainesville’s nature parks 
changed operating hours for spring and sum-
mer after the recent time change.
The affected parks are now open from 
7 a.m. to 8 p.m. until November, said Don 
Musen, a habitat naturalist for the City of 
Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Af-fairs Department.
Daylight saving time began March 13 at 2 
a.m, causing Americans, excluding residents of Arizona and Hawaii, to lose an hour of sleep, Musen said.
However, the change also means an extra 
hour of daylight, he said.  
“We have four nature parks affected by the 
daylight savings time change,” he said. “Most of our other parks are open from dawn to dusk, with the exception of Bivens Arm Nature Park.”
All the parks are free to visit, he said, and 
the correct hours are posted at each location.
“If people were to Google the hours of op-
eration, they’d think we close at 6 p.m.,” he 
said. “We are slowly getting our Web people to 
streamline the time change across the parks.”
Michelle Avila, a 21-year-old UF communi-
cation sciences and disorders senior, said she will miss exercising at the parks after gradua-tion.
“I love going running at Cofrin Nature Park, 
because it’s a perfectly sized loop,” she said. “The fact that it’s staying open longer just 
means I have more time to take advantage of 
exercising outside.”
Gainesville Parks
Cofrin Nature Park
4810 NW 8th Ave.
Alfred A. Ring Park
1801 NW 23rd Blvd.
San Felasco Park
6400 NW 43 Way
Boulware Springs Nature Park
3300 SE 15th St.Gainesville 
parks’ operating hours change
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
HAVANA — Laying bare a half-century 
of tensions, President Barack Obama and 
Cuban President Raul Castro prodded each 
other Monday over human rights and the 
longstanding U.S. economic embargo dur-ing an unprecedented joint news confer-ence that stunned Cubans unaccustomed to their leaders being aggressively questioned.
The exchanges underscored deep divi-
sions that still exist between the two coun-tries despite rapidly improved relations in the 15 months since Obama and Castro sur-prised the world with an announcement to 
end their Cold-War-era diplomatic freeze.
Obama, standing in Havana’s Palace of 
the Revolution on the second day of his his-
toric visit to Cuba, repeatedly pushed Cas-
tro to take steps to address his country’s 
human rights record.
“We continue, as President Castro in-
dicated, to have some very serious differ-
ences, including on democracy and human 
rights,” said Obama, who planned to meet with Cuban dissidents Tuesday. 
Still, Obama heralded a “new day” in 
the U.S.-Cuba relationship and said “part 
of normalizing relations means we discuss 
these differences directly.”
Castro was blistering in his criticism of 
the American embargo, which he called “the most important obstacle” to his coun-
try’s economic development. 
He also pressed Obama to return the 
Guantanamo detention center, which is on 
the island of Cuba, to his government.
“There are profound differences be-
tween our countries that will not go away,” Castro said plainly.
White House officials spent weeks push-
ing their Cuban counterparts to agree for 
the leaders to take questions from reporters 
after their private meeting, reaching agree-ment just hours before Obama and Castro appeared before cameras. 
It’s extremely rare for Castro to give a 
press conference, though he has sometimes taken questions from reporters spontane-ously when the mood strikes.
While the issue of political prisoners is hugely important to Cuban Americans and 
the international community, most people 
on the island are more concerned about the shortage of goods and their struggles with local bureaucracy.
Castro appeared agitated at times dur-
ing the questioning, professing to not un-derstand whether inquiries were directed to him.
But when an American reporter asked 
about political prisoners in Cuba, he pushed back aggressively, saying if the journalist could offer names of anyone im-properly imprisoned, “they will be released before tonight ends.”
“What political prisoners? Give me a 
name or names,” Castro said.
Cuba has been criticized for briefly de-
taining demonstrators thousands of times a 
year but has drastically reduced its practice 
of handing down long prison sentences for crimes human rights groups consider to be political. 
Cuba released dozens of prisoners as 
part of its deal to normalize relations with the U.S., and in a recent report, Amnesty International did not name any current prisoners of conscience in Cuba.Obama, Castro lay bare tensions on embargo
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
President Barack Obama walks with Cuban President Raul Castro following their joint news conference at the Palace of 
the Revolution on Monday in Havana, Cuba.
Obama landed in Cuba on MondayIDEAS TO MAKE LIBRARY 
WEST SUSTAINABLE:
• Solar panels
• Covered bicycle parking
• Green Hour, where escalators and some lights are turned off
• Dynamic recycling bins that tell students what can be made from recycled materials
• Automatic sinksThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Myths Un-Mythed: 
electability
We live in a world full of myths. Never mind the tales 
of wizarding, wand-wielding British schoolchildren or the large, bearded serial home invader who de-scends into our chimneys every Christmas Eve, hoarding our good cookies and seducing our chil-
dren with presents crafted through elven labor. Those aren’t myths; they’re objectively true phenomena.
What we’re calling attention to is the tendency in our pub-
lic discourse to accept certain ideas as fundamentally true, de-spite strong evidence to suggest otherwise. This is why we at the Alligator are launching this new editorial segment, “Myths Un-Mythed”: our attempt to rock the boat a little by chal-lenging — or at least attempting to challenge — these loosely wound, superﬁ  cial truths around us. So let’s jump right in: 
Hillary Clinton’s electability, or the notion that “Hillary would 
be more electable in the general election against the Republi-can nominee than would Bernie Sanders.”
Before you even consider our word on the issue, look to 
the numbers. Polling from RealClearPolitics, which averages a wide range of news-poll data, currently puts Bernie ahead of Trump in the general election by 10 points, whereas Clin-ton’s lead on Trump is 6 points, as of early March. The same data also currently puts her at losing to Kasich and just barely 
beating Cruz, whereas Bernie wins by much wider margins 
than does Clinton.
Numbers aside, however, what would a race between the 
two front-runners, Trump and Clinton, look like? Clinton should dominate, right? Well, before you automatically dis-miss Trump, keep in mind the media has been consistently underestimating his chances ever since he announced his candidacy back in June 2015, yet look what he’s done to the country. To continue underestimating Trump’s chances now 
would be disingenuous.  
Moreover, according to Politico, Trump and his son not 
only donated to Clinton when she was senator of New York, 
but donated over $100,000 to the Clinton Foundation. Trump can easily use that against Clinton and dismiss her as bought-out and owned by him, shutting her down the exact way he shut down Rand Paul.
Also consider that we’re talking about Clinton vs. Repub-
licans. They can surely dismiss Sanders as a communist, but 
none of these attacks measure up to the GOP’s resentment 
of Clinton. To our liberal viewers, grab some Krishna Lunch with your Republican friends and ask their opinions on Clin-ton — chances are, they’re not very good. And as some of our Alligator staffers can testify: Go to a Trump or Cruz rally, and you’ll ﬁ  nd more “Hillary for prison” posters than you can count.
Even some Democrats and independents would take issue 
with Clinton in the general election. Say what you will about 
#BernieOrBust and others who refuse to vote for Clinton no 
matter what — we don’t condone this — but it’s sure to hurt Clinton’s chances at winning. 
All the while, Republican voters would consolidate against 
Clinton. Would this be enough to relinquish Clinton from a victory against Trump or whomever the GOP chooses at a contest convention? Maybe, maybe not, but a lot can happen between now and Nov. 8.
Again, our intention with this discussion isn’t to be alarm-
ist, but rather to draw attention to how incorrect it is to as-sume Clinton is the undeniably “electable” Democratic can-didate, especially when Sanders does signiﬁ  cantly better than Clinton against all the proposed Republican candidates. So, the electability myth? Un-mythed.Take your insecurities and Burnham down
I’m in a state of emotional distress. Let’s see 
how this goes.
Bo Burnham did not deserve the audi-
ence he got Friday night.
Audience members uneasily groaned at 
many of Burnham’s envelope-pushing jokes. Burnham had to explicitly tell the audience his song “Straight White Man” was ironic to get the politically correct college crowd to embrace him. A heckler named Barrett makes me wish free speech in newspapers applied to the F-bomb more often.
Burnham ended his show with “Can’t Handle This.” In 
it, he says he’s scared. He fears his audience. He’s torn be-
tween pleasing us — we’ve dedicated our night to seeing 
him — and staying true to himself as an artist.
Stand-up is difﬁ  cult. In stand-up comedy, the audience 
has all the power. Burnham even said, “the audience-per-former relationship is a prison” for him. In exchange for attention and an audience, Burnham has to put his integ-rity on the line and submit to a crowd of hundreds. And he’s been discussing the guilt he feels about his success for years. “Art is Dead,” from his comedy special “Words 
Words Words,” discusses commercialism’s detriment to 
art. “We Think We Know You” from “what.” describes how Burnham is perceived as arrogant for his highbrow, intelligent comedy. And in “Can’t Handle This,” Burnham seeks closure by telling the audience not to pursue a life of performance.
But the audience kind of spat in his face Friday night.Part of the problem is political correctness has gone 
too far, a problem which runs rampant throughout col-
lege campuses — he excluded his song “Kill Yourself” 
on Friday for that reason. But the real problem lay in the audience: the self-absorbed, identity-seeking, emotionally misguided students who need to interrupt a show or lay judgement on a comedian because they’re not willing to give up their spotlight. Oops, I’m getting salty.
And, surely, this disrespect partially comes from the 
stress of college. On a Friday night, many students just want to unwind and not indulge in provoca-tive, introspective humor. Understandable.
In an interview, Burnham mentions stu-
dents who embrace political correctness tend to be “irony-deaf in exchange of not being big-oted” as they’re “coming into their morals,” 
so he’s sympathetic to the culture. But I’m at 
UF to learn. I’m here to push limits and ques-tion norms in the pursuit of comedy — and mechanical engineering or whatever. To me, irony is the root of comedy, and when students 
cower at the mention of suicide or racism without hear-ing what an intelligent, progressive, feminist, professional comedian has to say through irony and subversion, I see so much opportunity wasted.
There’s a fundamental difference between the content 
of a joke and the message a joke conveys. In an effort to be politically correct, folks will disregard a joke with edgy content even if the joke conveys a progressive, posi-tive message. There’s this perception that joking about something devalues it; you can’t joke about rape because it downplays the magnitude of rape, or it turns rape itself into a joke. A well-constructed joke does neither of those things, and joking about something doesn’t make those 
two accusations inherently true. This is why comedy gets 
a bad reputation, and that’s why I want to shed some light on it. Political correctness is a good thing: Y’all just do it wrong.
We can learn so much from Burnham’s work. No other 
artist has had the bravery to step in front of a crowd and tell them he’s terriﬁ  ed. No other artist risks his stage pres-ence to deconstruct his own jokes for an audience. But you have to trust his sense of humor. Respect the position 
he puts himself into in order to make you laugh and think.
Opinion: Get over yourselves, embrace irony and 
laugh, jackasses.
Tune in next week for a less aggressive column. Prob-
ably.
Michael Smith regrets being a UF mechanical engineer-
ing sophomore. His column appears on Tuesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
To many, the thought of 
a school yearbook con-notes images of medio-
cre Photoshop skills, pu-
bescent faces on a blue 
background and sensational-ized editorials about irrelevant 
varsity teams. For me, simply 
looking at one brings up long suppressed anxieties about col-lecting scrawled signatures and maintaining subjective relevancy. Yet re-
gardless of whether those old middle and 
high school yearbooks instill angst or nos-talgia, we can’t deny their ability to reﬂ  ect the past in shocking (and often uncom-
fortable) clarity.
Yearbooks are unlike any other publi-
cation because this is their sole purpose: 
to capture the essence of a particular envi-ronment, time and experience.
This leads us to the unavoidable ques-
tion of “So, where’s the UF yearbook?” Well, you sort of missed the boat on that one. The ﬁ  rst UF yearbook, misleadingly 
titled “The Seminole,” was published in 
1910 and printed annually up until 1973, when ﬁ  nancial issues supposedly inter-fered. Brought back in 1983 under the much more appropriate title, “The Tower” 
(like Century Tower, in case you didn’t 
catch that), the yearbook ﬂ  ourished until ﬁ  nancial issues once again ended its reign in 2008.
I was lucky enough to meet with the 
university archivist, Peggy McBride, and sift through these dusty relics last week, as one of my English seminars was con-ducting research into Floridian and col-
legiate culture in the 1950s. We were 
somehow deemed responsible enough to handle a variety of archival materials from that infamous decade, and needless to 
say, I was in heaven. Despite the variety 
of materials at our disposal, I was drawn to the yearbooks.
The phrase that comes to mind is “Ev-
erything changes; everything stays the 
same.” I laughed in disbelief at the “Beau-
ty” section in the center of the yearbooks, with its full-page photos of blonde debu-tantes and accompanying descriptions of 
their well bred credentials. Immediately after, I gazed in disbelief at a 
photograph of drunken Hawai-ian-shirt-clad upperclassmen 
that looked as if it could have 
been plucked off someone’s In-stagram.
More than anything, I was 
amazed at what a comprehen-sive image the yearbooks gave me. Sure, there were the frater-nity formals and Homecoming 
bonﬁ  res, but also the racial inequality and 
Cold War tensions. I wondered where the 
students peering at me from black and white photographs were today.
As my classmates ﬂ  ipped through 
glossy pages searching for photos of their grandparents, I was struck by the fact that ﬁ  ctional grandchildren of my own wouldn’t be able to do the same.
Bringing it back to the 21st century, 
I truly believe the UF yearbook should be revived from its extinction. For one, there’s no other publication solely dedi-cated to conserving the present student 
culture in a way that’s accessible to fu-
ture generations. Sure, there’s the Alliga-tor, but that’s more geared towards dis-seminating information than preserving it. Our personal collegiate souvenirs may 
remind us of our four years in Gainesville, 
but that neglects the more holistic student experience. Our undergraduate journeys are immensely personal in nature, yet we 
often underplay the inﬂ  uence UF as an in-
stitution has on them.
Another potential hurdle is the sheer 
size of the UF Student Body, as any at-tempt to document the entire student ex-
perience is sure to exclude someone. But 
I suppose an incomplete attempt is better than none at all.
I can only hope that at some point in 
the near future the yearbook will expe-rience its third revival. Maybe we could name it “The Potato.” But in the mean-time, I highly recommend you visit the university archives on UF’s digital collec-
tions website and scroll through some of 
the old yearbooks. Maybe then you’ll be convinced.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English ju-
nior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.Why don’t we have a UF yearbook?Column
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgThe Obama administra-tion’s foreign policy struggle with the Middle 
East — concerning a 
chaotic Libya, Saudi air-
strikes and the blowback of in-cessant drone strikes (not you, 
Iran nuclear deal; keep on keep-
ing on) — took a back seat this week to the so-far successful and front-page detente with Castro. So much so, in fact, the president’s daughters will be 
spending their Spring Break in Cuba.
It has been nine decades since President 
Calvin Coolidge, the last American presi-
dent to visit the Caribbean nation, arrived to 
address the sixth Pan-American Conference. 
Cuba was a vastly different country then, its populace still beholden to the great inﬂ  u-ence of self-interested American diplomacy. 
Now, almost a century later, the Castro 
regime has begun to open Cuban borders to American inﬂ  uence once again — certainly for the better, but potentially also for the worse.
Coinciding with President Obama’s ar-
rival to the island were Havana protesters who sought to bring to light the decades of human rights abuses unabashedly commit-ted by Castro regimes. Fifty of the dissidents 
were arrested just hours before the presi-
dent landed. This is a plight Obama should not ignore during his visit.
In meeting with Castro, it’s a progressive 
president’s duty to recognize those protest-ing for the liberty of political prisoners and the rights of free speech and freedom of the press without the threat of totalitarian pen-alty. Obama must make sure his mission to 
ease tensions with Cuba, especially now in 
meeting with the despotic Castro regime, does not come across as insinuating U.S. complacency with the human rights abuses 
of the Cuban government. Here is a chance 
to win the trust of a number of Cuban citi-zens by showing interest in their empow-erment — citizens who, for decades, have deeply mistrusted the U.S. government on 
different bases: some forced to, some whole-
heartedly convinced by their state’s propa-ganda and yet others informed on the truly questionable practices of American foreign 
policy in the last several decades.The restoration of diplomatic 
relations between the U.S. and 
Cuba has also opened the island 
to American business. In particu-
lar, U.S. hoteliers are hungrily sizing up Cuba for the opportuni-ties its beachfronts have to offer. 
While economic opportunity un-
doubtedly lies here for the peo-ple of Cuba, this type of venture 
needs to be monitored very closely.
Unfettered access to beachfronts across 
Cuba for U.S. hoteliers would wreak havoc on the pristine ecosystems that serve as a model of conservation for the world. Proj-ects like beach dredging and condominium 
construction would most likely follow and, 
in turn, do unprecedented damage to reefs along the shoreline.
The importance of preserving the Cuban 
wild cannot be understated. While many other Caribbean nations have forsaken their 
ecologies, Cuba’s untouched wildernesses, 
inland and onshore have created an asylum for many rare species of migratory birds, ﬁ  sh and reptiles. 
Furthermore, advances in medicine, 
deeper understandings of marine ecosys-tems and data for climate change are all possibilities Cuba can offer.
While economic growth is undeniably 
important for the poor people of Cuba, their rich and diverse lands should not be subject to destruction all for the next Atlantis hotel.
The U.S. has poisoned a great many of 
its own ecological riches. In the spirit of true progressiveness, here is a chance to make sure a potential new ally does not suffer the same fate.
Justin Ford is a UF journalism junior. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.What Obama's Cuba visit should entailColumn
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.org
“The Castro regime 
has begun to open 
Cuban borders to 
American inluence 
once again.”8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016
By Chelsea Hansen
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences’ Center for Landscape Conservation 
and Ecology will teach faculty and students environmental research at a new summit Wednesday.
The Urban Landscape Summit, held at 
the Straughn UF/IFAS Extension Professional Development Center, will allow faculty and agricultural groups to get together and learn about current research, including water, wild-life and agricultural conservation happening around the state, said Emily Eubanks, an education and media coordinator for the Cen-ter for Landscape Conservation and Ecology and the communications coordinator for the event.
“There is everything from turfgrass to eco-
nomics, to ornamental horticulture and be-havior change,” Eubanks said.
She said the summit took about a year to 
plan and they are hoping to hold one either annually or every two years. About 25 UF graduate and undergraduate students will at-tend. UF students can attend for free, and the event costs $40 for non-UF students.
Graduate students will also have the op-
portunity to participate in a poster presenta-tion where they can share their research.
Eliza Breder, a UF science graduate stu-
dent studying irrigation, wrote in an email 
that she is excited to attend because she will 
get to share her research about water irriga-tion patterns.
“I hope to meet other experts in my ﬁ  eld 
and to gain an understanding of my col-league’s research topics,” the 24-year-old said.  UF to host environmental summit about conservation 
SUMMIT SCHEDULE:
 9:30 a.m.: Presentations from 
representatives of counties across Florida
 11 a.m.: Masters and doctoral students’ poster presentations
 1 p.m.: State specialists’ presentations
 4:30 p.m.: Closing remarks
THE EXHIBIT WILL 
FEATURE REGIONAL 
AND NATIONAL ART.
By Lauren Johnson
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Historic Thomas Center 
will combine two forms of art for 
its ﬁ  rst time at an upcoming ex-
hibit.
“The Stroke of Brilliance: An 
Exhibition of Literary and Visual Art” begins Thursday at 5:30 p.m. 
with “A Night of Brilliance,” a free reception.
The exhibit will feature re-
gional and national art to empha-size the beauty of poetry and the natural world, said Russell Etling, the cultural affairs manager of the 
Gainesville Parks, Recreation and 
Cultural Affairs Department.
Etling said he expects about 
300 people to attend the night of 
refreshments, music and dancing.“It will be an elegant and en-
gaging evening,” he said.
Curator Anne Gilroy said the 
Thomas Center has never merged 
literary and visual art into one ex-hibit.
The art, she said, is meditative 
and reﬂ  ective.
“This show is an invitation 
for you to enter a space of your own,” Gilroy said.
Gilroy said it took her about a 
year to choose 30 pieces of art for the exhibit.
“I am constantly looking at art, 
so I am constantly on an art sa-
fari,” she said.
On opening night, Gilroy said, 
visitors can also waltz under a 
glass canopy ceiling in the Span-ish Court.
“People have an opportunity 
to go through these open doors to get a little bit lost and maybe even get a little bit found,” she 
said.   Upcoming exhibit to combine literary and visual artwork
A SUNSET SMOOCH
UF electrical and computer engineering graduate students AJ Erdman, 23, and Dooyoung 
Kim, 27, kiss on the dock of Sweetwater Wetlands Park at sunset on Monday evening.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
THE HISTORIC 
THOMAS CENTER
302 NE Sixth Ave.
 Hours: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday; 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday; closed Sunday
 Opening night: Thursday, 
March 24, 5:30 p.m. to 
7:30 p.m.It will be held W ednesdayEmma Green / Alligator Staff
BUMP ON A LOG
A small alligator soaks in the waning golden sunlight on Monday 
evening at Sweetwater Wetlands Park.TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 
Gainesville ThrowbacksAndres Leiva / Alligator Staff
SEARCHING THE STACKS
Kelsey Sheer, a 19-year-old UF health science sophomore, laughs with Alana Koch, a 19-year-old UF 
family, youth and community sciences sophomore, as they search the book stacks for an encyclope-dia on the second floor of Library West on Monday.
March 25, 1988
Students are convicted of stealing their rival’s paper. 
Two conservative Republican groups were in an Ala-
chua County courtroom Thursday afternoon as four 
members of UF’s College Republicans were found guilty 
of petty theft. The charges came after 300 copies of The Florida Review, a conservative newspaper of the rival UF Student Republicans, were stolen. 
On July 23, officers found the four students on UF’s 
campus with plastic garbage bags filled with copies of the paper, according to a UF police report. Joe Saviak, Dan Carlson, Frederick Lewis and Gufford pleaded no contest to the charges.
“We didn’t realize what we were doing was illegal,” 
Gufford said to the judge. Saviak added,  “We’re honor students, and we’re planning to attend law school. I hope you take this into consideration, your honor.”
Michael Patrick, an assistant dean at the UF College 
of Law, said the charges could prevent the students from getting into law school.
March 20, 2003
U.S. airstrikes begin outside Baghdad. UF student 
groups discuss their stances on the Iraq War and na-tional security. 
The majority of members of the pro-Palestinian orga-
nization Nakba ‘48 are against the war, said President Rifk Ebeid. Members said they don’t believe the war to be justified because they don’t think President Bush has 
enough evidence against Iraq. 
However, Jaber Al-Juaidiyah, the president of the 
Muslim Student Association, said he supports the war.
“The purpose of the war is to get rid of the regime,” 
Al-Juaidiyah said. “I personally feel that the regime is bad.”Other UF organizations are mixed in what they are 
doing to prepare for the war: The Black Student Union 
and the Hispanic Student Association have not planned anything, but the Hillel Foundation has a plan of action.“Hillel has increased security around the building,” 
Keith Dvorchik, the foundation’s director, said. “We have talked to local police and the FBI about proper se-curity measures in case war does break out.”
Nicole Safker / Alligator Staff
Protesters gather on the steps of Tigert Hall during an anti-war demonstration on March 21, 2007. 
They were there to present a petition to then-UF President Bernie Machen that would declare the university publicly opposed to the war.
STATE
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ST. PETERSBURG — Moments 
after a Florida jury hit Gawker Me-
dia and its founder with $25 million in punitive damages for publishing a sex tape of Hulk Hogan, the former 
pro wrestler told a gaggle of report-
ers that he and his legal team “made history.”
Hogan said Monday evening that 
he thought “we’ve protected a lot of people from going through what I went through.”
The smiling 62-year-old, who 
wore all black throughout the three-
week trial, added that he’s been 
overwhelmed with support by fans.
“Everywhere I show up, people 
treat me like I’m still the champ,” he said.
On Monday, the jury hit Gawker 
Media with a $15 million judgment and its owner, Nick Denton, with $10 million.
It also assessed $100,000 against 
A.J. Daulerio, the Gawker editor who decided to post the edited sex video and wrote the post that accom-panied it.
The punitive damages come on 
top of $115 million the jury imposed Friday after two weeks of trial.
Hogan sued Gawker after it post-
ed a video of him having sex with his 
then-best friend’s wife. Hogan said 
he didn’t know he was being taped.
The president and general coun-
sel of Gawker Media said in a state-ment that the media company ex-pects the multimillion dollar award will be overturned by an appeals court.
Heather Dietrick said in an email 
Monday night that because the jury was prohibited from knowing about “prior court rulings in favor of Gawker, prohibited from seeing critical evidence gathered by the FBI and prohibited from hearing from the most important witness, Bubba Clem,” that an appeals court could overturn the case.
“We are confident we will win 
this case ultimately based on not only on the law but also on the truth,” she said.Jury awards Hogan $25M 
in punitive damagesTUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-20-15-72-2"MR CHEAP ROOM"
is back in service. For economical luxury, call 
Rob 375-8606. Near Campus & only $180/mo.    
3-24-10-2
Houses For Rent close to UF
3/2, excellent condition, fenced backyards, 
pets welcome
$1200 per mo to $1350 per mo.
611 NW 36th Terr, 630 NW 34th Terr
Call Mike -352-665-7316 or
email oranskym@gmail.com
3-25-16-10-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-23-16-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Sublease @ Lux13 Apartments!3 Bed/3 Bath with screened patioW/D, Cable, Internet, & HBO$1,222/mo & Pet FriendlyAvail. April 1st , 985-974-5404    3-28-16-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSelling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-1298 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-1203 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.  
 
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.
Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-23-16-20-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYGet the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Local small business is seeking a market-
ing intern to help grow the business. Must be well-organized, proficient with website design and social media analytics. Help de-sign a data-based review system to drive improvements. Great part-time work for a student. Please send CV to punchkin23@hotmail.com.    3-25-16-10-14
F/T office receptionist wanted. Starting not less than $11 per hour. Legal experience not required. Seeking an energetic person for the front desk that can communicate well with clients. We want this person to be a great first impression for our office. Computer skills helpful, but nothing high end required. Call 352-371-4000     4-1-14-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches hiring part-time deli help/closer and day availability.Apply at 2327 NW 13th St location. Must have reliable transportation.    3-24-16-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Mike Holloway and the 
Florida track team is hoping for better results in the outdoor season.Read the story on pg. 16.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF women's golf in ﬁ  rst place after Day 1 of tourney
The Florida women's golf team is in ﬁ  rst place with a score of three under 
par after the ﬁ  rst day of the Briar's Creek Invitational. Read the story online 
at alligator.org/sports.By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Inside the Florida basketball complex, a 
pair of small trees sit inconspicuously in a 
corner.
Placed in the ﬁ  rst room players enter 
on the way to practice, the trees live in the 
shadow of the room’s trophy cases, which 
are adorned with awards commemorating the men’s team’s success.
“We walk into the complex every day. We 
see all these trophies, right? Not one of them is ours,” UF women’s basketball sophomore Haley Lorenzen said at the beginning of the season. “So for me, (the goal this season is) 
winning an SEC title and hopefully an NCAA 
championship.”
But after two thoroughly devastating loss-
es in both the Southeastern Conference and NCAA tournaments, the women’s team once again has no hardware to put on display. 
Instead, the team’s only presence in the 
room is the two trees, each one decorated with small, white labels hung like Christmas 
ornaments. On them, players, coaches and staff members wrote down why they were 
thankful for the team heading into the season. 
At one time, the messages represented 
hope and optimism for the new season ahead. Now, they sit as a nearly invisible, almost for-gotten reminder of what could have been.
“The opportunity to be a part of something 
special” is what Lorenzen wrote on her label. 
And for a while, that’s exactly what this sea-
son was shaping up to be: something special.
 
      
Following a 13-17 season that concluded 
with a hasty exit from the SEC Tournament 
after a 22-point loss to Auburn, the expecta-Hopeful Florida season ends in disappointment
It’s three days before the Southeastern 
Conference Tournament, and Chris Chiozza has realized something.
All season, the Florida men's bas-
ketball team has been ﬁ  ghting incon-
sistency — during practice, during road games, through its conference schedule, against weaker opponents — even though it had seen itself improve incrementally as the season wound down.
But as Florida’s sophomore point guard 
addressed the media before the team began preparing for its second-round matchup with Arkansas, Chiozza knew there would be an added factor in its next game that was missing from its contests before.
“Sometimes fear is a little bit better mo-
tivator than anything else,” he said.
The fear of elimination, of disappoint-
ment, of the end.
And if fear was in Florida's mind dur-
ing its two-game stand at the SEC Tourna-ment in Nashville, where it won its ﬁ  rst game against Arkansas but was eliminated after a 72-66 loss to eventual tournament runner-up Texas A&M, then it’s absolutely in their minds now, where a loss in the National Invitation Tournament means the end of the season.
Make no mistake.Fear of defeat 
fueling Gators in 
postseason
THE JUNIOR STRUCK OUT 
SIX BATTERS ON SUNDAY 
AGAINST MISSOURI.
By Luis T orres
Sports Writer
Kevin O’Sullivan went into Florida’s series 
against Missouri searching for an answer.
He needed to ﬁ  nd an anchor in his bullpen 
to solidify an already strong pitching staff. Someone who could become the closer for 
the rest of the season as the Gators began their 
run in Southeastern Conference play. 
His answer was Shaun Anderson. The junior righty was electric out of the pen 
against the Tigers. He threw 3.1 scoreless in-nings, striking out six batters, allowing just one hit and picking up his third win of the season to go along with two saves. 
“It’s funny how things work out to where 
(you’re) still trying to ﬁ  gure out who’s the guy at the end and you play three games in the weekend and now you’re thinking, ‘Boy, I think we found our guy,’” O’Sullivan said after Sunday’s game. “I think Shaun was really, re-ally special this weekend.” 
His deﬁ  ning moment of the season came 
during Friday’s game. After the Gators blew a 3-0 lead in the series opener to bring the game to extra innings, O’Sullivan called on Anderson to pitch the 10th inning. The Coral Springs na-tive blew Missouri away, striking out the side on just 12 pitches. 
Florida went on to win the game 4-3 in the bottom half of the frame on a Peter Alonso walk-off single. 
“I kind of just knew I needed to focus on 
every single pitch I was throwing because any mistake I made, I knew they were going to 
capitalize on it,” Anderson said.
But those who are around him aren’t sur-
prised by his success. Anderson is 3-0 with a 
1.15 ERA and three saves, and it’s a credit to the work he puts in during the off days.  
“He works really hard,” UF starting pitch-Shaun Anderson closing in on spot in Florida's rotationAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Haley Lorenzen attempts a layup during Florida's 92-69 loss to Kentucky in the Southeastern Conference T ournament on 
March 4 at Jacksonville Veterans Memorial Arena.
SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14UF lost in the NCAA's irst roundIT'S COHEN DOWN
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenbBy Graham Hack
Sports Writer
UF defensive line coach Chris 
Rumph has a tall task in front of 
him.
Out the door are Jonathan Bul-
lard and Alex McCalister, Florida’s 
two leading pass rushers from a 
year ago who amassed 13 sacks and 27 tackles for loss between the two of them — more than a quar-
ter of the team’s production in both 
areas.
Left behind is a group of tal-
ented rushers who are relatively unproven when it comes to being the primary threat to penetrate the backfield.
Rumph, then, is faced with re-
placing not only the production of Bullard and McCalister but also the veteran presence they provided, 
particularly with Bullard, a player 
so reliable and trustworthy that Rumph joked “he can babysit my kids.”
There are a number of possible 
players who could step into that role: sophomore CeCe Jefferson, redshirt junior Caleb Brantley or maybe seniors like Bryan Cox Jr. or 
Joey Ivie.
And frankly, Rumph couldn’t 
care less. He just wants someone 
to step up to the plate.
“I’m not picking anybody, just 
somebody,” Rumph said. “All four of them. I don’t care.”Although a player like Bull-
ard might seem irreplaceable, the coach is quick to point out how the off-season conversation wasn’t all that different a year ago.
“They say it was hard to replace Dante (Fowler Jr.), but Jon stepped up,” Rumph said. “So somebody will have to step up and be who-ever that guy is this year.”
If this movie seems familiar, it’s 
because it is.
Florida has had a long lineage 
of high-caliber defensive linemen, particularly in the last decade, whether it be Dominique Easley 
and Sharrif Floyd or Justin Trattou 
and Carlos Dunlap before them.
After each player’s departure, 
there is always a question mark about who will fill the void left behind, but inevitably another talented youngster finds a way to bridge the gap and make a name for himself.
With a slew of potential candi-
dates in line on this year’s itera-tion, the odds of that trend con-tinuing are pretty high.
For now, Rumph is content to 
push the group as hard as he can and let the players operate without a clear-cut leader while they sort out their identity for the upcoming 
season.
But when the dust settles, the 
coach is confident someone will 
emerge.
“At first it has to be a commit-
tee,” Rumph said, “and then hope-fully one of those young guys or one of the old heads will take the bull by the horn and run with it.”
@graham_hack24
ghack@alligator.org
er Alex Faedo said. “He’s always doing extra workouts, he’s always in the weight room the longest. … I’m glad he’s getting a good shot out there, and I think three games in a row closing them out, it’s really impressive.”
After closing the door on 
Missouri, No. 1 Florida (21-
1) takes a break from SEC 
play to host Florida Atlantic tonight at 7. UF faced FAU twice last year, winning both games by a combined 
three runs. 
In the second matchup, 
the Owls (15-3) pushed 
Florida to its limit in the Gainesville Regional before losing 2-1.  
If the game is that close tonight, O’Sullivan 
might call on Anderson to close out the game if he needs to. 
Anderson waited two years for this. And now, the junior has seized the oppor-
tunity, and he’s thriving. 
“I think it’s a great learning experience for 
a lot of players in our program that are maybe not playing as much as they want right now, or pitching as much as they want,” O’Sullivan said. “If you stay the course and you continue 
to work hard … then at some point the tide 
will turn. And for Shaun, it’s turning now.”
@LFTorresIII
ltorres@alligator.org
BASEBALL,  from pg 13Florida hosts 
FAU tonight 
at 7 at home14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016
This is not where Florida wanted to be.
Not in the NIT, the consolation brack-
et for the worst of the best teams in the country. Not playing against opponents like North Florida and George Washington and a depleted and tired Ohio State team, when it could have been facing the best with a chance at a postseason run that held meaning.
But in some ways, this tournament 
does hold meaning. 
And it does hold fear.It’s not the fear of losing out on the 
NIT Championship Trophy in New York City’s Madison Square Garden, although the lure of playing in an NBA arena and in one of America’s premier entertainment venues is fairly enticing.
It isn’t the prestige that comes with winning the NIT that piques coach Mike White’s pride. It’s something much sim-pler.
“I’m just proud of the fact that we’re 
still fighting,” White said after UF’s 74-66 win over Ohio State on Sunday.
They are, and it’s partly because the 
alternative is so damn scary.  Not fighting, and with no more games left to play, an abrupt ending to an up-and-down season that saw Florida fall short of its outspoken expectations — the NCAA Tournament.
Twenty-four college basketball teams 
in the country have another game sched-uled to play in a meaningful tournament, and the Gators are one of them. And while they aren’t fighting for national glory or to upset a top seed or even with their full starting lineup, they’re displaying how much this team has grown under White in his first year.
This is the Florida team that White has 
been trying to build all season: maximum effort, pressure defense, stops on one end leading to transition baskets on the other.
In two NIT games, the Gators have 
shot 48.5 percent from the field, including a 22-of-51 clip from the three-point line. They’ve held both opponents to a com-bined 41.2 percent shooting.
But most importantly — and most im-
pressively — they’re still playing, even without a sidelined John Egbunu, for an award that they weren’t expecting to play for, against teams that they don’t usually face, at the end of a challenging season with the nation’s 11th-ranked strength of schedule under a first-year head coach.
They’re still playing.Isn’t that more than enough to expect?
Ian Cohen is the Sports Editor. You can 
contact him at icohen@alligator.org and 
follow him on Twitter @icohenb.COLUMN,  from pg 13
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Mike White calls out instructions during Florida's 88-79 loss to Ken-tucky on March 1 in the O'Connell Center.
Luis T orres / Alligator Staff
Florida defensive lineman CeCe Jefferson participates in a drill during a Spring practice on Monday at the Sanders Football field.
Rumph tasked with replacing talented UF defensive line
Anderson
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
With one event to go, the Florida 
Gators’ Southeastern Conference 
Championship hopes were slipping.
The Alabama Crimson Tide, surg-
ing hard, notched a meet-high event 
score of 49.55 on their final uneven 
bars rotation.
Florida was facing the possibility 
of yet another slim loss in the final moments of a match.
This time, though, UF fired back.Following senior Bridgette Ca-
quatto’s title-clinching 9.875 on the floor, the Gators finally came out on 
the right end of a nail-biter. 
Earlier in the year, No. 2 Florida 
(9-2, 5-2 SEC) appeared to have an 
issue closing out meets. 
Facing similar opposition, the 
team would fly out of the gates, car-rying an advantage into the meet’s final event only to watch it slip away under duress. 
It first became evident on Feb. 5, 
when a 0.625-point edge dissolved in the fourth and final rotation against the Georgia Bulldogs. 
It flared up once more three weeks later en route to a 197.900-
197.875 loss to visiting LSU.
For head coach Jenny Rowland, 
though, the only distinction between 
these regular-season defeats and Sat-urday’s victory was the result.
“Our two losses this year were 
just on the flip-flop side of what 
happened this past Saturday,” she said. “It was a quarter of a tenth, 
it was a half a tenth, which is the smallest mar-gin possible.” 
On their end, 
the Gators stuck 
to their usual formula.
“I believe that our lead-off girls, 
the first girl up on each event, really 
set the tone for the team, for their 
confidence level,” Rowland said. 
Saturday’s championship meet 
saw Florida fly ahead, recording 
a meet-high-tying vault score of 49.425. The squad sustained its ad-vantage in the thick of competition, 
finishing second and first in aggre-
gate score on bars and beam, respec-tively. But when the troublesome final 
round came about, they held their ground. The No. 1-seeded Gators’ third-place score of 49.425 was enough to stave off the upset.
For all that happened in the past, 
Saturday night served as validation.
Throughout it all, the team re-
mained confident, assured in its tal-ent as if it had completed an unde-
feated regular season.
“Every team has its own story,” 
Rowland said. “Year after year, it’s 
different, and this is my first story-book as a head coach. 
“This past Saturday was defi-
nitely a chapter worth reading, and definitely a chapter that I will con-tinue to relive and a moment that I 
will relive for the rest of my career.” 
Regional Announced: The 
Florida Gymnastics team will com-
pete in the Minneapolis Regional on April 2 to open up NCAA competi-tion. The rest of the field includes No. 11 Denver, No. 16 Minnesota, No. 20 Missouri, No. 28 Ohio State and No. 31 BYU. The top-two teams 
in each of the six regionals advances 
to the NCAA Championships in Fort Worth, Texas.
@ajlb95
alopex@alligator.orgtions outside the program were not very hopeful. At SEC Media Day, UF was picked to finish 12th in the SEC. 
But inside the program, hopes 
and expectations were high. 
And while a season-opening 
loss at Temple put a damper on things at the very beginning, it was the season’s second game that set the tone for the rest of the cam-paign.
The Gators were tasked with 
facing then-No. 6 Florida State in Florida’s home opener. The Semi-noles had beaten the Gators by 26 
points the last time the two squads 
met. 
But three new players — a 
freshman and two junior college transfers — turned out to be the spark Florida needed. The 82-72 victory propelled Florida on a 12-game winning streak that carried it through non-conference play. 
“It’s a different year, it’s a dif-
ferent team,” coach Amanda But-ler said after the upset win. “It’s a different spirit, a different energy awareness on this team.”
“2nd chances/support” is what 
redshirt senior Cassie Peoples wrote on her label on the tree. 
Peoples transferred to UF from 
Texas after her freshman year and was suspended twice this season for undisclosed violations of team rules, so she was understandably thankful for the second chances and support. But her personal choices aside, the team also had a new chance to prove itself. 
After going 5-11 in SEC play 
the year before and the quick exit in the 2015 SEC Tournament, the Gators went into SEC play as an afterthought. But that didn’t stop them from competing like they were frontrunners. 
While the very beginning, 
much like the beginning of non-conference play, didn’t start off as 
they hoped — a 76-70 home loss to 
then-No. 8 Mississippi State — the Gators played well enough in that game to build momentum for the games ahead. 
Florida finished 10-6 in the SEC, 
including a win at then-No. 12 Tennessee as well as back-to-back wins over then-No. 12 Kentucky 
and then-No. 12 Texas A&M.
Following a 56-49 win over Au-
burn in the regular-season finale, 
UF solidified its 4-seed status in the SEC Tournament. Once again, they'd meet Kentucky.
Kentucky thrashed Florida in a 
beatdown that got incrementally worse as the game wore on, ulti-
mately winning by 23 points. And 
just like that, one second chance had gone to waste.
But at no time did Peoples' 
thankfulness for second chances resonate more than after that loss.
Because unlike after the SEC 
Tournament loss the year prior, Florida had something to look for-
ward to other than next season this 
time: a chance to play in the NCAA Tournament. 
A No. 5 seed, Florida was pitted 
against Albany in its first game.
Having played in four consecu-
tive NCAA Tournaments coming in, Albany wouldn’t be a push-over. However, as a fifth-seeded team out of the SEC, Florida was favored.
But just as President Barack 
Obama predicted in his women’s 
NCAA Tournament bracket, Flori-
da was upset in a different, more deflating fashion than against Ken-tucky.
“We just weren’t us in the last 
10 minutes of that game,” Butler said. “In the fourth quarter, we just didn’t play Florida basketball. We were a little more hesitant, didn’t 
make good defensive decisions.”
That fourth quarter saw Florida 
surrender what had been a 16-point 
lead in the final minutes of the game. And with that collapse, UF squandered its second opportunity in as many games.
“I am thankful that I have a 
team that is caring but also willing 
to hold me accountable” is what 
January Miller wrote on her label. 
And holding the team account-
able is exactly what Butler did fol-lowing the two losses.
“Definitely some disappoint-
ment in not capitalizing on our opportunities at the end,” Butler said. But while the once-promising 
season turned to severe disap-
pointment over the span of just two games, Butler believes that the program is still headed in the right direction. 
“Sometimes you have to reach 
certain levels and fail to know how to succeed,” Butler said, cit-ing something UF volleyball coach 
Mary Wise told her. “Going for-
ward doesn’t always mean wins. Going forward is sometimes learn-ing lessons through losses and ad-versity.”
While Florida will go into next 
season with nothing tangible to show for the 2015-16 campaign, it did gain two pieces that will help it 
on the same journey next season. 
First, there’s experience. Albany 
was battle-tested and knew the at-
mosphere of the NCAA Tourna-ment. Now UF knows, too. 
Second, they gained confidence. 
In a season where little was expect-ed, the Gators showed that they could hang with the SEC’s best de-
spite their late-season collapse. 
For now, though, the two trees 
will remain in the trophy room as 
the only evidence of Florida even having a women’s basketball team aside from the sign above the door. 
And while their relevance is 
somewhat diminished with the way the season ended, the mes-
sages of hope for the future and 
faith in each other are, in a way, timeless.
“Ability to believe in me,” reads 
junior Simone Westbrook’s label, “and give me an opportunity.”
And next season, that’s exactly 
what the Gators will have once again: an opportunity. Only this 
time, they’ll be able to start off in a 
much better place than they had to the year prior. 
“Wins and losses are certainly 
the easiest things to talk about,” Butler said of her team’s season. “But I think the strides our pro-gram made in terms of reinforcing and fortifying culturally what we’re 
trying to do ... I think that’s suc-
cess.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
W-HOOPS,  from pg 13UF lost to Albany on FridayTUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Brian Lee
Sports Writer
On the surface, the No. 1 Florida softball team looks 
similar to the championship teams of the past two years. 
Upon closer examination, however, this observation 
proves misleading. 
While UF has displayed power at the plate in recent 
seasons — hitting 89 and 80 home runs in 2014 and 2015, respectively — this year’s squad has seen a power shortage. 
Florida isn’t hitting home runs. Through 31 games this season, the Gators have hit 
only 23 homers and are on pace to hit just 50, a total that would mark the lowest output since the 2007 team hit 49. 
“Maybe it’s the fact that our bats aren’t as good. May-
be the ball’s not as good. Maybe our hitters aren’t as good. Maybe we’re not as strong,” coach Tim Walton said. 
“Maybe El Nino has (an) effect on it and the air is 
humid and we’re not able to get the ball lifted, I don’t know.” 
Fortunately for the Gators, a high number of home 
runs does not always correlate with a high rate of suc-cess, especially in the postseason. 
In 2011, Florida hit 124 homers — the highest to-
tal since the Tim Walton era began in 2006 — but was swept by Arizona State in the finals of the Women’s Col-lege World Series. 
“I self-reflect on what our team can do and what our 
team can’t do,” Walton said. 
“Right now, we’re not hitting home runs.” For Florida, 214 out of 271 hits this season have been 
singles — roughly 79 percent. 
On the contrary, in 2014 and 2015, singles accounted 
for 66.8 and 65.1 percent of the Gators’ hits, respectively. 
Also, Florida’s team batting average (.349) is the high-
est it’s been through 31 games in any season during Wal-ton’s tenure, while its strikeout total (86) is the lowest. 
Florida also has the country’s highest on-base per-
centage at .479. 
Although UF’s power numbers are down in 2016, the 
Gators are figuring out how to piece together runs and 
rallies while leaving the rest to their overpowering pitch-
ing staff and lock-down defense. 
With a collective 0.87 ERA and a defense that boasts 
a .986 fielding percentage — both best in the nation — it's becoming clear why the Gators have outscored op-ponents to the tune of 180 runs, 208-28. 
“I think more than anything it is … the tactics of find-
ing out what your team can and can’t do,” Walton said.  
“I think all of those things just kind of tell you what 
our identity really is.” 
@brianlee_17 
blee@alligator.org Small-ball attack proving effective for UF
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Tim Walton talks with T aylor Schwarz during UF's  
doubleheader sweep of  Jacksonville on Feb. 17.
UF finding strength late in meets
Gators open regionals April 2
SOFTBALLRowland
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016
FLORIDA IS COMING 
OFF A DISAPPOINTING 
INDOOR SEASON. 
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
James G. Pressly Stadium, which 
houses UF’s Percy Beard Track, is 
outside.
Florida coach Mike Holloway 
and his athletes spend hours every 
day practicing and training there.
So, it makes sense that Hollo-
way feels his teams will be more 
comfortable and competitive during outdoor season than they were in indoor season.
“We train outside every day,” 
Holloway said. “We are just built better for outdoor. That doesn’t dis-count what happened indoors, but we just have to move forward.”
Most of Holloway’s athletes, 
save the ones who competed at the Black & Gold Challenge on Friday and Saturday, will be making their outdoor season debut on Friday. 
Both the men’s and women’s 
teams will be split between two meets: the Trojan Invitational host-ed by the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, and the Raleigh Relays hosted by N.C. State in Raleigh, North Carolina. 
Holloway expects both of his 
teams to come out strong, with the athletes competing in Los Angeles facing some of the best teams in the nation in Ohio State, USC and Texas.
“If I got to get someone fired 
up to compete against USC, Texas and Ohio State in a track meet, then they shouldn’t be here at the Uni-
versity of Florida,” Holloway said. 
“We take a lot of pride in what we do here, and we need to exhibit that pride. We need to understand that, you know, this is who we are, we are going to face competition like this every weekend and we need to embrace that.”
A good sign for Florida head-
ing into outdoor season is that se-nior Arman Hall, one of the men’s team’s anchors who injured himself in the 200-meter dash at the NCAA Indoors on March 12, will be ready to compete.
“He is fine,” Holloway said. “Our 
goal with Arman is for Arman to be 
the outdoor champion at the NCAA 
meet, and he also has aspirations to make the Olympic team later in the summer. But he is fine, and moving forward we expect him to be well.”If last weekend’s Black & Gold 
Challenge, which included five first-place and three second-place finish-
es for the Gators, is any indication 
of how the outdoor season will pan out, Florida is in good shape.
“Effort and execution. That is 
all that we ask for,” Holloway said. “We have to understand the pro-cess, understand where we are in our training, and what we are do-ing, and just go out and execute. If 
we do that, we will be fine.” 
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org
Gators track hoping for better results in outdoor seasonBy Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
The No. 2 Florida lacrosse team suffered its 
first loss of the season on Saturday to cap off 
the 2016 non-conference schedule.
After starting the season 9-0 and 6-0 against 
ranked opponents, the Gators lost to No. 1 
Maryland 14-4, highlighted by a 10-2 second-
half thrashing that saw Florida commit 19 fouls.
In the effort, the Terrapins held Florida to 
its lowest goal total of the season.
“That was a great opportunity, and I think 
we let it get by us,” UF coach Amanda O’Leary said.
O’Leary added that her players have likely 
already watched film on their own to learn from the mistakes they made during Satur-day’s game.
However, the seventh-year coach refused to 
let the one loss define the season her team has had so far. 
“We played a lot of top-ranked teams in that 
non-conference stretch,” O’Leary said, “I’m re-ally pleased with how the team responded in 
those tight games we had along the way.”
During the first half of the season, the 
Gators knocked off then-No. 2 Syracuse, then-
No. 2 North Carolina and then-No. 8 Stony Brook, all while on the road. 
UF also took care of ranked Loyola, Boston 
College and Towson teams at home, winning those games 15-6, 13-5 and 15-7, respectively.
Coming into the season, juniors Mollie Ste-
vens and Sammi Burgess and redshirt senior Nicole Graziano were already established of-
fensive threats, but three underclassmen have 
stepped in to help create one of the NCAA’s most diverse attacks. 
Freshmen midfielders Sydney Pirreca and 
Lindsey Ronbeck have each scored double-dig-it goals this season and have combined for 10 
assists. Both have played major roles in wins 
over top-five opponents. Pirreca scored a team-high five goals in UF’s 16-15 win against UNC on Feb. 20, and Ronbeck scored her first career hat trick in an 11-10 overtime victory against Syracuse on March 1. 
“It’s just good going forward because we 
know that everyone of all age can score,” Gra-
ziano said of the newcomers after the Mary-
land game, one in which Ronbeck scored two of the team’s four goals. 
In addition to the freshmen, one of the big-
gest contributors who started the season off the radar was Shayna Pirreca.
Starting with her four-goal, two-assist ef-
fort off the bench in a 12-11 comeback victory against Michigan on Feb. 13, the sophomore 
midfielder has been one of UF’s most im-
proved players.
Along with a team-leading 11 assists, Shay-
na has already matched her goal total (14) from last year and upped her shot-on-goal per-centage from last year’s mark of .609 to .704.
“It all comes down to hard work,” O’Leary 
said. “...You’re gonna see her on her days off over at (Donald R. Dizney Stadium) throwing 
at the wall.”
The Gators open Big East play against 
Vanderbilt (4-4) on Saturday at Dizney Sta-
dium at noon, where they will face a familiar face on the opposing sideline.
Shannon Gilroy, who led the team in goals 
and assists last year, is an assistant coach for the Commodores.
“It’s exciting,” O’Leary said of playing 
against both her former player and Vanderbilt.
“There’s nothing better than heading into 
conference play.”
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.orgGators got lax in loss to Maryland, open Big East play Saturday
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Sammi Burgess makes a play on the ball during Florida’s 14-4 loss to Maryland on 
Saturday. 
