We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 117 MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016
Weekend sweep helps 
freshman get out of slump
Nelson Maldonado had four hits in 
three games, pg. 13
Celebrate Pi Day
Check out pizza deals and pie parties in Gainesville, pg. 3
Meet the 2016 mayoral candidates
Candidate proﬁ  les on Lauren Poe and Mayor Ed Braddy, pg. 5Check us out online 
Follow us on Facebook, Twitter @thealligator and Instagram  @thealligator_
By Kayla Solem
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sarai Chavarria yelled “Boycott 
Wendy’s!” as she marched Friday.
The UF history senior walked 
from Norman Field to the Reitz 
Union with more than 120 other people to boycott Wendy’s. The fast-food company has not signed 
onto the Fair Food Agreement, 
which would require it to pay Florida farmers an extra penny per pound of tomatoes.
The Coalition of Hispanics Inte-
grating Spanish Speakers through Advocacy and Service, or CHIS-PAS, is a student group that edu-
cates others about issues facing 
immigrant communities. CHIS-PAS partnered with The Coalition of Immokalee Workers, a human rights organization, to organize 
the march, Chavarria said.Members of the CIW stopped 
in Gainesville as part of a 10-day 
Workers’ Voice tour to educate 
students about Wendy’s, she said. 
In addition to Florida, the CIW has also gone to Ohio, Kentucky and New York on its tour.
The club held the march to 
pressure Wendy’s to sign the agreement, the 25-year-old said. Four of the top ﬁ  ve major fast-food companies, including McDonald’s and Burger King, have signed.
“It’s important that students 
are involved because they are con-sumers,” Chavarria said. “Without knowing the issues, they them-selves are exploiting the farm-workers.”
The agreement would ensure 
safe working conditions and pro-
Students, farmworkers march to boycott Wendy’s
SEE MARCH,  PAGE 4
By Christy Piña
Alligator Contributing Writer
After placing its dogs in a quarantine about 
three weeks ago, Alachua County Animal Ser-
vices recently continued dog adoptions and drop-offs.
On Feb. 24, veterinarians discovered strep-
tococcus zooepidemicus, also known as “strep zoo,” and canine pneumovirus among six dogs. Vernon Sawyer, the ACAS director, said the dogs were cured with an antibiotic called Convenia.
“We’re open to the public again,” Sawyer 
said. “Our guys, the puppies, the dogs, they’re doing good.”
While the afﬂ  icted canines were quaran-
tined, workers asked the community not to bring new dogs.
“So you have to lock everything down, 
treat all the animals that you have at the time and not open that circle until you defeated the virus, or whatever illness it may be,” Sawyer said.
The shelter did, however, accept dogs that 
were injured or a threat to the public, he said.
Marissa Lespinasse, a 20-year-old UF ani-
mal sciences junior, said she believes ACAS correctly handled the outbreak.
“I think the situation is very sad, and pre-
ventative measures should be taken to prevent the spread of these viruses,” said Lespinasse.
While the shelter has dealt with respiratory 
infections and viruses in the past, Sawyer said the recent pathogen and virus were a ﬁ  rst. He 
said the shelter takes in about 5,000 to 6,000 
animals each year, and it can be hard to judge which new drop-offs are sick.
“Obviously they can’t tell us, ‘Hey, you 
know I had chickenpox,’ you know?” Sawyer said. Local  shelter 
dogs cleared for adoption
LOCAL
IT COST $44,550 TO CREATE 
THE NEW WEBSITE.
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF students can now see who their sena-
tors are on Student Government’s updated 
website.
SG launched a new version of its website 
Friday, said Rachel Wise, SG’s press secre-
tary. SG paid $44,550 to Parisleaf, a branding 
agency based in Gainesville, for the website updates. SG started working on the new web-site in June.She said the plan to update the website 
began during former UF Student Body Presi-
dent Cory Yeffet’s term.
The last time the website was fully up-
dated was in 1990, she said. While it’s been 
updated throughout the years, this is the ﬁ  rst time since then the whole website was up-dated.
The new website will allow those who 
aren’t in SG to use it, she said.
“We wanted to update it so it’s easier to 
ﬁ  nd everything,” Wise said.
On the website, users can now ﬁ  nd pic-
tures of their senators for their college, year or district. 
A graphic also details SG’s chain of com-mand and structure.
The website can also be viewed on mobile 
devices, Wise said.
Evan Cartagena, 21, said he doesn’t think 
the website’s update will change voter turn-out.
The UF economics and political science 
senior said he thinks the website’s update will help students understand SG more, but he doesn’t think a lot of change will come out of it.
“I don’t think people are going to start giv-
ing a crap,” he said. “It’s the way things are.”
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org SG updates website, adds information More than 120 protestors marched
LET’S HAVE A BALL
Suhaib Herraka (above), a 27-year-old UF biology junior, dances to Arabic music 
at the Ninth Annual Arabic Ball on Saturday at the Reitz Union. The ball is the Arab Student Association’s largest event of the year. See page ﬁ  ve for more photos.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator StaffSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Pride Awareness Month
The Pride Awareness Month’s 
opening ceremonies will take 
place today at 6 p.m. in the 
University Auditorium. This year’s keynote speaker will be Alicia Garza. An established 
social activist, Garza prompted 
activism nationwide when she — together with Opal Tometi and Patrisse Cullors — intro-duced the world to the Twitter 
hashtag #BlackLivesMatter. The 
hashtag has evolved into the banner under which this gen-eration’s civil rights movement 
marches. Committed to chal-
lenging society to recognize and celebrate the contributions of all individuals, specifically black people and queer communi-
ties, Garza’s activism is rooted 
in organizational strategies and visions to connect individu-als and emerging social move-
ments. Her work has earned her 
various honors, including two Harvey Milk Democratic Club Community activist awards, for her work fighting gentrification 
and environmental racism in 
San Francisco’s largest remain-ing black community.
‘She’s Beautiful When She’s 
Angry’National Women’s Liberation presents a screening of “She’s Beautiful When She’s Angry” on 
Tuesday at the Wooly, situated 
at 20 N. Main Street in down-town Gainesville. Doors open at 6:30 p.m. The film begins at 
7 p.m., and a panel discussion 
will immediately follow the film. Tickets are $5 to $10 on a sliding scale. This documentary resur-rects the buried history of the 
women who founded the mod-
ern women’s movement from 1966 to 1971. “She’s Beautiful” takes us from the founding of 
the National Organization for 
Women (NOW) to the emer-gence of more radical factions of women’s liberation. It does not shy away from controver-
sies over race, sexual preference 
and leadership that arose in the women’s movement. This event is co-sponsored by Gainesville 
Area NOW.
God and the End of Satan: An 
Artist’s Journey to Translating 
and Publishing Victor Hugo’s 
PoetryIn 2014, artist and writer Richard 
Skinner published “God and the 
End of Satan / Dieu et la Fin de 
Satan,” a bilingual edition of se-lected verses from Victor Hugo’s two epic poems, most of which had never been translated into 
English. Skinner will talk about 
the journey that led him to the publication of this translation, from the reason why he decid-
ed to undertake this project, to 
his meticulous search of Hugo’s manuscript Tuesday from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. in Library West, Room 212 (Scott Nygren Scholars 
Studio).
iSTEAM seminar series pres-
ents demo of brain-controlled drone
Doctoral candidates Marvin Andujar and Chris Crawford at UF’s Brain-Computer Interface Group will speak on Neural 
Methods of Brain-Robot 
Interaction at the Marston Science Library on Wednesday at 3 p.m. in Room L136 (first 
floor of Marston). They will 
conduct an indoor flight demon-stration of their brain-controlled drone and discuss their research in measuring and enhancing the 
user’s physiological engagement 
levels with wearable electroen-cephalographic technologies. The iSTEAM Speakers Series 
presents topics of interest to stu-
dents majoring in science, tech-nology, engineering, arts and/or math.
Apply now for 2016-17 financial 
aidTo apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid at fafsa.
ed.gov. You can file a FAFSA as early as Jan. 1 each year. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive the results of your FAFSA from 
the federal processor is Tuesday. 
Apply before Tuesday to ensure that the federal processor has time to analyze and send the 
results of your FAFSA to the 
UF Office of Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis so apply as early as possible to 
be considered for the most and 
best aid. In order for UF Student Financial Affairs to consider you for a financial aid package, you 
must be an admitted student and 
have met the “On-Time” dead-line. For more information or assistance with completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or con-tact your financial aid adviser 
sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Toastmasters meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, sit-
uated at 970 Natural Area Drive, 
east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art. Everyone is wel-come to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For details about 
Talking Gators, go to talking-
gators.toastmastersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page. "The mission of 
Toastmasters is to provide a sup-
portive and positive learning ex-perience in which members are empowered to develop commu-nication and leadership skills, 
resulting in greater self-confi-
dence and personal growth."
Submit your art to Luminaire by 
March 20Submissions are open now for 
Luminaire, an art showcase 
hosted by the Student Honors Organization. Show off your talent and display your work at the Reitz Union Breezeway on 
March 23 and March 27. Three 
eligible winning artists will be awarded a total of $750 in schol-arship prizes by the UF Honors 
Program. Sketches, sculptures, 
videos, graphic designs, photo-graphs and more are welcomed — just remember to submit be-fore March 20. For more infor-
mation or to sign up now, visit 
luminaireuf.wix.com/artshow.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mgracehenley@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 117
HIGH  82° LOW  59°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
25$ off 
your activation fee
Visit Cricket Wireless at:
3558 SW Archer Rd,
Gainesville FL
When you bring this
coupon in 
*on qualifying plans*
By Melissa Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Blaze Pizza, situated at 3617 SW Archer Road, will 
celebrate Pi Day with $3.14 pizzas from 11 a.m. to 11 
p.m. Monday.
The national company will also preview restau-
rant openings, feature guests and reveal pop-up pizza parties on its Snapchat, @blazepizza, according to a 
press release.
Laurie Ruggles, an operating partner for Blaze Piz-
za in North Central Florida, said the event started in 2012 with the opening of the first franchises.
“The goal is to thank our loyal guests and cele-
brate Pi Day,” she said.  “Locals will be able to enjoy a build-your-own pizza with unlimited toppings for $3.14.”
After the Archer Road location opened Jan. 8, 
2015, employees made more than 2,000 pizzas on Pi Day, Ruggles said.
“The guests were having fun, and so were the em-
ployees,” she said.
The regular price for a build-your-own pizza is 
$7.95, and Ruggles said the goal is to have each pizza done in four minutes.
“In Gainesville specifically, we have finishes that 
we put on our pizza,” Ruggles said. “Gainesville stu-dents are huge fans of the pesto sauce.”
Lauren Browning, a 19-year-old UF health science 
sophomore, said Blaze is her favorite pizza place.
“I went to Pi Day last year,” she said. “Although 
the line was long, the wait was worth it for the price 
and the delicious food.”Blaze Pizza 
celebrates Pi Day
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Hunter Tonder is baking two pies for Pi Day.
The UF health science sophomore is making a dark 
chocolate raspberry pie and a maple syrup peach pie for the mathematical holiday, which takes place to-day. The day celebrates the mathematical value, 
which is rounded off at 3.14.
The 20-year-old said he’s entering the pies at Gator 
Wesley Foundation’s annual Pi(e) Party.
“It’s a funny date, and it’s a good way to meet 
people,” Tonder said.
Gator Wesley is hosting the event at the Gator 
Wesley building at 6 p.m.
Audrey Metcalf, 20, said the event gives people a 
chance to come together and have fun.
“It’s a good stress reliever in the middle of the 
school year,” the UF anthropology junior said. “Might as well have a pie day.”
The Benton Engineering Council is using the day to 
help raise money for their Dance Marathon team. For the event, people pledge money for students to dance 
26.2 hours for Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals.
Michael Silberling, president of the council, said 
the organization is asking for donations of $3.14 or more to help raise money.
In the past, Silberling said the organization sold 
pie to students to eat or to throw in a professor’s face. This year, the organization was unable to find a spon-sor for the event.
“We’re trying to do it all online and see if we can 
expand our reach,” Silberling, 22, said.UF celebrates 
Pi Day with pie Pi Day Deals and Events
Pi(e) Party
• Gator Wesley Foundation at 6 p.m.
• Students can make their favorite 
pie recipe and submit it for a pie-
judging contest
Blaze Pizza 
• Get an unlimited-topping pizza for 
$3.14
• Gainesville Location: 3617 SW Archer Road
Domino’s Pizza
• Get a medium one-topping pizza for $3.14
• Deal starts at 3:14 p.m. today and goes through 3:14 a.m. Tuesday
Lauren Johnson / Alligator Staff4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016
vide workers a bonus, according to the CIW 
website.
Wendy’s would be the last of the top five 
companies to join, Chavarria said.
She said it’s important for students to 
stand with Immokalee workers. Students 
can tell Wendy’s to join the agreement by 
refusing to spend their money there and boycotting.
“If we don’t help the communities that 
need it the most, then it doesn’t say much 
about our democracy that we have in this 
country,“ Chavarria said.   
Leonel Perez, a part-time employee at the 
CIW and a farm worker, came to Gainesville 
for the march.
“Students are consumers,” said Perez, in an interview translated from Spanish. “They 
have a big voice in demanding fair foods.”
Perez said he has seen many positive 
changes in the agriculture industry as more companies sign the agreement.
Karla Avila, a UF criminology and law 
sophomore, said that as a Latina, she feels strongly about farm workers’ rights.
Avila said students should know that not 
all people earn a minimum wage. The feder-al minimum wage is $7.25, but she said she has met field workers who earn $6 an hour.
She said farm workers are trying to 
achieve a better life but struggle with the low wages.
“We come to this country trying to pur-
sue the American dream, and sometimes the 
system just doesn’t comply,” the 20-year-
old said. MARCH,  from pg1Four top companies have signed
Courtesy to the Alligator
Supporters with the The Coalition of Immokalee Workers marched in protest of 
Wendy’s over the Fair Food Agreement, which would require the fast-food company to pay Florida farmers an extra penny per pound of tomatoes.
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Know Where Coffee shop’s cof-
fee reminds Denisse Almeida of 
the lattes in Miami.  
The shop, situated at 1226 W. 
University Ave., will celebrate its one-year anniversary with a latte art competition tonight.
“I haven’t found coffee like that 
in Gainesville anywhere else,” Al-meida, a 22-year-old UF aerospace engineering senior, said.
Owner and manager Alfonso 
Guerrero-Villa said the event is free for spectators and $5 for com-petitors, who can sign up at 6:30 p.m.
“We wanted to showcase what 
we’ve done,” he said.
The first pours will begin at 
7:15 p.m, Guerrero-Villa said, and 
the collected entry fees will be 
awarded to the top two or three winners, depending on atten-dance.
Aside from a steam pitcher, he 
said, participants will not be al-lowed to use other tools.
Guerrero-Villa said he serves 
coffee from global regions such 
as Guatemala and Rwanda, along 
with Tampa, the hometown of a coffee roaster who will help judge participants.“Two baristas go head to head, 
then judges go and pick between one of those two people,” Guerre-ro-Villa said.
Siria Gamez, a 26-year-old UF 
wildlife ecology and conservation senior, said she is excited to see what patterns the baristas make.
“I mean, I’m Hispanic, and I 
think a latte is the closest thing to a café con leche,” she said. “I also like the aesthetic of the latte — you have the heart and all that 
in the latte.”Show off your latte art skillsPROFILE
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
It’s a good thing Emma Camp-
bell looked outside Saturday after-
noon.
From her balcony at Aviara 
Apartments, Emma Campbell, a 
Santa Fe College student, saw a 
boy in the complex pool at about 3:45 p.m.
As 16-year-old Zyvion Speed-
Mitchell lay motionless under the water, Campbell realized he wasn’t playing.
“She ran out of her apartment 
and jumped the fence and jumped 
in and saved him,” Zyvion’s moth-
er, Carmelia Speed, said.
Campbell dragged his limp 
body to the surface and performed CPR until paramedics arrived.
If the rescue had taken just a 
few minutes longer, Zyvion could have suffered cardiac arrest, per-manent brain damage or death, 
said Gainesville Fire Rescue Opera-
tions Chief Michael Cowart.
After the body goes without 
oxygen for more than about six minutes, muscle tissue begins to die, he said.
Zyvion, a sophomore at East-
side High School, does not remem-ber the incident well, but his moth-
er said it’s clear who saved him.
Even as her son recovers at UF 
Health Shands Hospital, Speed can-
not believe Zyvion came so close to disaster.
Since the Gainesville Police De-
partment posted about the rescue on its Facebook page Saturday, more than 10,000 people have 
liked it, as of press time.
Campbell has declined every in-
terview thus far, GPD spokesman 
Officer Ben Tobias said.
“It’s just something embed-
ded in certain people where they feel called to help, but they don’t necessarily want the recognition,” Cowart said.
•   •   •
Speed heard a knock at her door 
Saturday afternoon.
She was confused after receiv-
ing the news from one of Zyvion’s friends.
Why would her son, who is 
scared of water and doesn’t know how to swim, go near a pool?
Speed then grabbed her 
12-year-old daughter and took a five-minute drive to the apartment complex.
“When I got there, I saw some 
of the kids from the neighborhood, and they stopped my car and told me that Zyvion had drowned, and that he was in the ambulance on 
his way to the hospital,” she said.
At Shands, nurses directed 
Speed to her son’s hospital room, 
where doctors said he would be OK.
Speed said she greeted Camp-
bell with a strong hug and show-ered her with praise.
“She’s definitely part of our 
family for the rest of our lives,” she said. “I mean, she saved my son.”
•   •   •
On Feb. 28, another Santa Fe 
student jumped into action.
Rachel Sheehan, 18, noticed a 
man in cardiac arrest at the Oaks Mall, at which point she applied 
CPR and then followed him to the 
hospital, Cowart said.
He said 70 percent of people 
want to help in an emergency situ-ation but don’t know how.
“Having that knowledge and 
being able to know how to react in case something happens is invalu-able,” Cowart said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgSanta Fe student 
rescues drowning boy from local pool
 
Jessica Rodriguez / Alligator
WE ARE THE CHAMPIONS
Trace Thome, a 20-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology junior, wins the National Collegiate 
Wrestling Association Championships for the 157-pound weight class on Saturday at Silver Spurs Are-na in Kissimmee. UF’s club wrestling team took first place overall for Division 2.
Coffee shop hosts contest
“Two baristas go head to 
head, then judges go and 
pick between one of those two 
people.”
Alfonso Guerrero-Villa
Know Where Coffee ownerMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Lauren Poe wants to improve life for 
Gainesville’s low-income residents.
The 45-year-old mayoral candidate said 
he hopes to make Gainesville’s housing 
affordable for all residents, add bus routes to east Gainesville and create after-school and summer children’s programs.
Poe came to Gainesville after ﬁ  fth 
grade when his father became the band director at UF. In 1993, he graduated from UF with a bachelor’s degree in history and a master’s degree in education in 1998.
He served as city commissioner from 
2008 to 2015. After losing re-election in 2011 for his District 2 commissioner seat, Poe came back as a city-wide commis-
sioner in 2012.
The Santa Fe College professor said he 
comes from a family of teachers. He hopes 
programs for children will improve gradu-ation rates and decrease crime.
“When you’re a teacher, you see the 
sad and devastating effects of inequality,” he said. “I ﬁ  rmly believe it does take a village to raise a child, and Gainesville’s 
our village.”
He said his favorite thing about 
Gainesville is the diversity of its residents. 
As a city commissioner, he participated in 352ArtsRoadmap, which asked residents 
how the city could support the arts.
But he said Gainesville’s largest prob-
lem is inequality. Gainesville has some of 
the highest rates of economic segregation 
in the state and nation.
“We have a huge gap in income in-
equality,” he said. “While this city works 
very well for some people, perhaps stu-dents, perhaps middle- or upper-income folks, it is leaving the rest of our residents behind.”
He said as mayor he would work to 
overcome this by addressing housing seg-regation.
“One of the greatest blights to any 
community is when you pack poverty into 
concentrated areas,” he 
said.
He said expanding 
public transportation 
and focusing on safety 
will decrease Gaines-ville’s poverty. He said about 420 people died on Alachua County’s roads 
in the last 10 years, and he wants to bring that number to zero by 2025.
“We can eliminate those deaths,” he 
said. “It’s completely within our abilities.”
He also wants to add an across-town 
express bus route, which would have few-er stops than a normal route, he said. It would run from East Gainesville through the UF Health Shands medical complexes 
and to Archer Road to get residents to 
their jobs faster.
Hadley Hartman, an economics profes-
sor at Santa Fe, has worked in an ofﬁ  ce 
next to Poe for 14 years. He said Poe has 
the experience needed to be mayor.
He said when Poe was a commissioner, 
he worked to pass legislation to beneﬁ  t Gainesville.
Hartman said Poe will unify Gainesville.“I think he sincerely cares about 
Gainesville and the people here and the future,” he said.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgCandidate proile: Lauren Poe
Poe
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Mayor Ed Braddy is running for re-
election.
Braddy, who was elected in 2013, 
said he’s worked to bring together stu-dents and the city, creating two joint City Commission meetings during which UF’s Student Government and the commis-
sion discussed underage drinking, adding 
bike lanes in the city streets, Gainesville Regional Utilities bills and the concealed carry of weapons.
Braddy said he’s also reached out to 
UF Health Senior Care and Uber to create Freedom in Motion, a transportation ser-vice for seniors in Gainesville.
Braddy said he helped secure $15,000 
for the program. No numbers have been recorded because the program just com-pleted a trial run in a few Gainesville neighborhoods, but Braddy said the ser-vice has been expanded citywide.
Braddy said he’s worked with Charlie 
Lane, UF’s senior vice president and chief operating ofﬁ  cer, to increase the number of street lights around the city.
The project installed street lights along 
Southwest Ninth Road and Southwest Ninth Avenue, which cost about $1 mil-lion to $1.4 million, according to Alligator archives. 
“We felt like it was a beneﬁ  t not only 
for the students, but also the community, too,” Lane said.
At the 2016 State of the City Address, 
Braddy said his top priority is to lower Gainesville Regional Utilities bills. 
“It took us a long time to get into this 
mess, but we’re slowly getting out of it,” he said, adding that the city has lowered fuel adjustment charges, lowered the amount of electricity or gas a customer 
uses, and sold power to Alachua County 
and Winter Park.
Braddy said his success as sitting may-
or is a result of facilitating partnerships between organizations in Gainesville.
“I put ideas together, 
but I think the real role of a mayor who really wants to represent the 
entire city and not a nar-
row constituency is to be able to bring diverse groups of people togeth-
er,” he said.
Lane, who worked closely with Braddy 
on the street lights project, said he sees Braddy at city and university functions.
“Ed tried to demonstrate his support 
for UF by participating (in UF’s events),” Lane said.
To voters concerned about his involve-
ment with Jeffery McAdams, a former po-lice ofﬁ  cer and former president of Gator 
Lodge, who stole about $56,000 from the 
lodge, Braddy said he accepts he made mistakes, but the mistakes don’t over-shadow his past term.
“None of it’s disqualifying, and if you 
look at the record in ofﬁ  ce, I think that far outweighs a couple of dumb things I did three years ago,” he said.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org
Editor’s Note: Donald Shepherd, 
Gainesville’s third mayoral candidate, declined an interview with the Alligator.  MEET THE 2016 MAYORAL CANDIDATES
Candidate proile: Ed Braddy
The Gator Dabke team performs during the Arab Student Association’s Ninth 
Annual Arabic Ball on Saturday at the Reitz Union.Braddy
Let’s have a ball
 Daniela De La T orre, a UF international studies student, belly-dances at the Ninth Annual Arabic Ball on Saturday night in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
Photos by Isabel Bonnet / Alligator StaffThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Sink or swim: 
We’re all in this 
together
Tuesday’s the day: Florida’s primary elections and 
Gainesville city elections. Many of you have prob-ably enthusiastically cast your vote already, or per-haps you’re dead set on voting tomorrow for your proclaimed best candidate forever. If either of these 
is the case, then this piece isn’t for you. We dedicate this number to all those who generally abstain from voting, who genuinely feel as though their vote means nothing, especially in such a rigged system. Admittedly, you’re not misguided in your anger.
We get it: Politics can be ugly. It’s as though Shakespeare 
was prophetically warning us of this election season when he quipped, “All the world’s a stage.” But the solution to the political game isn’t ambivalence — it’s vigilance. When 
Americans abstain from the political process, corruption fes-
ters. This isn’t a conspiracy theory, it’s reality.
Why is it we Floridians, the majority of whom want ac-
tion taken against climate change amid rising sea levels and depleting aquifers, remain under the authority of a governor who banned the Florida Legislature from uttering the words “climate change”? Maybe it’s because voter turnout two years ago was an embarrassing 50.5 percent, leaving Gov. Rick Scott a victory by a margin of just over 64,000 votes. In 
terms of Florida’s voting population, that is not a lot of votes. 
Even on a bad day, The Swamp easily holds over 50,000 people. We could have rounded up the other 10,000 from the morning Starbucks line at Library West.
If nothing else convinces you of the dire importance of 
voting, look to what Congress is doing to shadily undercut voter turnout. Congress and state legislatures across the country legislate contingencies to voter rights, which often sound reasonable in theory, but in practice negatively affect 
racial minorities and the impoverished.
For instance, preventing felons from voting sounds rea-
sonable at the surface: Why let murderers and thieves take 
part in electing public ofﬁ  cials? Well, felons aren’t just “ur-ban thugs,” as Fox News and CNN would have you believe. In our lovely state, possessing 0.7 ounces of marijuana is felonious. So throw together these voter restriction laws and our criminal justice system, which punishes low-level drug offenders, and we have a state in which 23 percent of our 
African-American adult population is legally disenfranchised 
from voting. Clearly, certain ofﬁ  cials only want certain popu-lations to vote.
If they really wanted all of us to vote, there’d be a voting 
booth on every city street, in every Wal-Mart parking lot and in every new smartphone, preinstalled as an app. Your vote isn’t simply a right so many fought and died for, as the com-mon argument goes. It’s a privilege the person next to you on the bus or at the grocery store might not have.
So, to those still reading — hi, thanks for putting up with 
our rant — please go vote Tuesday. And while we don’t cur-rently ofﬁ  cially endorse a candidate, we do ask you to care-fully consider each candidate’s propensity to ﬂ  ip-ﬂ  op, make “hands” jokes or arouse xenophobia. And at the local level, do some light reading about each mayoral and commission candidate; whomever is elected will have a direct impact on our Gainesville community. This election, and more impor-tantly you, the readers, are too valuable to take a backseat to 
the political process.Our various technologies prohibit introspection
We live lives without half-lives.
My brother recently found some of 
our father’s love letters. In one from 
1982, a woman breaks up with him: “Here I am again, staring at a blank 
page. Seems I’m still feeling like I have to explain something that maybe can’t be explained…. You said you wanted our relationship to always stay the same; I don’t think it is possible for a rela-tionship to stay the same. People get closer, or they separate…”
We know that once Henry James got a typewriter, his 
style ﬂ  owered into prolixity. Similarly, messaging has sent such letters to the dustbin. Means of communication deﬁ  ne 
the limits of our communication. Texting means dislocated 
witticisms, late responses and jumping here and there. It is anathema to profundity. Communication is always possi-ble; it is never important. When we’re with someone, mag-netized and atomized by our devices, we’re alone together.
Once I was dating an Italian in Paris. The night before I 
left, he said, “I wish I would never see you again.” He was always this awkward. “I will never say addio and mean it,” he said. “I wish I could always remember you like this.”
With messaging, relationships decay into tedious, super-
ﬁ  cial exchanges of anecdote. Relationships survive, but as hideous shells. Hasty communications trap us in the trivial-ity and imminence of the passing moment; letters or emails outstrip the ephemeral, synthesize, turn skeleton into ﬂ  esh.
New means of communication are inseparable from the 
multiplication of possible relationships. These technologies have sapped relationships of legitimacy. Even the names of the sites are cynical: “Plenty of ﬁ  sh,” “OK Cupid.” Dissect-
ed, deprived, depraved. The quantity of possible encoun-
ters becomes a quality: We’re sold in bulk. We no longer have the breakup letters of yesteryear (e.g. 1982): We talk of ghosting — don’t like him? Cut it off, block him, disap-pear and it’s done.
Nor can we communicate with ourselves. Before, we 
had the diary. It was a technology of the self, of a self that merited “the care of the self.” The slowness, the physical effort of writing, the intimacy of pages stuffed in the drawer — the blog killed that. Private thought became public. With WordPress, Live-Journal, Xanga and now Tumblr, authentic inti-macy — I only write for me, no secrets, no suc-
cess — becomes false intimacy. The thinking I 
becomes a performing I. No return, no remedy, except refusal.
In her awesome diary, Dawn Powell wrote 
that Henry Miller’s writing “is like observing somebody belch — now he feels better but it 
doesn’t do you any good.” Perfect description of today’s young literature: Where blog bleeds into book. The type-writer still had ribbons, cutting and pasting; the word 
processor unleashes unstoppable, unreadable logorrhea. 
The authors of so-called “affectless realism” pop Adderall sit before the MacBook and publish directly to their com-munity websites. No editing, no effort: They compensate banality with superﬁ  ciality, adorning it all in a childish ni-hilism. We’ve denigrated the self but staged a Copernican revolution: Society’s dead! Politics is a lie! The family’s a hologram! Everything turns around the self. Hence this lit-erature: onanistic prostitution.
The girl-writers resort to the one thing society shall al-
ways afford them — their sex — and write Thought Catalog tales of blow jobs and publish Tumblr selﬁ  es of their tits. But where’s the taboo? They do exactly what post-’68 me-dia demands in a mood of stillborn protest. Their narration is encrusted in an epidemic of negative narcissism: “I don’t know what I am, but all I know is myself, it’s me that I sell, I am what I sell.”
The self is now a surface: event and reﬂ  ex. Introspection 
is the sacriﬁ  cial lamb of the age of the blog. Henceforth, we live in documentation. The self remains but is left prosti-tuted, pillaged, ﬂ  ying without papers. A delicate thing can take only so much sun. More words, but less me: Narcis-sism enters necrosis, and writing becomes necrophilia. The author is dead; long live the author.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish senior. 
Her column appears on Mondays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Two weeks ago, the UF 
Levin College of Law host-ed its ﬁ  rst Double Gator Re-
ception, an event in which 
professors, administrators, 
alumni and potential law students could meet and mingle.
I was invited to the event and 
gladly went. I met plenty of people who were glad to reminisce about their law school experiences and ponder the future of UF Law. After all, the college has a 
relatively new dean, with only about a year 
under her belt.
Everyone at the event mentioned the 
same thing: The new dean is something spe-
cial.
Naturally, I had to ﬁ  nd out what’s so spe-
cial for myself. On a whim, I asked Dean 
Laura Rosenbury, UF Law’s ﬁ  rst female permanent dean, for an interview. She was 
busy, but found time for a lowly undergrad-
uate: She’s a true woman of the people.
Within minutes of conducting the inter-
view, I was immediately impressed with 
Dean Rosenbury. And what’s not to be 
impressed with? She has a dream resume: Harvard University law degree, professor at the University of Chicago and Stanford Uni-versity, distinguished feminist scholar and 
former vice dean of Washington University 
School of Law.
We talked about her path to deanship, 
the future of UF Law and some of her re-
forms. But I’ll start with the last question I 
asked her: Should students still pursue a law degree?
Unsurprisingly, the law dean answered 
“yes,” but it was a qualiﬁ  ed “yes.” If a stu-
dent is not sure what to do with his or her 
life, then going to law school is probably not the best choice. But if a student wants to “use the legal system to come up with cre-
ative solutions to solve problems,” then un-
doubtedly the answer is “yes.” That answer really encapsulated the whole interview: As the head of the law school, Dean Rosenbury is coming up with creative solutions to solve 
problems the law school faces, especially 
problems with attendance.
The legal job market has been contract-
ing, leaving some law students behind. This makes potential students reluc-tant to enter law school. While the market is slowly improving, 
many are still hesitant to take 
the law-school plunge. Good law schools like UF — ones with a great culture, alumni base and 
faculty — are struggling to ﬁ  nd 
new students.
Law school applications na-
tionwide have been dropping. In 2011, appli-cations dropped 35 percent. In 2015, UF law 
applications were down 65 percent. Luckily, 
the dean is proactively improving admis-sions by expanding the application pool and showcasing the strength of the Gator Nation 
in creative ways. Once “strong and diverse” 
law students enroll at UF, the students’ tal-ents and her reforms would “propel the law school in the rankings.”
She told me UF is the No. 2 feeder univer-
sity of law schools nationwide, a factoid un-beknownst to me — she’s dean for a reason. With that in mind, Dean Rosenbury cre-atively began mining UF’s talent pool. Gator 
Express, an admissions program in which 
UF students can submit applications to UF Law in November and hear back within three weeks, was implemented. Data is used in new ways. Application fee waivers are of-
fered to the most promising law students.
To show the strength of the UF Law’s 
alumni base — loyally ready to hire UF Law 
graduates — the dean created the Double 
Gator Reception, an impressive event that 
ﬂ  aunts UF’s networking power. Last year, 1,300 students applied to UF Law. This year, applications are currently between 2,300 and 2,400. The application period ends in 
July.
Not only that, but the dean is also help-
ing struggling students look for jobs. She 
called on faculty and staff to do everything 
within their power to assist the students in 
the job hunt. She’s making sure no Gator is left behind. This is just a small sample of the creative solutions Dean Rosenbury is enact-ing. If the past few months are indicative of 
the next few years ahead, I think UF Law 
has a lot to look forward to.
Michael Beato is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Mondays.UF dean: law school is still worth itColumn
The U.S. has the second-highest prison population rate, according to the In-
stitute for Criminal Policy 
Research and the World 
Prison Brief. While the U.S. touts itself as the “home of the free,” 
this seems contradictory to Ameri-
can values. Mass incarceration is a lose-lose problem: Those who are needlessly incarcerated lose the ability to inte-grate easily into society and the taxpayers are 
footing the bill for something that ultimately 
does not make us any safer. According to the University of Chicago Crime Lab, the costs for housing an inmate can be around $30,000 a 
year, but this does not take into account the 
social costs of high rates of incarceration. 
Each person imprisoned is a missing family 
or community member. It seems logical that longer jail sentences for more criminals will make people safer, but this is an oversimpli-
ﬁ  cation. While the political climate may seem 
more polarized than ever, according to Matt Ford’s article “Can Bipartisanship End Mass Incarceration?” efforts to end mass incarcera-tion have bipartisan support, even getting 
backing from Koch Industries — unfortunate-
ly, as “tough-on-crime” rhetoric also once has bipartisan support.
With such widespread support for a solu-
tion to mass incarceration, one would think a solution would already be in the works, and the issue would not be up for discussion any-more. Sadly, that’s not the case. On the Demo-cratic side, there is a difference of opinion 
when it comes to what the root of the problem 
really is. Chelsea Clinton, when campaign-ing for her mother, emphasized how she be-lieves the solution is about jobs and education, not at the prison level, which is essentially saying, “those 
people shouldn’t have gotten ar-
rested in the ﬁ  rst place.” 
It completely disregards the 
external factors that contribute to 
high incarceration, such as manda-
tory minimum sentences, long sen-tences for nonviolent drug offenses 
and “three-strikes” rules. Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton may have an incentive 
to take this approach, as Politico reported she 
has received contributions from prominent for-proﬁ  t prison lobbyists. For these institutions, more prisoners equal more proﬁ  ts. Although 
donations are not always quid pro quo, this 
makes it clear where Clinton’s interests lie on this issue.
In contrast, Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., 
takes into account how external factors affect 
whether a person ends up incarcerated, such 
as race. According to Sanders’ website, when he spoke to a crowd in Des Moines Sanders said, “From Ferguson to Baltimore and across 
this nation, too many African-Americans and 
other minorities ﬁ  nd themselves subjected to a system that treats citizens who have not com-mitted crimes as if they were criminals, and that is unacceptable.” The problems of mass 
incarceration and racism are completely inter-
twined: When there is such a high burden to avoid police suspicion, it’s no wonder which group ends up with higher rates of incarcera-
tion. 
African-Americans are much more likely to 
be incarcerated, get longer sentences for the 
same crimes and are more often arrested for drug offenses, according to German Lopez’s 
article “Mass incarceration in America, ex-
plained in 22 maps and charts.” While Sand-ers is widely projected to do best in whiter states, Clinton’s position on this policy shows 
she doesn’t see how multilayered the problem 
of mass incarceration is. Although the Demo-cratic candidates agree on a lot of issues, this is one that clearly distinguishes them from one another and shows how different a Sand-
ers presidency would be from a Clinton presi-
dency.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sopho-
more. Her column appears on Mondays.Sanders  and Clinton on incarcerationColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.org
“It seems logical that 
longer jail sentences 
for more criminals 
will make people 
safer, but this is an 
oversimplication.”MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016
Second Round
March 17-18Third Round
March 19-20Sweet Sixteen
March 24-25Elite Eight
March 26-27Final Four
April 2Final Four
April 2Elite Eight
March 26-27Sweet Sixteen
March 24-25Third Round
March 19-20Second Round
March 17-18National Championship
April 4
1 Kansas
16 Austin Peay
8 Colorado
9 Connecticut
5 Maryland12 South Dakota State
4 California13 Hawai’i
6 Arizona11 Vanderbilt/Wichita State
3 Miami
14 Buffalo
7 Iowa10 T emple
2 Villanova
15 UNC-Asheville
1 Oregon16 Holy Cross/Southern
8 Saint Joseph’s
9 Cincinnati
5 Baylor
12 Yale
4 Duke
13 UNC-Wilmington
6 T exas
11 Northern Iowa
3 T exas A&M
14 Green Bay
7 Oregon State
10 VCU
2 Oklahoma
15 Cal State Bakersﬁ  eld1 North Carolina
1 Virginia16 FGCU/Fair. Dickinson
16 Hampton8 Southern California
8 T exas T ech9 Providence
9 Butler5 Indiana
5 Purdue12 Chattanooga
12 Little Rock4 Kentucky
4 Iowa State13 Stony Brook
13 Iona6 Notre Dame
6 Seton Hall11 Michigan/Tulsa
11 Gonzaga3 West Virginia
3 Utah14 S. F. Austin
14 Fresno State7 Wisconsin
7 Dayton10 Pittsburgh
10 Syracuse2 Xavier
2 Michigan State15 Weber State
15 Middle T ennesseeFirst Four
First Round    March 15-16
11 Vanderbilt
11 Wichita St
3/1516 FGCU
16 Fair. Dickinson
3/1511 Michigan
11 Tulsa
3/1616 Holy Cross
16 Southern
3/16
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Collegiate 
Members 
receive a 
$15 gift card
Bring a valid 
student ID to the member 
Service Desk
MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-20-15-72-2"MR CHEAP ROOM"
is back in service. For economical luxury, call 
Rob 375-8606. Near Campus & only $180/mo.    
3-24-10-2
Houses For Rent close to UF
3/2, excellent condition, fenced backyards, 
pets welcome
$1200 per mo to $1350 per mo.
611 NW 36th Terr, 630 NW 34th Terr
Call Mike -352-665-7316 or
email oranskym@gmail.com
3-25-16-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
2/2 Las Pampas TOWNHOME for sale. Bedroom on the first floor has tile flooring with access via sliding doors to a patio that is fenced for privacy. 2nd bedroom which is carpeted is located upstairs. 77k Call Theresa 407-462-8695    3-15-16-5-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99995 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Seeking responsible and engaging individual 
to supervise and work with children grades 1st through 8th in our After School Program. M-F, 2:25-6:00 PM. Must be 18 years or older. Start immediately. Please submit resume and application to mmschool@millhopper.com    3-14-16-10-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics,
Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Cleaning, Drivers.
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs!
3-18-16-10-14
Local small business is seeking a market-ing intern to help grow the business. Must be well-organized, proficient with website design and social media analytics. Help de-sign a data-based review system to drive improvements. Great part-time work for a student. Please send CV to punchkin23@hotmail.com.    3-25-16-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
ACROSS
1 Where to see
pop-ups
16 Holding capacity
17 Doesn’t do
anything
18 Caning material19 Shows frugality20 N.S. setting21 Word on some
dipsticks
22 Thickening agent
25 ’70s
congresswoman
known for
wearing wide-
brimmed hats
29 15th-century
golfer, probably
33 Likely to skid34 Train puller35 Iolani Palace
locale
36 Search result37 Org. with a
WaterSenseprogram
38 Mad man of film39 Letter-shaped
beam
41 Early 17th-
century pope
43 “If wishes __
horses ... ”
44 Sector45 Liberal46 They’re
frequently tapped
47 Incidentally,
briefly
49 __ Karate: old
aftershave
51 Cricket official54 Certain
summons
57 Security
employees
60 Doesn’t care for61 Prepare for a ball
DOWN
1 First of
September?
2 Cave, say3 Kett of old
comics
4 Crème brûlée
preparation
5 Hambletonian
events6 Deferred
payment
7 Get __ the record
8 Rose team, on
scoreboards
9 Word in a
readiness
metaphor
10 Performing11 Orchard pest12 Dirty rat13 Glare reducer14 Circle’s lack15 NFL linemen22 Talking excitedly23 “The Kiss” was
her last silentfilm
24 Historian Nevins26 Another name for
bluegill
27 Close, as a
parka
28 1960s Interior
secretaryStewart __
30 Alpaca relative31 Orchard Field,
today
32 Spiffy attire40 Engine rebuilding
jobs41 Checked out,
feline-style
42 Jam component
43 Surfing mecca
48 Bun element50 Join the cast of
51 Beverly Hills
sighting
52 Old beehive oven
product
53 Change in
appearance54 Sellecca’s
“Intelligence forYour Life TV” co-
host
55 Still
56 Toque spot
57 Benchmark: Abbr.
58 “__-Willow”: “The
Mikado” song
59 Cleaning product
with two periodsin its name
By Bruce Venzke©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/12/1603/12/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, March 12, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-23-16-20-16Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.FINALLY! A Weight Loss Program Just 
For Teens. Lose weight for GOOD with the 
“World’s BEST Weight Loss Program EVER!” 
Results Guaranteed “Or Your Money Back” 
Here’s How It Works! www.skinnynhot.com    
3-10-16-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#
UF track and field coach Mike 
Holloway is disappointed with how his team performed at the NCAA Indoor Championships. Read the story on pg. 15Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Reports: Two UF football players transferring
According to multiple reports late Sunday night, redshirt sophomore offen-
sive lineman Travaris Dorsey and redshirt senior kicker Austin Hardin are transferring from the University of Florida.FLORIDA'S LOSS TO NO. 1 SEED 
TEXAS A&M ENDED ITS HOPES 
FOR AN NCAA TOURNEY BID.
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
NASHVILLE, Tenn. – Mike White sat slouched 
in a chair outside of Florida’s locker room, look-
ing dejected with a blank stare on his face.
The Gators had just lost their Southeastern 
Conference Tournament quarterfinal game to 
the tournament’s No. 1 seed Texas A&M, 72-66, 
ending their tournament run. White had finished talking to his team in the locker room and was waiting to be taken to the press conference po-dium.
The scene inside the Florida locker room was 
the same. Hushed voices, long faces and any hopes for an NCAA Tournament bid gone.
Instead, the Gators will settle for a No. 2 seed 
in the National Invitation Tournament, where they open play against seventh-seeded North Florida on Tuesday in Jacksonville.
“Obviously, very disappointing for us. Had a 
big opportunity,” White said after Friday’s loss to A&M. “We fought. It’s two days in a row we sat in the (defensive) stance and really grinded out some stops at a pretty high level.”
In Florida’s first game of the SEC Tournament 
on Thursday, the No. 8-seeded Gators defeated No. 9 Arkansas 68-61. UF’s defense, especially in the half court, was as good as it has been all season, holding the Razorbacks to a 36.1 percent shooting performance and leading scorer Moses Kingsley to 10 points.
The Gators set the tone in the win over Ar-
kansas that they would not go down in Nashville without a fight. Center John Egbunu embodied 
that attitude, playing 24 minutes off the bench 
with eight points and nine rebounds – all with a torn ligament in his right thumb.Gators NIT-bound after disappointing SEC tournament
AP Photo
Florida's Kasey Hill drives to the basket against Arkansas's Trey Thompson during the first half of an NCAA college basketball 
game in the Southeastern Conference T ournament in Nashville on Thursday.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Lead-
ing by three points, Jamal Murray dribbled down the clock with 46 seconds left while his teammates watched.
There was no play being run. 
There was no motion or movement or screen setting.
Murray didn’t need it.When the clock hit 18 seconds, 
the freshman guard shot a three-pointer with a hand in his face. It fell through the net.
Soon after, a free throw by No. 
2-seed Kentucky’s Tyler Ulis sealed the 82-77 overtime win over No. 1-seed Texas A&M, giving the Wild-cats their second-straight South-eastern Conference Tournament Championship.
As the final buzzer sounded, 
Ulis threw the basketball into the air before being swarmed by his teammates as confetti fell on the court.
“I might be biased,” coach John 
Calipari said of Ulis, “but he should be one of those guys for Player of the Year, if not the guy. And be-cause he’s 5’9”, everybody, it’s like, how can you do it? But when you look at his numbers and what he’s doing, that’s the Player of the Year.”
Ulis, who was named the SEC 
Tournament’s Most Valuable Play-
er, led Kentucky with 30 points on 
10-of-17 shooting on Sunday and 
took control of UK’s offense each 
time Texas A&M was within strik-
ing distance.
Spurred by two of his three 
steals, the guard was responsible for 15 of Kentucky’s 23 points dur-
ing a 12-minute, 46-second UK run in the second half. 
The first steal led to a fadeaway 
jumper just outside the paint, and 
the second ended in a transition la-
yup off the glass.
“When things broke down, I just 
tried to get the ball … and make things happen for my team,” Ulis Kentucky wins 2nd-straight SEC tourneySEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14
SEE SIDEBAR,  PAGE 14BASEBALL
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Coming into this weekend, Nel-
son Maldonado could count the 
number of hits he had recorded this year on one hand.
In fact, he could do it with just 
two fingers.
But following an offensive out-
burst from the freshman in a series sweep of Harvard, Maldonado now needs both hands.
The Tampa native broke out of 
his 2-for-26 slump to start the sea-son, going 4-for-11 at the dish with four runs scored and five RBIs.For Maldonado, it was a sigh of 
relief.
“I did need this,” he said. “I start-
ed off with a slump, but you know, 
we always get past those.”
Maldonado, whose average more 
than doubled to its current .162 
mark, didn’t waste his hits either. Both hits on Saturday were game changing.
In Florida’s 9-2 win in game one 
of its doubleheader on Saturday, Maldonado crushed his first career 
home run — a three-run shot in the 
sixth inning that broke open a 2-1 game and gave UF breathing room.Weekend sweep helps 
Maldonado break out
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14Ulis was named MVP14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016
“I hate it for you, but you’ll ﬁ  nd 
other ways where you can help your 
teammates,” White said he told Eg-bunu after ﬁ  nding out about the inju-ry, not thinking the center could play. “He said ‘No, coach, I’m playing. I’m ﬁ  ne. I’ll ﬁ  nd a way.'”
Egbunu played another 21 minutes 
against Texas A&M and scored 11 
points, but fouled out late in the sec-
ond half.
Florida’s defense was its strength in 
both games, as it has been all season, 
but the Gators’ offense was boosted by back-to-back scoring outbursts from Kasey Hill. The junior guard scored 18 points in each of the two games and shot 12-for-21 in the tournament. Against Texas A&M, Hill made 6-of-9 free throws, had two assists, two 
steals, one block and just one personal 
foul. 
Redshirt senior Dorian Finney-
Smith’s offensive contributions were also felt. He scored 13 against Arkan-sas and 11 against Texas A&M in his ﬁ  nal SEC Tournament.
Florida has now failed to make to 
NCAA Tournament for two consecu-tive years after reaching the Final Four in 2014. White led his team to a 19-14 record in his ﬁ  rst season at the helm, and now the Gators are headed to the NIT.
“Wherever we’re sent, we’ll be 
excited to play,” White said. “We’ll 
continue to represent Florida and play 
hard and look to improve.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg 13UF hasn't 
gone dancingsince 2014said. “Luckily it did.”
Murray ﬁ  nished second on the 
team with 17 points but made just 
3-of-10 three-pointers, the last be-
ing the most pivotal with the clock 
winding down in overtime.
“Yeah, that was a play we set 
up,” Calipari said jokingly.
“No, it wasn’t,” Murray said 
back.
Texas A&M senior Danuel House 
scored a game-high 32 points and 
grabbed six rebounds, including a clutch three-pointer at the 1:25 mark in the second half that reduced the 
Aggies’ deﬁ  cit to two.
The guard scored four points in 
overtime but couldn’t stiﬂ  e Ken-
tucky’s offensive onslaught. The Wildcats scored 11 points in the 
game’s ﬁ  nal ﬁ  ve minutes.
“All week long, everybody was 
talking about how Kentucky is a 
Final Four team, the way they’ve been playing,” Texas A&M coach 
Billy Kennedy said. “And I said, if 
they’re a Final Four team, then we just showed that we’re a Final Four 
team.”
TAMU senior guard Alex Ca-
ruso ﬁ  nished with 11 points, eight 
rebounds and six assists, but was shut down late in the game by Ulis, 
who was assigned to defend him for 
a majority of the fourth quarter and 
overtime. Caruso went 1-for-3 with a 
turnover in the ﬁ  nal period.
“He’s played three straight days 
about 40 minutes,” Caruso said of 
Ulis, “and he could probably play 
another game right now.”
Both teams are headed to the 
NCAA Tournament, which begins Tuesday. Kentucky will try to ad-
vance to the Final Four for the ﬁ  fth-
straight year, while Texas A&M will 
make its ﬁ  rst tournament appear-
ance since 2010.
“We came together as a team, 
and we fought hard all season. It’s 
been a journey,” Murray said. “We 
trusted coach all the way and trusted 
our point guard. So it’s up to them to 
lead us again.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgSIDEBAR,  from pg 13Kentucky is headed to the NCAA Tournament as a four-seed
Then in the Gators’ ensuing 3-1 
win to close out the series and com-
plete its sweep, Maldonado cracked a scoreless game in the seventh in-
ning with a two-run double.
Maldonado said all he did prior 
to the series was move away from 
the plate a little because he was get-ting jammed, and that made the dif-ference.
But the slump was still mostly in 
his head, Maldonado said.“It’s harder for a hitter to think, 
‘Oh, what am I doing wrong?’ or ‘What do I need to ﬁ  x?’” he said. “But it’s all mental. You just gotta keep going out there every day.”
UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said 
it’s common for ﬁ  rst-year players go through stretches like Maldonado’s.
“I just think as freshmen, they 
kind of get in their own way some-times and maybe overthink some things,” he said.
O’Sullivan is now tasked with 
deciding who will start in left ﬁ  eld with a big week ahead of him in Florida State on Tuesday and Mis-souri this coming weekend to open Southeastern Conference play.
With outﬁ  elder Ryan Larson also 
in a funk to begin the season, Mal-donado looks to be running away 
with the job. He started all three 
games this weekend.
O’Sullivan said he and his staff 
wanted to get an extended look at Maldonado this weekend, rather than seeing him off the bench or in spot starts.
The ninth-year coach liked what 
he saw.“There’s some intangibles that 
he brings,” he said. 
“He plays hard. He’s got one 
gear. He sprints on and off the ﬁ  eld. He always gives you a good effort down the line.”
Despite being impressed by him, 
O’Sullivan wouldn’t say if Maldo-nado had taken over left ﬁ  eld for himself.
“It’s a long season,” O’Sullivan 
said, “but he had a great weekend.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org
BASEBALL,  from pg 13Maldonado hit a decisive two-run double on Saturday
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Nelson Maldonado hits during Florida's 5-4 win over North Florida on Wednesday at McKethan Stadium.  Maldonado recorded four 
hits and ﬁ  ve RBIs in UF's weekend series sweep of Harvard.
Kentucky's Tyler Ulis (3) celebrates with teammates after winning the Southeastern Confer-ence T ournament Championship over top-seeded T exas A&M in Nashville on Sunday. Ulis was named the tournament's most valuable player.
AP PhotoMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
FOOTBALL
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
When the Florida football team 
needed a spark in the run game last 
season, the ball went to Kelvin Tay-lor.
The Gators don’t have that luxury 
anymore.
With Taylor opting to leave for 
the NFL Draft after rushing for 1,035 yards and 13 touchdowns last sea-
son, UF coach Jim McElwain has to 
find out who his production in the 
backfield will come from.
And after the first week of prac-
tice, it looks like he has three candi-
dates in sophomores Jordan Scarlett and Jordan Cronkrite as well as ju-nior college transfer Mark Thomp-son.
Scarlett and Cronkrite combined 
for 338 rushing yards and four touch-
downs on the ground while mostly 
being used to spell Taylor.
Thompson, a 6-foot-2 tailback 
and the No. 5 overall junior college prospect from the 2016 recruiting class, brings a unique combination of size and speed to Florida’s run-ning back stable.
“Here’s the good thing: You see 
some guys competing every day now knowing that when I don’t just have my spot, if that makes sense,” McEl-wain said. “I think the competition is something that is really good for every position.”
Finding McGee’s replacement
While Florida’s offense was riddled with inconsistencies last 
year, tight end Jake McGee always brought a glimmer of hope.
The sixth-year senior hauled in 
41 catches for 381 yards and four touchdowns last year.In looking for McGee’s replace-
ment, McElwain said the group of DeAndre Goolsby, C’yontai Lewis and Moral Stephens has shown im-provements from a year ago.
And the tight ends are ready to make an impact. 
“Jake taught us a lot,” said Gools-
by, who had 17 catches for 277 yards and a touchdown in 2015. “But it’s still just the offense. … As long as we’re out there on one page, I feel like we’ll be fine.”
Offensive line growingTwelve months ago, the Gators 
had just six scholarship offensive linemen in camp.
The starters received plenty of 
reps, but game-type scenarios were 
limited in order to avoid an on-
slaught of injury and fatigue.
But with more than a dozen 
healthy scholarship offensive line-men this time around -- not includ-ing rising sophomore Martez Ivey, who is out for the Spring following postseason shoulder surgery -- the linemen will get both experience and 
rest.
“It was tiring,” junior offensive 
lineman David Sharpe said of Spring 
practice last season. “We had a high-tempo practice, drill to drill to drill.”
Sharpe said Cam Dillard and An-
tonio Riles have stepped up from a leadership perspective and that he has seen growth from younger line-
men such as sophomores Fred John-
son and Tyler Jordan in addition to redshirt freshman Brandon Sandifer. 
After UF’s offensive line gave up 
an NCAA-worst 45 sacks last season — including 13 during a three-game losing streak to end the season — Sharpe knows the group has room to improve in year two under McEl-
wain. 
“We can be much better than we 
were,” Sharpe said. 
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.orgNotebook: Running back competition should be close
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Junior college transfer running back Mark Thompson takes a handoff from freshman quarterback Kyle 
Trask during Wednesday’s practice. 
THREE PLAYERS HIT HOME 
RUNS IN THE GATORS’ SERIES-
CLINCHING WIN. 
By Brian Lee
Sports Writer 
No. 1 Florida and No. 3 Auburn boast two 
of the best pitching staffs in all of softball. 
Neither was on display Sunday evening. 
Thanks to a power surge that included 
home runs from freshman Amanda Lorenz, 
sophomore Nicole DeWitt and senior Taylore 
Fuller, the Gators (26-0, 2-0 Southeastern Con-ference) overcame freshman Kelly Barnhill’s short outing in her first SEC start to defeat the Tigers (22-3, 0-2 SEC) 8-5 in the second game of the series.
With the series-clinching win, Florida has 
now moved to within two victories of the pro-gram-record 28-0 start set by last year’s team. 
“I think you just have to give credit to the 
hitters on both teams,’ UF coach Tim Walton said in a release. “When a pitcher made a mis-take, each hitter made the other team pay.”
From the onset, Barnhill appeared un-
nerved, lasting only three shaky innings and relinquishing four earned runs on four hits. 
Auburn got on the scoreboard first, taking 
a 1-0 lead in the bottom of the first on a solo 
shot.
But the Gators responded promptly in the 
next frame when Fuller hit a line-drive double 
to left, scoring sophomore Janell Wheaton, who singled to open the inning. Florida then took the lead in the third thanks to a two-run home run by Lorenz — her second of the sea-son. 
However, the Tigers quickly bounced 
back, taking advantage of Barnhill’s lack of 
pitch control and scoring three runs in the 
bottom of the inning to take a 4-3 advantage. 
Following a pair of four-pitch walks to Full-
er and Kayli Kvistad in the top of the fourth in-ning, DeWitt crushed a three-run shot to right-center, propelling the Gators back on top, 6-4. 
“To be honest, we went for exactly what 
happened” Walton said of Dewitt’s home run. “We needed it. Based off how their of-
fense was hitting, in that situation, I felt like 
we couldn’t just try for the run. Nicole took a chance and obviously put a great swing on a good pitch.”
Barnhill was lifted in the fourth for soph-
omore Aleshia Ocasio, who proved to be a calming force for the Gators as she earned her ninth win. 
After Ocasio’s entrance into the game, the 
Tigers only mustered three hits and one run. 
“I’m just really happy with the way Aleshia 
(Ocasio) has been able to give us the momen-tum back in these two games,” Walton said. “It’s comforting to have someone come in and do a great job like she’s done.”
The Gators only scored two runs for the 
rest of the game, but they were more than enough.
Fuller’s solo shot in the top of the seventh 
put the final nail in Auburn’s coffin. 
The series will wrap up at 7 p.m. 
@brianlee_17 
blee@alligator.org Offense powers Florida softball 
to 8-5 victory over Auburn 
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Coach Mike Holloway couldn’t hide 
his disappointment after the NCAA Indoor 
Championships.
He knew there were no excuses for his 
talented athletes coming out flat this week-
end.
The Gators came into the champion-
ship in Birmingham, Alabama, with the No. 
1-ranked women’s and the No. 3-ranked men’s teams, both senior-heavy squads ex-pecting to benefit from their leadership and experience.
But after their final indoor meet of the 
season — with two teams laden with elite 
talent — all the Gators accomplished was 
embarrassing their coach.
The men finished in seventh place with 
21 points, failing to make the top three in indoors for the first time since 2008. The women finished in a tie for 14th.
“It was an incredibly disappointing 
weekend, almost to the point of embarrass-ment. It’s one of those things where I’d love 
to tell you what happened,” Holloway said 
in a release after the meet. “I have no clue.”
Both teams lost to Oregon, whose men’s 
team also won the 2015 NCAA Indoor Championship and swept the competition on both sides.
Saturday also marked just the second 
time since 2009 that a Florida men’s athlete  did not win an indoor national champion-
ship.
To add insult to a men’s team that has battled injuries all season, senior Arman 
Hall was unable to compete in the 200-me-ter dash and was forced to sit out on the 4x400 relay due to injury after finishing 
fourth in the 400-meter dash.
But now that a disappointing indoor sea-
son is in the past, the Gators have a clean 
slate as they enter the second part of track 
and field season: Outdoor competition.
Last season, the men’s 
team was the runner up in the NCAA Outdoor 
Championship for the 
third national meet in a row to Oregon. The wom-en finished eighth, with Oregon also claiming the 
title.
With eight weeks and seven meets until 
the conference outdoor championship on May 12, Holloway will try and figure out 
what went wrong this weekend, and make 
sure it doesn’t happen again.
“At the end of the day, bottoming out 
with everybody, I’m the head coach,” Hol-loway said. “I’ve got to figure out what’s wrong. All I can say is that we will be better outdoors. We have to be. 
“We are a much better team than we 
showed. On the men’s side we got a little 
dinged up in places, but we still had to step 
up and do better. I’m just very, very disap-pointed.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgUF ready for new start after 
poor NCAA Indoors showing
Holloway
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2016
Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
The No. 2 Florida lacrosse 
team will play yet another ranked 
team Monday night.
The Gators (8-0) face co-No. 
15 Towson (6-0) at 7:30 at Don -
ald R. Dizney Stadium. 
This will be Florida’s third 
consecutive game against a 
ranked opponent and its fifth in 
the past seven games.
UF coach Amanda O’Leary 
has guided the Gators to a 5-0 
record against ranked opponents 
this season.
The Tigers’ No. 2-ranked de -
fense enters the match allowing 
just under five goals per game. 
The Gators have fared well 
against teams that entered last 
weekend in the top 20 in average 
goals allowed per game. They 
put up 11 goals in an overtime 
victory on March 1 against Syra -
cuse, the No. 19 scoring defense 
in the country.
On Friday, Florida put 16 
shots in the back of the net 
against Boston College’s sixth-
ranked defense. 
Florida will look to counteract the visitor’s fearsome backline 
with its quick and diverse attack 
on goal. The Gators have scored 
a pair of goals within a minute of 
each other on 23 occasions this 
season. They did it four times 
Friday night.
With 109 total goals scored 
this season, UF features five 
double-digit goal scorers and 
six double-digit point scorers. 
In eight games, Florida has seen 
eight players record a combined 
14 hat tricks. 
Junior midfielder Mollie Ste -
vens, who has four hat tricks 
this season, will not be available 
to play against the Tigers. With 
19:08 left in the second half of 
Friday’s game, she hit an op -
posing player with her stick and 
was given a red card, which war -
rants a suspension for both the 
remainder of the current game as 
well as the following game.
The tenacious Towson de -
fense could present a physical 
and scrappy game for the Gators, 
but junior attacker Sammi Bur -
gess said that her team needs to 
reevaluate how it handles team 
that gets under its skin.
“We won’t let it happen again,” she said.
Despite the loss of an obvious 
game-changer, O’Leary said she 
felt that the players who filled 
Stevens’ role did a great job of 
doing so.
Of the three goals scored fol -
lowing Stevens’ red card, two 
were scored by non-starters. 
Freshman midfielder Madi Hall 
scored her third goal of the sea -
son with 4:54 left in the game and 
senior attacker Devon Schneider 
scored her second goal of the 
match less than a minute later. 
With a win over Towson, the 
Gators would go to 9-0 on the 
season and 6-0 against ranked 
opponents, setting themselves 
up to be in the conversation for 
the No. 1 ranking with Maryland, 
which was deemed the unani -
mous top school in the most re -
cent Inside Lacrosse poll. 
But the rankings are the least 
of O’Leary’s worries going into 
tonight’s match of two undefeat -
ed teams.
“That’s not our decision,” 
O’Leary said of the rankings. “...
We just need to start preparing 
for Towson. That’s kinda where 
our mind is right now.”
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.orgUndefeated UF lacrosse to face Towson
Aaron Albright / Alligator Sports
Mollie Stevens prepares to pass the ball during Florida’s 16-6 win over Dartmouth on Feb. 27.
Towson is also undefeated
This Week in 
UF Sports
Today: 
• Lacrosse v. T owson, 6:30 p.m., SEC 
Network +
• Softball @ Auburn, 7 p.m., SEC Network
Tuesday:
• Baseball v. Florida State, 7 p.m., SEC 
Network
• Men’s Basketball v. North Florida, NIT, 9 
p.m., ESPNU
Wednesday:
• Softball v. Winthrop, 6 p.m., SEC 
 Network +
• Women’s Swimming and Diving @ 
Women’s NCAA Championships, All Day
Friday:
• Women’s T ennis @ Ole Miss, 4 p.m.
• Men’s T ennis v. Arkansas, 5 p.m.
• Baseball v. Missouri, 7 p.m. SEC Network +
• Softball v. T ennessee, 7 p.m., ESPNU
• Track and Field @ UCF Invitational, All Day 
• Women’s Swimming and Diving @
Women’s NCAA Championships, All DayThursday:
• Women’s Swimming and Diving @ 
Women’s NCAA Championships, All Day