We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 164 THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016
Alligator Awards
Which Florida team was the best of the 
2015-16 season?, pg. 17Students connect via “Pokemon Go”
One student said she feels safer on campus, pg. 5
Gators Humans vs. Zombies begins
It started at 11:59 p.m. Wednesday, pg. 8Connect with us
Visit alligator.org or @thealligator on Twitter
Joanna White, 19, a Stetson 
University political science sophomore, performs her own piece of poetry, named “When Will We Be Free, ” on Tuesday night at the Civic Media Cen-ter. More than 100 people at-tended the political art event. Artist Village GNV holds an open mic event every first and third Tuesday of the month, according to their Facebook page.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
HE DONATED THROUGH
GIFT OF LIFE.
By Ethan Bauer
Staff Writer
Somewhere in the U.S., a 52-year-old man 
sat waiting, hoping a random person some-
where in the world would save his life.
Leukemia was killing him, and he was in 
need of a bone marrow transplant — without 
it, he would likely die. 
Meanwhile, in suburban Seattle, an un-
known number appeared on the phone of Mi-
chael Cizek, a 20-year-old UF ﬁ  nance junior. 
The caller told Cizek, who had previously 
signed up with Gift of Life, there was a 30 per-cent chance he was a match for the man in need of bone marrow. 
Cizek said his father is 
only one year younger than the man who was in need.
“I can’t imagine a world 
without my dad right now,” he said. “So if I have the op-portunity to save someone else’s dad, that’s really cool, and I hope that if someone 
were in the same shoes as me, that they’d be willing to save my dad.”
Cizek, who served as the student “Mr. Two 
Bits” before UF’s 2015 football game against East Carolina, visited a local clinic to have his arm pricked and his blood siphoned for further testing. 
“I was kind of curious if this was all worth it,” he said. “Like, man, all these needles and it 
probably won’t happen.”
Only about one in 430 registry members on 
the Be The Match Registry will donate, accord-
ing to the organization’s website, and Cizek may have faced similar odds when he was picked by Gift of Life. 
“I really didn’t think that I would be a 
match with anyone,” he said. 
Cizek and his mother embarked on their 
cross-country journey June 8, a day before his procedure. As a deeply Christian family, they turned to God for strength. 
But the focus of Cizek’s prayers was not 
himself but rather the man whom he may nev-er meet, but whose life he may save. “God teaches us to give to the poor,” he 
said, “and in this instance, it’s not as literal as money, but this man was very poor in health. He’s not doing good, and without any treat-ment, he’s not going to stick around.”
On the night before his procedure, Cizek 
laid awake as his 5:30 a.m. wake up time ap-proached.
Staring into the darkness of his room at the 
Georgetown Suites Hotel, he wondered if the 
procedure would be worth the trouble, and 
whether it would even work. 
Cizek said he remembers wondering, 
“‘What is this going to do for this man?’” 
Cizek watched a ﬂ  urry of doctors and nurses  UF student donates bone marrow to save a life
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Shortly after the UF executive branch 
announced a new Chick-ﬁ  l-A expansion, a 
group of UF graduate students sent an email to President Fuchs.
They outlined concerns about expanding 
an organization that “has repeatedly made national news for their open stance against the LGBT community,” according to their email. 
The email also said they “ﬁ  nd it complete-
ly unacceptable our Student Government, 
which is funded by student fees, used their 
time to create a promotional video for this expansion.” 
The email was sent when President Fuchs 
was out of ofﬁ  ce, so, as of press time, he has yet to release an ofﬁ  cial response.UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said UF 
supports all members of its community and expects its vendors do the same. She also said most employees at the Chick-ﬁ  l-A cam-pus locations are UF students.
Sikes said SG ofﬁ  cials have been trying to 
expand Chick-ﬁ  l-A for at least 5 years, and the expansion was approved this year by the Food Service Advisory Committee, which is made up of faculty and students.
Campus food services are all under Ara-
mark, which operates under the name “Gator Dining Services” at UF.“Gator Dining will not comment on the 
business practices of other companies, so we will not defend Chick-ﬁ  l-A or state their posi-tion,” said Jill Rodriguez, the senior district marketing manager at Gator Dining Services.
Rodriguez also said Aramark was named 
one of the Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality for two years in a row and earned a perfect score on the 2016 Corporate Equal-ity Index, administered by the Human Rights Campaign.
Student Body President Susan Webster 
 Students react, criticize expansion of Chick-ﬁ  l-A on campusSEE BONE,  PAGE 4
SEE CHICK-FIL-A,  PAGE 4Cizek
They said it was anti-LGBTPOLITICAL 
EXPRESSION•   •   •
•   •   •Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  96° LOW  72°
WHAT’S HAPPENING
Gator Gears
UF’s student bike rental program, 
Gator Gears, is expanding for Fall 2016 and is now open to all regis-
tered UF students. All Gator Gears 
bikes include a basket, rear rack, 
helmet, U-lock and free mainte-
nance. Rentals can be reserved on a semester-by-semester basis, 
with rental fees starting at $40 
for the first semester, and $30 for 
each subsequent semester. Bikes 
reserved for Fall will be available for pick up during the first week 
of classes. For more information 
about the program and to sign 
up, visit bikes.ufl.edu/gator-gears 
or call 352-392-7578.
Unity Assembly
As of recent, there has been a 
number of tragic occurrences 
happening globally that have shocked each of us regardless 
of our race or culture. In light 
of such events, the Volunteers 
for International Student Affairs 
(VISA) will be hosting a Unity Assembly on July 29 in co-spon-
sorship with GatorNights at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom from 
7:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. We hope 
to use the opportunity to increase 
awareness of these recent tragic events and how we can come 
together to share an appreciation 
for the cultures and differences 
that make us unique. 
GatorNights: The Jungle Book This week’s GatorNights event 
is themed “The Jungle Book,” so swing over as we show the 2016 remake of this Disney classic. The event will run from 8 p.m. to 1 
a.m. and the movie showings will be at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. This night will offer more than 
just bare necessities as we feature Disney Karaoke, a jungle photo 
booth and free food. You can take flight with Mowgli on LED Power Jump on the North Lawn 
or paint your own personal flow-er pot. Midnight Munchies will 
be nachos this week, so come hungry! GatorNights is "Always 
Friday, Always Free" for UF stu-dents with their Gator 1 Cards at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current students to participate 
and are allowed to bring a maxi-
mum of one guest to the event.  
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mgettenberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Alligator Staff, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto, 
  Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Britney Jenkins, Juan Londono, 
  Alexandra LeCras, Christian Mayorga,
  Caroline Rhoades, Jeffrey Romer, 
  Mathews Silva, Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 164
THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
CAMPUS
By Marina Masterson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Monday through Friday, hun-
dreds of people gather on the Plaza 
of the Americas to stand in line for 
Krishna Lunch.
Krishna Lunch has begun fea-
turing foods grown organically in 
a local garden, maintained by the 
group’s members.
In mid-Spring, Krishna devotees 
began planting a garden about 20 
minutes north of UF’s campus, said Dhristadyumna “Dennis” Das, the 
34-year-old temple commander for 
the Gainesville Krishna House.
The garden, located at 13700 U.S. 
Highway 441, had been empty for 
about eight years until the owner of-
fered the land to Gainesville’s Hare Krishnas, Das said.
Das is known for serving bever-
ages at Krishna Lunch, calling out 
the names of those who pass by.
Using the property, about three-
fourths of an acre in size, the group 
has planted lettuce, kale, okra, zuc-
chini, cucumber, eggplant and more, 
Das said.
“Most people don’t know where 
their food comes from,” Das said. “This is local and fresh.”
For a few weeks during Summer 
A, 70 to 90 percent of the lettuce served at Krishna Lunch was grown in the garden, Das said.
He said organic eggplants 
will soon be ready to be served with lunches every Tuesday until November. 
Diners may not know where 
Krishna Lunch currently gets its pro-duce, but that has not stopped some students.
“I trust them enough to know 
they have good ingredients,” said Aria Nguyen, an 18-year-old UF di-etetics sophomore who said she eats 
Krishna Lunch every Wednesday.
Nguyen said she loves the healthy 
food options at Krishna Lunch, but 
that’s not why she enjoys the experi-ence so much.
“The food is the whole reason I 
came, and I stayed for the people,” Nguyen said.
She said she hopes the garden 
expands and produces more fresh ingredients, as more students would be likely to eat Krishna Lunch.
“Krishna changed me,” she said. 
“I have a different view on food, the 
environment and animals now.” 
Currently, the ingredients are de-
livered by Cheney Brothers and Tay-
lor Farms, Das said. 
He said the garden will not raise 
the price of Krishna Lunch. It may actually be cheaper to grow organic produce than to purchase it from a distributor.
Das said the hope is students will 
start to drive north to the garden to help grow the foods they will even-tually eat.
Part of the Hare Krishnas philoso-
phy is an agrarian and sustainable lifestyle, reflected in the farming, he said.
“Simple living, high thinking,” 
Das said. “Yeah, definitely quote that.”Krishna Lunch begins serving its own organic produce
Courtesy to the Alligator
Krishna Lunch now features foods grown organically in a local garden, maintained by the group’s members. 
It started in mid-Spring. Organic eggplants will soon be ready to be served every Tuesday until November.
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016
when he entered an operating room at MedStar 
Georgetown University Hospital.
A mask went over his mouth, and the next 
thing he remembers is waking up, a slight pain radiating from the holes in his bones. 
“Now we have to pray that it works,” his 
mother remembers him saying.
Cizek is left with a pair of bumps on his 
back and the urge to find out what happened to the man who needed his bone marrow. In reality, the surgery may have failed, and 
Cizek would be asked to donate again if the man survived. 
On the other hand, the surgery might have 
been a success, replacing the bone marrow he lost during chemotherapy. 
“To be able to give life back to someone’s 
father, someone’s husband, someone’s co-worker, someone’s friend is quite an amazing experience,” he said.BONE,  from pg. 1He’s unsure if the man is OK
said she did not know about the email to 
President Fuchs regarding Chick-fil-A.
“If you have a problem with a company, 
then I would advise not to use them, and it’s the discretion of that particular person,” Webster said. “I think that at the end of the day, it’s been something the students have 
asked for. It’s not bringing Chick-fil-A to 
campus; it’s already here, but extending the 
options that you are now offered.”The chain’s expansion on campus will 
be funded by Gator Dining, but the exact cost has yet to be determined. Renovations should begin during Summer 2017, Rodri-guez said.
She said Chick-fil-A and the P.O.D. Mar-
ket in the Hub are expected to close once Au Bon Pain opens in Newell Hall in May 2017, and Chick-fil-A will expand into the P.O.D. Market.  It should reopen Fall 2017.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgCHICK-FIL-A,  from pg. 1Renovations start Summer 2017ALZHEIMER’S IS THE 
SIXTH LEADING CAUSE OF 
DEATH IN THE U.S.
By Maria Velandia
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two professors and two students 
will represent UF at a conference 
Sunday to contribute to research for Alzheimer’s disease. 
Alzheimer’s is the sixth leading 
cause of death in the U.S. and the only top-10 leading cause of death that cannot be prevented or cured, according to a press release from the Alzheimer’s Association.
The team of UF professors and 
students will be among the 5,000 at-
tending the Alzheimer’s Association 
International Conference in Toronto, which features scientists, researchers and healthcare providers, according to the release.
“I am looking forward to attending 
a day-long session on the use of tech-nologies, like iPads, monitoring cam-eras, queuing devices, to help people with Alzheimer’s disease function in their preferred environments,” Dr. 
Glenn Smith, a professor of clinical 
and health psychology who is attend-ing the conference, wrote in an email.
The conference begins Sunday 
and will run through July 28.
Sadaf Milani, an epidemiology 
graduate student who is also going, will be presenting a poster called “Perceptions of Research and Partici-pation among Community Members Who Report a History of Dementia.”
“With the prevalence of dementia 
increasing, participation in research will be needed to enhance knowledge surrounding dementia,” Milani wrote in an email.  
She said research found commu-
nity members reporting dementia were very interested in participating in health research studies.
Meredith Wicklund, an assistant 
professor of neurology, and Brenda 
Moore, a biological science lab mem-
ber, are also attending.
UF professors, students to attend Alzheimer’s conference
•   •   •THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Nicole Kocian
Alligator Contributing Writer
Robert Cody, 22, recently met his 
neighbor of two years for the first time 
— all thanks to “Pokemon Go.”
Cody, a UF mechanical engineer -
ing senior, said the game encouraged him to hang out with people on his street he’s never met before. 
Although he’s in competition with 
one of his roommates, he said he likes 
partnering with friends who are on 
his team so they can “take a gym” together.
“It’s competitive,” he said. “Just to have fun and see who can have the better Pokemon.”
Areas like University Auditorium 
and Little Hall have been crowded with groups of up to 150 gamers at night. Cody said it was much the same the other night they came. 
Cody and his friends were back 
for yet another night of catching the creatures.
“We just put lures here, and a lot 
of people came,” he said. “People are actually leaving their apartments for once.”
Cody’s friend Fred Velez, a 
22-year-old UF biology senior, said it has connected him with new friends who also play the game.
“I’m seeing the same strangers a 
couple times, and we’re starting to have conversations like ‘Do you want to come along with us? We don’t mind,’” Velez said.
He said the game is nostalgic for 
him but also encourages people to have conversations with one another.
“You don’t feel like you’re a 
stranger to someone as much,” he said.
During Fall, he said, “forceful peer 
pressure” will make people who pre
-
viously didn’t care about the game download it even if just for a short time.
“It’s a quick, easy game to get ad
-
dicted to,” he said.
Joe Strohfus, 62, was visiting his 
daughter Kim, a 19-year-old UF nu -
tritional sciences junior, when he de -
cided to give the game a try.
“This place is Pokemon-rich,” he 
said.
Kim said she noticed a whole other 
group of students coming out to play 
the game, so she decided it was im -
portant for her dad to experience.  
“It’s way better than watching 
Netflix,” she said.She said the game has also created 
a safer campus. 
“I would never go for a run past 
10 o’clock, but the other night I went 
around the Pokestops,” she said. “I would’ve never done that without knowing that there was so many peo
-
ple out here.”
Kim and her dad said the game 
has also served as its own kind of tour, because many Pokestops are ac
-
tually landmarks on campus, like the concrete bicycle near the architecture building.
“We would’ve never figured out 
all the different statues,” Kim said.‘Pokemon Go’ connects students, encourages friendshipsBy Nancy Massani 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
For every bottle of Dasani wa-
ter purchased through Aug. 31 at Subway, the restaurant will do-nate 30 cents to help build a well in Kenya. 
The program, called “Fresh Water 4 All,” began July 11.
“Fresh Water 4 All” is more of a 
local campaign, said Stacy Kader, 
the vice president of Asher Agen-
cy, which manages the promotion for Gainesville Subway locations.  
All Gainesville locations are 
participating, except for those on campus, according to an on-cam-pus Subway employee who de-clined to give his name.
“A lot of people don’t get fresh 
water,” said Andrew Lee, an em-ployee at the Subway located at 1005 W. University Ave. “It’s a good thing that money is being donated to provide the people in Kenya with fresh water.” For 30 cents, one person can be 
supplied clean drinking water for one month. Subway committed to 
a total donation of $125,000. 
Subway partnered with World 
Vision, a non-governmental pro-
vider of clean water, for the cam-paign.  
World Vision can design and install a solar-powered water sys-
tem with local partners with the 
full $125,000, according to a press release from Subway. 
“We’re really excited to be 
doing this,” Kader said. “It’s not every day that you get to have a huge impact in people’s lives and actually save lives.”
Subway campaign aims to alleviate global water shortageThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Sit down for the Republican National Circus
The lights were hot on a stage that could 
barely fit the ringleader’s ego. Inside the tent, a frenzied audience, crying 
out with ayes and nays, hollered when 
the silhouette of a man awkwardly 
moseyed on stage. With a flourish of hand gestures, albeit tiny ones made with tiny fin-
gers, he grandly introduced his prized lion-
ess: Melania Trump. And so went the first night of the “Republican National Circus.” On the second night, dozens of entertainers, a UFC president and a pro golfer among them, paraded 
to the stage to excite an audience thirsty for Democratic 
blood and a Republican victory. Meanwhile, spectators at home and commentators on TV marveled at their performances, a series of acts that would make the 
Ringling Bros. proud. 
During this presidential election season, America 
watched dozens of sideshow contenders juggle their 
way through the Republican primaries, but ultimately, the ringleader emerged: Donald J. Trump. With a big 
ego, and insecurity about his fingers, Trump amazed 
his audience with the brash flick of his tongue, the golden sheen of his mane and his pronunciation of the word “huge.” It’s true — Trump is captivating to 
watch. His gesticulating is mesmerizing, and his notori-
ety in business cannot be denied — though, his success is up for debate. Every day more drama surrounding his run for office emerges, and his audience gobbles it up, analyzing every one of his words up to its curlicue. 
But what we’re watching is an act. Just like The 
Apprentice was a facade to promote the Trump brand, the televised debates and now the national convention are more opportunities for him to obtain even greater 
celebrity.His circus troupe is impressive as well: a 
UFC president, a pro golfer, a hotheaded gov-
ernor and the Speaker of the House. All of 
these celebrities are coming forward to de-
fame the Clinton name with volatile chants and speeches devoid of substance. Chris Christie riled up the audience like a game 
show host of Guilty or Not Guilty: Hillary 
Clinton edition. The audience yelled in uni-son “Guilty!” to each one of his charges. Dis-traction, all of it.
Not once while I watched the “Republican National 
Circus” did I hear a concrete plan for this country, just chants and heckles. Like a magic trick where you lose track of the ball, the Republicans’ misdirection from the high stakes of this presidency is deceiving.  
The state of this country is fragile, quivering from 
terrorist attacks on domestic soil and abroad, question-ing the leadership that it will fall into and reacting with 
outrage to police shooting citizens and the shooting 
of police. We need a leader, not an entertainer. Either Trump needs to get serious and lay down a concrete plan, or I’m throwing peanuts at the stage. America wants a refund. I want my Facebook feed back.
Emma Green is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Thursdays.It’s been a crazy week, dear readers. Between that non-
sensical WWE “Whose-nominee-is-this-guy-anyway?” death-
match in Cleveland, Ohio, and Summer classes, it’s no won-der some of you might feel a bit overwhelmed. In times like these, kicking back and listening to some tunes might be all you need. Might we recommend to you some hot summer ’16 releases like “Dark Necessities” by the Melania Trump Chili Peppers or perhaps “Bored to Death” by Melania-182?
Darts & Laurels
We’ve hinted at the Republican National Convention, and 
all of its galore is featured throughout today’s columns. But we have to take a minute and seriously address the convention and the media’s sensationalized coverage of it. We’re looking at you CNN — well, at least one ad you published we feel characterizes a broader issue.
A 30-second CNN ad promoting the RNC continues to ﬂ  oat 
around social media, and it does more to shine the spotlight on Donald Trump than anything else. “You’ve heard his every word,” the video text reads as various controversial Trump clips play in the background. “You’ve talked about him with everyone: with family, with friends, with total strangers. So, what will he say… on his biggest stage yet?”
This is the sort of sensationalist hype the media gave to 
Trump that inadvertently helped him win the nomination to begin with, even when countless pundits and experts tout-ed that we would never see this day come. Yet, we continue to make the same mistake: a dart to these big name media outlets who, despite their resources, continue without fail to abuse their addiction to ratings, no matter how much it damages the American people and the state of our politics.
There are so many real issues that should be canvassing 
our news feed. There’s a possibility U.S.-led proxies in Syria bombed and killed 56 civilians in an attempt to hit Islamic State group forces, and President Erdogan in Turkey’s clamp-ing is going after teachers and journalists after the recent failed coup attempt — just to name a few issues. If-it-bleeds-it-leads journalism isn’t good enough, not in these times.
Literally focusing on any other issue would better inspire 
the will of our country. In fact, we’re going to do just that. Here is “anything else”:
Wake up your middle school emo-rock self, if you even part-
ed ways with that stage of yourself, for My Chemical Romance doth returned. If your news feed hasn’t been bombarded with fan girl posts yet, MCR released a short video set to their hit song “Welcome to the Black Parade,” with the date Sept. 23, 2016. Within a few short hours, viewership exploded to over 5 million views, as of press time, and still climbs higher.
A laurel for MCR: Who would’ve guessed the band that 
basically established the 2000s trend of tight black T-shirts from Hot Topic, middle school mascara and pop-emo punk on the radio would, a decade later, be the most positive, uplift-ing thing in the news? That just goes to show how grim these past few months have been.
And lastly, continuing the tradition of discussing “literally 
anything else (other than Trump),” yesterday marked the 47th anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing, when humans ﬁ  rst set foot on the moon. July 20, 1969: the day that literally in-spired the entire country — on a political level, on a techno-logical level, on a social level.
And so, we give a laurel to the three astronauts — Mi-
chael Collins, Buzz Aldrin and Melania Trump Armstrong — who gave us the moon and so famously quipped, “One small step for man, one giant leap for mankind.” We need more space missions like that: #moreNASAfunding.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOREmma Green
opinions@alligator.org
“During this presidential election season, 
America watched dozens of sideshow 
contenders juggle their way through 
Republican primaries, but ultimately, the 
ringleader emerged: Donald J. Trump.”Niantic Inc. released “Poke-
mon Go” two weeks ago, and the free game has add-ed $7.5 billion to Nintendo’s market value. The game has 
surpassed Facebook and Twitter in daily active users. However, as it can no longer be played sitting in the corner, walking around with a phone glued to one’s face yields some danger.
Although fervor and opposition 
for "Pokemon Go" seem to match one another, no one can deny this game does 
what almost all other video games prevent: 
getting out of the house.
Distances traveled have led to many us-
ers complaining of sore legs and intense sun-burns: common symptoms associated with the phenomenon that is exercise. The easy prescription includes light stretching and sunscreen, but there are health dangers that aren’t as easy to mend.
In the same way selﬁ  e stick-related injuries 
and deaths made last year’s news, “Pokemon Go”-related injuries will likely ﬁ  ll headlines throughout the coming months. According to The Washington Post, numerous accounts of player injuries have surfaced. In the past week, two men chased Pokemon off a cliff in San Diego, California, and a 15-year-old girl was hit by a car after the game took her across a busy Pittsburg street. It’s easy to  
get caught up in this new game, 
but players cannot forget: No game is worth endangering their lives. 
In O’Fallon, Missouri, armed 
robbers lured “Pokemon Go” us-ers by setting up a Pokestop within the game. And right here in Florida, two teens were shot at when play-
ing the game outside a person’s house. Ac-
cording to USA Today, the homeowner mis-
took the gamers as robbers when he thought he heard one of the teens ask the other, “Did you get anything?” In actuality, the teen asked the other, “Did you catch him (the Poke-mon)?”
It is no coincidence that an augmented re-
ality game caught the hearts of millions dur-ing a period of tragedy. “Pokemon Go” gives 
gamers a mental break from the harsh reality 
around us. They should just play with caution so they don’t become a part of the news cycle. 
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical engi-
neering sophomore. His column appears on Thursdays.ColumnTHURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
Licensed No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients with coupon
T     he past few weeks have been troublesome for our country. Rather than add my voice to the chorus (read: cacophony) of those opinionating, I chose 
to listen, weighing the implications of cyber grief and outrage.
Many lamented our state of af-
fairs has degraded so profoundly and wondered how we could have gotten to this point. My response is the following: How could we not have? Following hundreds of years of systemic oppression of people of color, is it 
now coming as a surprise we have reached, 
and not for the ﬁ  rst time, a breaking point?
In a utopian vision, such as the disingenu-
ous one of the aloof racists who wrote our Con-stitution, all lives do theoretically matter, but we know in our lived American reality this is not the case. As George Orwell wrote so accu-rately, “All animals are equal, but some ani-mals are more equal than others.”
A quick look at U.S. history and our chaotic 
present informs any disinterested observer that America’s status quo entails various intersec-tions of oppression, whereby certain groups are afforded differing degrees of “mattering.”
We know afﬂ  uent, hetero, white lives are those which by default matter, which is why no one bothers to even say “White lives matter.”
To say “Blue lives matter” is in 
my eyes equally absurd, because 
the police as a function of the state 
do not have personhood; they are just an extension of the solidiﬁ  ca-tion of the power of the monied classes. Furthermore, to say “blue lives matter” is to glorify the vio-lence of the state.
Blue lives are lives in the capac-
ity that corporations are people; both present 
illusions of personhood of money and power 
in society. Ultimately we must come to the ac-ceptance that money and power are inherently inhuman and also dehumanizing: Hence, no-tions that “blue lives matter” and “corporations are people” must be discarded in the waste bin of history.
No amount of equivocation or white tears 
can change the reality that we are living in a 
virulently racist and despicably bellicose coun-
try. Hence, I end with a phrase which is an af-front but should not be: Black lives matter!
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF lin-
guistics master’s student. His column appears on Thursdays.Column
Catch those Pokemon — with caution Whose life really matters?
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.org
Joshua
Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org8  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016
By Demi Wolfe
Alligator Contributing Writer
Juan Oleas, a 24-year-old UF as-
tronomy graduate, ran across campus 
as fast as he could, lungs burning and 
legs cramping.
At 11:59 p.m. Wednesday, Gators 
Humans vs. Zombies, the game in 
which students experience a simu-
lated on-campus zombie apocalypse, 
began. 
The 24-hour, four-day game started 
with a midnight mission in which all 
players started as humans, except for 
the original zombie. Humans defend 
themselves by “stunning” zombies 
with Nerf guns and balled-up socks, and zombies “infect” humans by tag-
ging them.
The organization gives each player 
a bandana, a Nerf gun, socks and a 
kill ID, which is used to register deaths on the GHvZ website. The supplies 
are funded by Student Government, said Maddox Corcoran, the 20-year-
old economics junior and treasurer of GHvZ.
According to the group’s website, 
Brad Sappington and Chris Weed cre-ated the game in 2005 at Goucher Col-
lege in Baltimore. In 2010, UF political 
science major Jesse Schmitt brought it to UF, Corcoran said.
He said attendance has decreased 
over the years, but more than 100 
players are expected for this week’s 
game.
Jennifer “Ferby” Cremer, a 20-year-
old digital arts and sciences engineer-ing junior and the group’s president, 
said camaraderie keeps the organiza-
tion running. 
“The reason you come is because 
you like Nerf guns,” Cremer said. “The reason you stay is because of friends.”
Corcoran expressed a similar senti-
ment.
“The only way you can lose is to 
not play,” he said. “At the end, it’s about all the stuff you went through. The friends you’ve lost. The friends 
you’ve fought with. That’s what keeps you coming back.”  Gators Humans vs. Zombies begins mock apocalypse
Alligator File Photo
David Ayers chases Maddox Corcoran, a 20-year-old UF economics junior, on Turlington Plaza 
on Oct. 12, 2015. Gators Humans vs. Zombies began its four-day Summer game on Wednesday.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Sen. Macey Wilson (Fine Arts) 
and Sen. Max Stein (Graduate-01) 
objected to a bill about Student Gov-
ernment debates at Tuesday’s Senate 
meeting, causing the bill to come to a 
debate, then a vote.
It would require the supervisor of 
elections to preside over the Student Government debate during the Spring 
election cycle. However, if only one 
party has a full qualiﬁ  ed executive 
slate — candidates for president, vice 
president and treasurer — then the 
SOE isn’t required to host the debate. The 700 Code Revisions Bill is 
sponsored by Senate President Jenny Clements and Senate President Pro-Tempore Smith Meyers.
It also states that each political 
party’s executive candidates shall attend the debate or they’ll be on 
grounds for disqualiﬁ  cations.
In addition, the bill says the SOE 
shall make all reasonable efforts to 
provide a public recording and tran-
script of the debate within 48 hours after it ends. 
Before the ofﬁ  cial Senate debate, 
Sen. Wilson and Sen. Stein spoke 
during the public debate about their 
concerns with the bill.Sen. Wilson didn’t agree with the 
SOE being in charge of the debates 
because the supervisor may become overwhelmed with the amount 
of work, causing something to go wrong.
Sen. Wilson said she believes 
it’s unfair that if only one full party 
shows up, the SOE doesn’t have to 
have a debate, because this could 
exclude independent candidates run-
ning for ofﬁ  ce.
Sen. Stein said he was ﬁ  ne with 
the SOE monitoring the debate but had an issue with the disqualiﬁ  cation 
clause, because those failing to attend 
the debate have not sworn an oath and should have the right to protest a debate by not attending. 
“This is highly irregular; I can’t 
think of a single organization that re-quires attendance at a debate, includ-ing the U.S. government,” Sen. Stein 
said.
During the ﬂ  oor debate, only Sen. 
Stein and Sen. Wilson spoke from the con side. 
Sen. Kylie Werk (District A-06) 
spoke for pro. She said the word 
“shall” in the disqualiﬁ  cation clause is 
not a deﬁ  nite word and up for inter-
pretation by the Supreme Court, which 
would decide if a candidate should be 
disqualiﬁ  ed for not attending. She also said parties are only re-
quired to attend the debate, not to 
speak, thus giving them a right to protest with silence. She said the SOE 
is nonpartisan, making him or her a fair host for the debate.
Sen. Isaac Netzer (Liberal Arts-
02), Allocations Chair Austin Cham-poux and Information and Commu-
nications Chair Jackie Phillips also 
spoke for pro.
When put to a vote, the “ayes” 
were a large majority. The bill will 
move on to second reading at next 
week’s meeting. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org Senate 700 Code Revisions sparks debate on the ﬂ  oorKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Avenue writer interviews rapper Logic
He spoke to Logic at a show in T ampa on Sunday, pg. 12THE SHOW WILL BE 
PRODUCED FOR 
TELEVISION AND 
THE INTERNET.
By Chase Granger
Avenue Writer
No. 9 Productions, Inc. is film-
ing the pilot episode for a new 
show based in Gainesville on Sat-
urday at the Squitieri Studio The-
atre at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. 
The show, entitled “Cypress 
Sessions,” will feature interviews and live performances from Gainesville and Florida-based musicians. It will be produced for TV and the web. 
The pilot episode focuses 
on Michael Claytor, who has been writing and performing his own music since he moved to 
Gainesville for school in 2005. 
“I’m super honored to be a 
part of this,” Claytor, 29, said. 
“Especially to be in the very first episode.” 
Producer Bill Bryson said No. 
9 Productions, Inc. is a “non-profit company with a mis-
sion of improving and enhancing 
the fine and cultural arts in the 
community.”
The idea from the show came 
from “Austin City Limits,” a 
show with a similar plot that 
has been broadcasted by PBS for more than 40 years, Bryson said.
Bryson said he hopes WUFT 
will pick up the series after the 
pilot episode is produced. A web-
site will also be created for the series. 
“It’s a really unique opportu-
nity because this is something that hasn’t really been done in Gainesville before,” Bryson said. 
The series is expected to have 
six to eight episodes in the first 
season. Bryson said he already 
has other artists in mind that he would like to feature.
“We’re going to try and get 
some bigger acts,” Bryson said, “but it’s particularly important to me to highlight these local artists that haven’t had as much expo-sure.” 
The filming Saturday will 
consist of a live performance by Michael Claytor accompanied by other local artists, creating a band called Michael Claytor and 
His Friends.
Doors open at 7 p.m., and the 
performance starts at 8 p.m.
Christopher Brown is hosting 
the show and will be interview-
ing audience members before the performance begins. These inter-views will likely be included in the pilot episode, Bryson said.  
Claytor said the band will per-
form songs from both of his al-bums and brand new music he has recently written. 
“Whether or not people like 
my music, I think Cypress Ses-sions will be really cool for Gainesville,” Claytor said. THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
UF student creates “Pokemon Go” bar crawl
It will be in Midtown on Friday night, pg. 10Courtesy to the Alligator
Michael Claytor (middle) and His Friends will be  featured on the pilot episode of the new music show “Cypress Sessions. ”
Courtesy to the Alligator
Tickets for the show are now sold out on the UF Performing Arts website. Doors open at 7 
p.m. for the 8 p.m. show.
 New music show to film in GNV
MUSIC
“It’s a really unique 
opportunity because this is 
something that hasn’t really 
been done in Gainesville 
before.” 
Bill Bryson
producer for No. 9 Productions, Inc.10  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016
By RaSheba Jones
Avenue Writer 
Gotta catch ‘em all.
A UF student and local app creators have 
collaborated to form a bar crawl through Mid-town to catch Pokemon on Friday night. 
“Pokemon Go” launched mid-July and has 
taken over many crazed fans.
Alex Everitt, a UF finance sophomore, and 
his friends were hanging out when one friend got a social media notification about a Poke-mon bar crawl in Orlando.
“We started talking about it a little more 
and he said, ‘well, why don’t we just do one here?’” Everitt said.He created a Facebook page for the event, 
and it quickly grew to more than one thou-sand people.
“I was like, ‘well gosh darn,’” Everitt said.The event quickly grew and caught the at-
tention of the Fomo app creators, Jimmy Par-enteau and James Berger.
Fomo, which stands for ‘fear of missing 
out,’ is a free app that promotes bar specials and events in the Gainesville area, said Par-enteau, a UF alumnus and one of the app’s creators. Fomo, available through the App Store and Google Play, shows real-time drink deals at both Midtown and downtown bars, and it allows users to just show their phone to a bartender to get the discount. Parenteau knew Everitt wasn’t partnered 
or associated with any bars and inquired about making the event available to their app users.
“We reached out to ooZoo, Copper Mon-
key and Tatu,” Parenteau said. “OoZoo has a gym takeover — there is a gym between oo-
Zoo and Wesley Chapel Church.”
The bar crawl will start at ooZoo bar Fri-
day at 10 p.m. The bar will be doing specials 
for the teams in either the blue or red team. If your team wins, it’s $2, and if your team loses, it’s $4.
“It will be a really busy event,” said Paren-
teau, who expects UF students from all areas of campus, including Greek life and multicul-tural clubs, to come out and play. There is even an expectation it will expand beyond the university and attract those from all over town, with more than 1,000 people interested on Facebook and more than 300 going. 
“Just by the basic response, we have peo-
ple from different generations. We have peo-
ple from younger generations to middle age 
people,” Everitt said. 
There is no map for the event. However, 
the Fomo app will keep attendees updated with different deals at bars throughout the night.
To maximize the gaming (and drinking) 
experience, Everitt said, “I recommend people go and buy portable chargers.”
‘Pokemon Go’ bar crawl to take over MidtownBy Samuel Figuera
Avenue Writer
Dream Quilt Production Company will 
be hosting the Zombieville Variety Show 
and Film Fest at the Atlantic this Saturday. 
The show will feature many different per-
formers, ﬁ  lms and even a training session 
for those who want to prepare for the zom-
bie apocalypse.
“It’s been in the works for a while,” 
said Rachel Wayne, the managing director 
of Dream Quilt.
“The idea is, it’s critical in these trou-
bled times to be prepared for anything, in-
cluding the zombie apocalypse we have all been warned of.”
Classic zombie ﬁ  lms will be shown at 
the event such as “Night of The Living 
Dead” and “White Zombie,” which will 
teach viewers about the history of zombies 
and their relation to our world.
After the zombie ﬁ  lms, which will in-
clude some local indie zombie shorts, survival skills will be taught. One of these 
skills includes teaching people how to cre-ate zombie makeup to help them blend in 
during the apocalypse. 
If the preparation doesn’t come in 
handy to would-be survivors, then there is 
no need to worry. 
“We’ll have zombie variety performers 
on hand to entertain us in case we don’t 
make it out of the Atlantic,” Wayne, 30, 
said.
The variety performers will include un-
dead burlesquers, musicians, puppeteers 
and performance artists. Some perform-ers will even be taking on the roles of 
popular characters in the zombie universe, 
such as Michonne from “The Walking Dead” and Ash Williams from “The Evil 
Dead.” A zombie band led by Ruby Rap-
ture will also be featured.
As for what to expect for the theme, 
Wayne said, “There will be blood.” The 
Atlantic will also be modiﬁ  ed as needed 
for the survival training. 
A wide range of people usually attend 
Dream Quilt Production Company events for their alternative entertainment. Wayne 
said anyone who is interested in weird sto-
ries would greatly enjoy the show. As for the actual performers, she said, “We work 
hard to give local artists and performers an 
economic opportunity.”
This show is coming at a time where there is much fear of war and terrorism 
around the world. Wayne said zombies 
are so popular because, “There is a fear 
that is very palpable that we could lose our 
identities or humanity.” 
All in all, the show will be beneﬁ  ting 
anyone who wants to be prepared for the 
zombie apocalypse. 
“This is the ﬁ  rst show of this format 
to be done in Gainesville,” Wayne said. 
“We’re very happy to have this immersive 
experience.”
Tickets are $10 to view the entire 
show. To attend only  the Film Fest it costs $6; the same applies for the variety show. The Atlantic is located on 15 N. Main St. THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Courtesy to the Alligator
 Dream Quilt will host the Zombie Variety Show and Film Fest on 
Saturday at the Atlantic.  Tickets are $10 for the show and ﬁ  lms.
By RaSheba Jones
Avenue Writer 
High Dive will celebrate the second annual Art Attack 
on Friday night with art, music and possibly a mermaid.
“Art is important to the Gainesville community,” said 
Sarah White, the event coordinator for Art Attack, which will begin at 6 p.m. at the downtown venue with free ad-mission.
White got the idea from her ﬁ  ance, as she would go vis-
it him in Jacksonville and see the town’s thriving art scene, and she wanted a way to replicate that in Gainesville. 
At that time two years ago, the city’s signature Art 
Walk event was in existence, but “it isn’t thriving like it is today,” White said.
“I just wanted to take what I saw in Jacksonville and 
in other art communities around Florida and bring it to Gainesville,” she said. “It is really to be an outlet for lo-cal artists, we try to be a platform for artists to show their work.” 
Most of the artists are local, but there will be a few 
artists traveling from other cities and out-of-state. The art ranges from paintings, jewelry making, T-shirt makers and there may be a mermaid.
Art Attack will be “just a sprinkle of all types of differ-
ent art,” said White, who will also have a few of her paint-ings and photos for sale.
“From what I have seen throughout Gainesville, I think 
that is who we are as a city,” White said. 
The event will run until 9:30 p.m., and it will feature 
live acoustic music in addition to the approximately 20 art-ists expected to showcase their work. 
“I am so happy to see how far [Gainesville] has come 
and grown into,” White said. “I foresee really bright things for the art in the future.” High Dive to 
host Art Attack 
ART
 Zombie show to spook downtown
FILM12  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.
Logic is currently on The End-
less Summer Tour with G-Eazy, 
Yo Gotti and YG. At their show 
in Tampa this past Sunday, I, 
along with my good friend Da-vid Spreen, were able to sit down with Logic on his tour bus 
and talk about his latest project 
“Bobby Tarantino,” tour life, new music, traveling and more. Check out the highlights from my inter-view with Logic.
Jack DaSilva: You just 
dropped your mixtape “Bobby Tarantino” a couple of weeks ago, and I’m curious as to what 
it’s like to drop a project while on 
the road?
Logic: It’s funny you say that 
because I talk about this during the show. The crowd is just learn-
ing it (“Bobby Tarantino”). The 
crazy thing is, when I typically release music, I’ll release it, it’ll come out and then months later 
I’ll tour, and everyone knows the 
words already. With this, every-body’s excited, but they might 
not know all the words yet.
J: So do you record on the 
road?
L: I do, but not this time. I’m 
not doing any recording because I want to focus on just the tour, be-
cause touring is harsh. It’s harsh on your body, on your mind, and it’s insane because you’re going so hard. I think I’ve recorded on every tour I’ve ever done — tour 
bus wise — and I’m ﬁ  nally tak-
ing a break because after the al-bums and now this new mixtape, I have some time to just focus on this (tour). After this, I go to Eu-rope for a while, and then after Europe, I come back and I have 
some off shows and different stuff 
like that, but for the most part, I’m just very excited to come back after all this and record in 
my crib.
David Spreen: What do you 
think has really changed since 
“Under Pressure” to “Bobby Tar-antino”?
L: I think it’s just the relevance 
and the fact that being more in pop culture so more people know or recognize the name Logic, 
which is kind of awesome. I feel 
like it’s pretty different now be-cause of the internet — like what is an “under-ground” rapper, 
you know? Like 
I don’t really know. I know I used to be one 
and I’m not real-
ly one anymore, but I’m in this weird place be-cause of the in-
ternet. Like, I’m 
one of the most streamed artists in the world. It’s crazy. I’m really 
blessed to sell all these records. 
I just think there’s more fans and more people who are aware, which is pretty cool.
D: I loved “Under Pressure” 
and I love “Bobby Tarantino” and “Bobby Tarantino” is just as good but there’s a different vibe.
L: Oh yeah, it’s a different 
sound. The next album is going to be extra crazy. That’s like next year though.
Jack: Now, I’ve read that 
Quentin Tarantino is a huge in-
ﬂ  uence on you and the way you 
make your albums. Your albums, they’re like stories or movies themselves. Not many artists will say that a movie director or ﬁ  lm inspires them. I know you’re 
on the soundtrack for “Suicide 
Squad,” and I want to know how the “Sucker For Pain” song came together because of the different 
artists on there, and how it feels 
to be a part of a ﬁ  lm score?
L: Well this guy whose name is 
Alex Da Kid — he’s the producer (of the single), and he works with 
Imagine Dragons — and he pret-
ty much reached out to me and was like, “Hey I got this song, do you want to do it?” and I was like 
“sure,” but it was just the beat 
and the hook, so I didn’t know there was going to be all these 
other people on it. So originally 
I did two verses, 
and they ended up using the ﬁ  rst verse but cutting 
some bars off 
that. That’s why everyone’s verse is so short — be-cause there’s so 
many people on 
it. But yeah, it was crazy. It just 
kind of worked out, and I was out 
in LA to shoot the video, so it was 
awesome.
J: So when did you ﬁ  nd out 
about the other featured artists (Lil Wayne, Wiz Khalifa, Imagine 
Dragons, Ty Dolla $ign and X Am-
bassadors)?
L: My manager just hit me 
up and was like, “Hey, all these 
people are on it,” and I was like, 
“Man that’s so cool.”
J:  That’s so interesting. It’s 
deﬁ  nitely a unique lineup of art-ists, but it’s amazing. So you’re 
obviously on tour now, but how 
did this tour come about? When I ﬁ  rst saw that Logic, G-Eazy, Yo Gotti and YG were going on tour together, I was surprised.
L: Yeah, it’s rare! Well man-
agement put it together and my manager was like, “Me and G should do this tour together,” and we thought it’d be really good to 
bring our fan bases together, and 
after that we just thought, “Man, who are some awesome people that could be a part of this?” And we came up with Yo Gotti and YG.
J: Any collaborations coming 
out between all of you?
L: We’ll see! Me and G were 
talking about doing a song to-gether, so that’d be pretty cool.
To read part two of Jack’s in-
terview with Logic, check out next week’s Avenue. 
 Speaking with Logic during The Endless Summer Tour
MUSIC
Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Jack DaSilva (left) poses with Logic (center) and David 
Spreen after sitting down with the rapper on his tour bus. 
THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
Courtesy to the Alligator
Christina Holder began a solo project after singing with the Savants of Soul.
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
Christina Holder, known by her perfor-
mance persona The Leonine Queen, is one 
of Gainesville’s top jazz singers and known 
for her range of musical styles. Formerly of 
popular Gainesville band Savants of Soul, Holder recently broke out on her own to do solo jazz shows all across town. I sat down 
with her to talk her upbringing in classical 
music and her solo debut. 
Kirsten Chuba: How did you get started 
as a musician?
Christina Holder: I started very young. 
I went to Bak Middle School of the Arts for middle school and Alexander W. Dreyfoos School of the Arts for high school, singing classically for nine years before I started 
branching out into other genres. I sang with 
the Savants of Soul for a couple of years and recorded my ﬁ  rst record with them, “Down-town Sound.” Eventually, I wanted to go solo and have more control over my music 
writing and musical stylings, so I started The 
Leonine Queen as a way to start establishing myself as a solo artist.  
KC: How would you describe your sound?
CH: Jazzfunk. It’s a blend of jazz, funk/
soul and reggae. 
KC: What has your performance schedule 
been like?
CH: I’ve been privileged enough to have 
had the opportunities to perform around the 
globe. I’ve been to Austria, Italy, and most recently, I’ve performed in Bahia, Brazil, with my bigger band, Maca Reggae Samba. 
KC: Have you put out any records as a 
solo artist, or have anything in the works?
CH: Of course, “Downtown Sound” is the 
ﬁ  rst album I ever recorded, but we are in the process of putting together TLQ’s ﬁ  rst 
album. We will begin recording next month 
at Medusa Studios. My hope is for it to be re-leased in mid-fall, and we couldn’t be more excited!
You can see The Leonine Queen perform 
live at The Bull on Aug. 19, and at Satchel’s Pizza on Aug. 20. 
Know of any other local artists I should 
check out? Send Kirsten an email at kchu-
ba@alligator.org.Gainesville jazz musician The Leonine Queen
Q&A
Courtesy to the Alligator
Christina Holder, known by her performance name, The Leonine Queen, 
has become a major presence in the jazz scene.
THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.Available 8/1/16. $1,100. or $275 per  bedroom 
Call / text 239-370-8735    8-22-16-21-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. 1 avail. Immed. & 1 avail. 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   7-28-16-12-1
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Joshua 407-342-0617 / Charlie 407-810-3489     8-4-16-13-1
1 room, furnished, sliding glass doors to small privacy fenced back yard patio (du-plex). One female student roommate, dish-washer, washer/dryer in unit 2.5 miles from UF. High-spd internet included in $325 rent. 352 631 0737       7-26-16-10-1
Grad looking for male roommate postdoc, grad or mature undergrad. 2/2 apt, close to UF, avail Aug 1st, $350/mo + 1/2 util, con-tact Larry 443-939-6198. Located country village apt 2700 SW Archer Rd, Gainesville, FL     7-21-16-7-1
4/4 All inclusive w/cable and utility pkg. 1800 SF furn. exc. for beds. Countryside at UF- call or text Cindy for pics or to see-352-339-3763. 8-4-16-5-1Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-15-16-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,
2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF3BR/2BA w/ double sinks. All appliances in-cluding DW, W/D. Patio, 3 reserved parking places. $1200/mo. Call Claudette @ 352-359-5584   7-28-16-10-2
2BR/1BA Apartment located across the street from Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. $1000/MO-$1000 Security Deposit. Utilities & Cable not included. No Pets. Shown by Appointment Only. 16 NW 20th Terrace, 32603. (352-332-3945) 8-4-16-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
1-2bd $325 shared ba, $375 own ba in 3/2 home. Peaceful 7.5 acres w oaks <10 mins to UF, Shands, Publix & shops! Spanish speakers encouraged. jrfong00@yahoo.com or txt 352.284.2654     7-28-16-10-4AVAILABLE AUG 15 - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. 
Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet 
home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 
850-420-2122    8-22-16-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW
5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                8-15-25-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTHURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
02 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                     8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
CSR (Customer Service Rep) needed part-time at University Air Center. Please apply online at UAC.aero.      8-2-16-10-14
Part time cleaner needed for home,apartments, and office cleanings m-fri 8-5, wed 8a-10p and sat 8a-3p. Must be a fast, energetic cleaner in good shape to per-form any cleaning task with no limits. Must own a reliable car and be willing to service Gainesville, Jonesville, williston, and mor-riston. Must past a background/drug test. Paying $8.50/hr and weekly pay ..If inter-ested please call 352-214-0868     7-26-5-14
$ Seasonal PT Position $Football Game Day ParkingMust work a minimum of 2shifts every home gameContact: scoc-hire@ufl.edu       7-21-16-4-14
UF Survey Research Center 
$9.50 - $10 per hour +
bimonthly bonus + Paid Training
No Sales
*Spanish speakers needed
Find us on Gator Jobs! 
http://jobs.ufl.edu
7-26-16-4-14
NEED CLINICAL EXPERIENCE BEFORE ENTERING MEDICAL SCHOOL?Paid, Full-time employment.Training provided.Send resume to Dr. Levy, afn22025@att.net    8-4-6-14
AUTOMOTIVE TECHNICIAN NEEDED. Must have diagnostic skills & exp in both for-eign and domestic vehicles and have tools. Fax resume to 386-758-4759 or email to cacrepair@yahoo.com    8-2-16-5-14
SECRETARY TYPIST. Mostly letters & man-uscripts. 6-10 hrs/wk. $10/hr. Must have own transportation & basic computer skills. Prefer local person. Call 352-378-9771, leave name and phone number.    7-21-16-2-14
Country Inn & Suites currently seeking front 
desk rep. and Night Auditor, Hotel front desk exp. preferred. Also seeking part time house man. Apply in person 4015 SW 43rd St Gainesville, Fl 32608  8-2-16-5-14Out of town Gator Alum needs help with tailgates for all home games! looking for a reliable, trustworthy and energetic individual to help prepare, set up tailgate, take down tailgate and store items for the next home game. Great Pay! Great Opportunity! Email me at gatorgamedays@gmail.com 7-28-16-4-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 
minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area announces a public meeting 
to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME:  August 1, 2016 at 3:00 p.m.PLACE:  Jack Durrance Auditorium, County  
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352-955-2200, visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation-MTPO) or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without re-
gard to race, color, sexual orientation, or 
gender identity. Persons who require spe-
cial accommodations under the Americans 
with Disabilities Act or persons who require 
translation services (free of charge) should 
contact Mike Escalante at 352-955-2200, ex-
tension 114, at least seven (7) days before 
the public meeting. 7-21-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Lost Small Blind White Dog with black face. Last seen Madera Subdividion.All info ap-preciated. Picture at- https://flic.kr/p/KfkeBu Bonzaicb@yahoo.com 352-222-1080
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
The end of the termand the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Current world events foretold! Globalism, Middle East chaos, Cashless money 666 (Rev.13)
Bible Prophecy Forum   
Tuesday July 26 at 7:30 pm 
Reitz Union Room 3310  
7-26-16-3-20
ACROSS
1 Alloy component
6 Twosomes
11 Time for
preparations
14 “It was you,” in a
Verdi aria
15 Word on mail
from Spain
16 Unit of RAM
17 King of the Hill
winner
20 Repeated phrase
in Kipling’s
“Recessional”
21 Certain balloter
24 “Milk’s favorite
cookie”
25 Phil Collins’ old
group
26 Grilling aids
29 Bigheadedness30 Adjust for the
new tax year
31 It’s rarely paid to
a car dealer
35 Large merchant
ships
38 Chihuahua cheer41 Spread all over42 Persian Gulf
island nation
46 Instrument to
which anorchestra tunes
47 Turned down for
easy reference
48 Recovery site?
52 Scholar’s
motivation
56 Single
57 Make dim58 Mello __59 ’60s radical gp.60 Buttonholes, e.g.61 Teed off
DOWN
1 “Alice” diner
owner
2 Factor in MLB’s
Cy Young Award
3 Quaint
contraction
4 Prime minister
after and before
Churchill
5 Light bulb units
6 Edmond __: the
Count of MonteCristo7 “__ Can”: 2008
slogan
8 Prado hangings
9 Like many
Gallaudet
College students
10 Prefix with gram
11 Female political
refugee
12 Thin layers
13 Picnic game that
can get messy
18 Piedmont city
19 Be half-asleep21 Candle count,
perhaps
22 Ask to be
excused, with“off”
23 __-Cat26 Inspiring msg.27 Ryssdal of NPR’s
“Marketplace”
28 Corner key
30 Turning meas.
31 “Cowboy Man”
singer
32 Rose-rose link
33 Caesar known for
being funny
34 Fore site?35 Many moon
missions36 Make a comeback
37 Makes before
deductions
38 Galley tool
39 Twist facts40 Pull the plug on42 Jeer leaders43 Lago contents
44 English king who
was a son of
William theConqueror45 Original “SNL”
cast member
47 Key above C49 HQs for B-2s
50 Longtime
Steelers coach
Chuck
51 Half of sechs53 Kind
54 N.Y. Mets’ div.
55 Word on U.S.
coins
By Scott Ober and Peter Koetters
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/21/1607/21/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, July 21, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
16 Health Services 19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 25 Lost & Found
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF's Savannah Jordan (left), Meggie Dougherty Howard and Gabby Seiler were named to the MAC Herman Trophy Watch List on Wednesday, given to the NCAA's top soccer player.
Poll Results: Who was UF's best coach of 2015-16?
 Mike Holloway - 50%   Jim McElwain - 38.9% 
 Mike White - 5.6%  Other - 5.5%Staff Report
In the ﬁ  nal edition of the Alligator 
Awards, we debate which UF team 
was the best of the 2015-16 season. 
Sports writers Ray Boone, Matt Bran-non and Alejandro López join al-
ligatorSports Editors Ian Cohen and 
Ethan Bauer in a roundtable discus-
sion to debate the ﬁ  ve nominees. De-
bates will go in alphabetical order by the writer’s last name.
Bauer: Butler, women’s 
basketball team bounced back
After watching her team get deci-
mated by Auburn in its ﬁ  rst game of 
the Southeastern Conference Tour-
nament in 2015, UF women’s bas-ketball coach Amanda Butler didn’t 
mince words.
“I thought we had the right mind-
set,” she said of her team late in the season. “But clearly I was wrong. I 
was wrong. Sometimes coaches are 
wrong.”
Early in 2016, it looked like But-
ler might be wrong again. She had promised a turnaround led by a 
group of talented veterans, a capable freshman and two new assistant 
coaches. She had promised a win-
ning team. 
Instead, the Gators lost to un-
ranked Temple in their ﬁ  rst game of the year. 
“In this non-conference (sched-
ule) you want to challenge yourself and ﬁ  nd out who is equipped to han-
dle what moments and who needs to 
grow in what moments,” Butler said 
after the loss. “We learned a lot of 
those things tonight.”
At the time, that sounded like 
typical coach speak. But in UF’s next game, it appeared that the Gators did, in fact, learn from the loss. 
It was against No. 6 FSU, and 
the Gators were able to pull off the 
upset. From there, Florida reeled off 
11 straight wins before falling in its conference opener against No. 8 Mis-
sissippi State. 
Even with a loss, the Gators went 
10-6 in the SEC and 22-9 overall. 
That was good enough for a ﬁ  rst-
round bye in the SEC Tournament 
and a spot in the NCAA Tourna-
ment. That’s a signiﬁ  cant improve-
ment for a team that went 13-17 just 
one season ago. 
And even though UF lost its ﬁ  rst 
SEC and NCAA Tournament games, the staggering improvement makes it 
UF’s best team of 2016. 
Boone: Women’s golf had 
unparalleled success in regular 
season
Put simply, the Florida women's 
golf team had an amazing year.
The season started slowly for the 
Gators, who ﬁ  nished outside the top 
three in their ﬁ  rst three events, but 
by October, things were heating up.
Florida captured its ﬁ  rst victory 
of the year on Oct. 27 at the Alamo Invitational in San Antonio, Texas.
And from there, a ﬁ  re was ig-
nited.
The Gators went on to win ﬁ  ve 
more times in the season, includ-ing four-straight victories to cap the 
regular season. 
It was the team’s most wins in 
one season since 1986. 
Florida also ﬁ  nished in second 
place at the SEC Championship — its 
best ﬁ  nish since 2008. 
In addition, it was a banner year 
for UF golfer Maria Torres.
The junior, who led the team 
in scoring average at 72.03, had 10 
top-25 ﬁ  nishes on the year. Her big-
gest highlight, however, came at the 
SEC Championship where she ﬁ  red 
a personal best 9-under, 207 to cap-
ture the individual title. In that vic-tory, Torres became only the seventh 
Gator to claim the SEC individual 
title.
The Florida women’s golf team 
had unparalleled success.And yes, it’s quite common that 
the success of a team is measured by one thing: national titles.
And yes, with a 17th-place ﬁ  n-
ish at the NCAA Championship, the 
women’s golf team fell way short of 
that goal this season.
But the program’s historic regular 
season has to count for something. 
Brannon: Despite failed three-
peat, softball trampled regular-season opponents
For much of the season, Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium was a place for low-tiered programs to parade in 
its players before being bussed back 
to Nowhere, USA, after an eight, 10 or 12-run defeat.  
Florida’s most impressive team 
this year was the one experts picked 
to win a third-straight national 
championship: the softball team. 
Florida (56-7) fell short of its high expectations when they were upset 
by Georgia on a pinch-hit walkoff 
home run in the NCAA Super Re-gional. But despite the team’s post-
season problems, UF rolled through the regular season on a road of ac-
colades. 
Heading into postseason play, 
the Gators were ranked No. 1 and all three pitchers each boasted a na-tionwide top-10 ERA. It was the ﬁ  rst 
team in 2016 to have all of its pitch-
ers throw 100 strikeouts. 
On the offensive side of the dia-
mond, Florida ﬁ  nished the regular season with its highest on-base per-
centage in program history. Of three 
nominees for NFCA Freshman of the Year, two were Gators, and outﬁ  eld-
er Amanda Lorenz won. Lorenz also 
came just four points shy of earning 
the best batting average in school 
history.
The team ﬁ  nished with a .889 winning percentage. But it’s not just 
that they won — it’s that they won 
by so much. UF outscored oppo-
nents 62-1 in its ﬁ  rst seven games. Of 
Florida’s 56 wins, 31 were shutouts. 
Cohen: Football team re-
energized fan base
When examining the best-team 
nominees, there is one choice that 
stands out from the rest — the foot-
ball team.
And its nomination has much less 
to do with how last season ended and more to do with the four seasons 
before it.
Everyone remembers the Will 
Muschamp era, and if you don’t, congratulations, you’ve succeeded in 
suppressing some miserable memo-
ries.
But when Jim McElwain was 
THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
 Alligator Awards: Best Team of 2015-16
GATORS IN MLB
MIKE ZUNINO SHINED IN 
WEDNESDAY'S GAME.
Staff Report
After a two-game stint with the 
Seattle Mariners earlier this month, 
former Florida standout Mike Zunino was called up from Triple-A Tacoma again on Wednesday. 
The catcher was quick to make 
his presence felt in his ﬁ  rst game back, homering off Zach Duke of the Chicago White Sox to pull the Mariners within a run. Seattle was able to scrape across one more in 
the eighth on an Adam Lind hom-
er, tying the game 5-5 and leading 
to extra innings. In the bottom of the 11th, Leonys Martin hit a walk-off home run to propel the Mari-
ners to a win. 
It was the second time Zunino 
entered with a bang this season. 
Back in his ﬁ  rst MLB game of the season in early July, Zunino hit two homers before going 0-3 two days later and being sent back down to the minors. 
In Triple-A, Zunino was hitting 
.286 with 17 home runs, tied for the fourth most in the Paciﬁ  c Coast League this season, before being called up the second time. 
Martin Struggling Former Florida shortstop Rich-
ie Martin has had trouble hitting since he began his professional ca-reer, and his struggles have been especially pronounced as of late. 
Even in college, Martin wasn’t 
known for his bat. He hit .284 in 
his three-year Gainesville career. 
But his defense was superb. 
That’s the main reason the Oak-
land Athletics took Martin with the 
20th-overall pick in the 2015 MLB 
Draft. 
Still, it’s likely that the A’s ex-
pected his hitting would progress, 
and so far, it hasn’t. Even in Sin-gle-A and below, his bat has been suspect. He’s hitting .230 with 19 walks and 39 strikeouts this sea-
son. And in his last 10 games, he’s 
hitting .175.
Gators in Triple-A
Florida’s 2016 home run leader 
is picking up right where he left 
off.
Former ﬁ  rst baseman Peter 
Former UF catcher  homers in comeback to majorsSEE ALLIGATOR AWARDS,  PAGE 19
SEE MLB,  PAGE 18
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Carla Batchelor (left), Carlie Needles (center) and Ronni Williams (right) celebrate during 
Florida's 85-79 win over Kentucky on Jan. 31 in the O'Connell Center. 
18  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016
Alonso has two home runs and 
seven RBIs through 11 games with the Brooklyn Cyclones, including a two-hit, two-RBI performance 
on Monday.
Alonso has the team’s second-
highest batting average (.286) and 
will get a chance to continue his solid play in the minors when 
Brooklyn faces the Aberdeen Iron-Birds on Thursday.
Former UF outﬁ  elder Buddy 
Reed has also been productive 
through the ﬁ  rst 13 games of his minor-league career, racking up 14 hits, six stolen bases and three RBIs.
Reed’s best performance came 
in a 4-3 loss to the Eugene Emer-alds on Saturday, where he belted three hits and scored two runs in four at-bats.
The Astros demoted Preston Tucker to Triple-A in May after he batted .176 through 33 games.
The left ﬁ  elder has improved 
with the Fresno Grizzlies.
Through 51 minor-league 
games, the 26-year-old has 60 hits, eight home runs and a .297 batting average.
Tucker has been particularly 
effective in his last four games, compiling six hits and three RBIs over that span. 
MLB,  from pg 17Buddy Reed and Peter Alonso are 
both producing in the minor leagues
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Seattle Mariners catcher Mike Zunino, right, greets closer Nathan 
Karns, left, after Seattle defeated the Baltimore Orioles on July 2.
THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
hired in 2015, everything changed. 
After a forgettable four seasons un -
der Muschamp — including a 4-8 season in 2013, UF’s first losing re
-
cord since 1979 — the Gators went 10-4, won the SEC East and breathed 
life into a program that desperately 
needed it.
There were highlight plays, in
-
cluding Antonio Callaway’s 63-yard touchdown catch and run to com
-
plete UF’s comeback against Tennes -see in September.
There were memorable moments, 
like when Florida unseated two-time defending SEC East Champions Mis
-
souri on the road in October.
And there was drama, heightened 
by quarterback Will Grier tearing up at the lectern in October after admit
-
ting to taking performance-enhanc -
ing drugs.
All of that combined to make the 
UF football team the most interest -
ing, thrilling, unpredictable team of the last season.
In other words, the best team of 
2015-16.López: Gymnastics turned in 
an impressive year
What judges the quality of a 
team?
Is it based on the talent of its ath
-
letes and the skill of its coaches? Or, perhaps, its overall record and the 
number of singular moments it pro
-
duced?
For each team’s success, though, 
only one group at Florida checked 
off each of those four standards — 
the gymnastics team.
The skill populating its roster 
was undeniable. From international 
medalist Bridget Sloan and collegiate 
stars Alex McMurtry and Kennedy Baker, to freshman sensation Alicia Boren and depth contributor Grace 
McLaughlin, this squad housed a 
talent pool that was the envy of the 
NCAA.
That excellence extended to the 
coaching staff. With over three de
-
cades of collegiate coaching experi -
ence shared between Jenny Row -
land, Adrian Burde, Owen Field and Jeremy Miranda, the program is in 
good hands for years to come.
The team finished the year with 
an 11-3 record — the program’s 
best since 2014 — a Southeastern 
Conference title, a Regional title and 
a fourth-place finish at the NCAA championships. Additionally, at least one Gator gymnast placed top-
seven nationally in each of the five 
events available for competition. 
The team also managed to gener
-
ate its fair share of memorable mo -
ments — between Bridget Sloan’s final home routine and a program-
high three perfect 10s in a meet 
against Alabama, the gymnasts con
-
jured up some magic of their own.
They may not have brought home 
a title, but that sure sounds like the best team on campus to me. 
Who do you think was the best 
team of 2015-16? Vote online at Al
-
ligator.org/sports.ALLIGATOR AWARDS,  
from pg 17Jenny Rowland led her team to the Super Six in her first season20  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 21, 2016
