We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 17 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
Defensive line wreaking havoc for 
Gators
Senior Joey Ivie is just one of Florida’s key cogs 
on defense, pg. 13
Gainesville airport receives grant for renovations
The about $4.2 million grant will go toward repairs, pg. 3
GPD investigating state representative
An incident report was issued for Rep. Keith Perry, pg. 5Dozens protest proposed pipelines
See the photo story,  pgs. 8-9
THE OL YMPIC FIGURE 
SKATER WILL VISIT 
THURSDAY.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Two-time Olympian ﬁ  gure skater Mi-
chelle Kwan is coming to Gainesville on 
Thursday. 
Kwan will be at the Reitz Union, 
Room 2355, at noon to talk about Hill-
ary Clinton’s New College Compact while meeting with local volunteers and 
organizers, a campaign spokesman con-ﬁ  rmed. 
She will also stop by 4056 W. New-
berry Road, one of the campaign’s of-ﬁ  ces, at 2 p.m. to participate in a phone 
bank and meet with volunteers inter-
ested in helping out the campaign, the spokesman said. 
While on campus, Kwan will talk 
about Clinton’s college plan, which pro-poses free tuition at community colleges and helping students with student debt to defer loan payments.
Kwan, who competed in ﬁ  gure skat-
ing in the Olympics in 1998 and 2002, has been an avid supporter of Clinton. 
Jake Best, the president of Gators 4 
Hillary, said he heard about Kwan com-
ing to UF a couple of days ago. 
“She just wants to come and show 
support on UF campus,” the 19-year-old 
UF journalism sophomore said. “We’re just excited that they’re gonna bring in someone like her who’s really well-known and famous.” While at the Reitz Union, Kwan will 
help register students to vote. The dead-line to register in Florida is Oct. 11. 
Best said although Gators 4 Hillary 
isn’t hosting Kwan, the group is hoping to host other public ﬁ  gures on campus 
to encourage students to vote.  
“Hopefully we’ll have more people 
coming in, but nothing’s really set in 
stone,” he said. 
@melissagomez004
mgomez@alligator.org   Michelle Kwan coming to UF in support of Hillary Clinton 
Kwan
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
BENVENUTI, ITALIAN GATOR
From left: Angela Velazquez, 28, an employee at Italian Gator Pizza by the Slice, hands Dishen Patel, 
a UF ﬁ  nance junior, napkins after Patel ordered pizza on Tuesday afternoon. Italian Gator reopened after eight months of renovations. Joel Mills, the owner of the restaurant, helped serve pizza. “It’s the best feeling in the world (to reopen), ” Mills said. “By having two windows, we will be able to serve the crowds a lot faster. ” He said even with the rain, it had been nonstop with customers on opening day. More than 75 pizzas had been served by 4 p.m.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
101 Cantina will take legal ac-
tion for its right to stay on West 
University Avenue.
The Midtown restaurant and 
tequila bar was served an evic-
tion notice by leasing company 
Trimark Properties LLC on Fri-day for unpaid rent, late charges, court costs and attorney fees, ac-cording to Alachua County court records.
But Alex Thomas, a partner 
of 101 Cantina, said now that 
Trimark has made its claim, the 
restaurant will be ﬁ  ling its own within the week, arguing it still has a year left on the lease and should not be evicted.
In the 43-page complaint ﬁ  led 
by Trimark, emails between Thomas and Matthew Luedecke, the commercial property manager of Trimark, show Thomas asking 
to extend 101 Cantina’s lease. Lu-
edecke claims in the emails that 101 Cantina leased the location at 1632 W. University Ave. on a month-to-month basis.
Luedecke declined to com-
ment, saying the family that owns the property is preparing a state-
ment. 
“We’re not really authorized to 
make a comment,” he said.
Thomas said he extended the 
lease in 2012. The emails includ-
ed in the court ﬁ  ling show his desire to renew the lease again before it ends in September 2017.
“I ask every month, ‘Hey, what’s going on with this lease, are we getting a new lease?’” he said.
He tried to pay September’s 
rent, but Trimark did not deposit it, Thomas said.
“We’re arguing that we have a 
year left,” he said. “We’ll be mak-ing our claim back to them this week.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  101 Cantina to ﬁ  le claim regarding eviction notice
IT WILL BE NEAR 
SOUTHWEST 
RECREATION CENTER.
By Katelyn Newberg 
and Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writers
Students will be able to park 
for free near Southwest Recre-ation Center, UF’s Student Gov-ernment announced Tuesday.
Students who register their 
cars using the PassportParking Mobile Pay app will be able to park in the Bledsoe Drive park-ing lot, or Zone 483, across from Southwest Rec for two hours, said Ty Robare, the Action SG chair-man. The funding comes from SG’s special projects budget line, which can use up to $55,000 to 
fund the parking. 
“We all pay the Activity and 
Service Fee, so we should all be 
able to utilize the free gym mem-bership,” the 21-year-old said. 
For every student who parks in 
the spaces, SG is charged $2.20, which comes out of the special projects line. 
The cost of the parking pro-
gram will be determined by how many students use the spots each month, said UF Student Body Treasurer Kishan Patel. 
“Obviously, it’s not going to 
be booked 100 percent of the time,” he said. 
In Spring 2015, a trial for free 
parking was launched in the same lot, according to Alligator archives. But parking was hard to regulate, Robare said.
When students log into the 
app, Transportation and Parking 
Services can track parking time. 
Scott Miller, 20, who bought a 
yearlong parking decal, said his 
initial excitement turned into an-noyance after he heard about the free parking from his friends. 
“The only reason I have a de-
cal is to park at Southwest every day,” the UF computer science 
junior said. “Having this doesn’t 
really help me at this point.” 
knewberg@alligator.org  
mgomez@alligator.org UF SG funds free parking Company argues it has a year left on lease Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  85° LOW  72°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
What Colors Do You Bleed? 
Blood Drive
The annual What Colors Do You Bleed? Blood Drive host-ed by LifeSouth Community Blood Centers will be held un-til Friday. The blood drive is a competition between UF and the University of Tennessee to see which school can donate the most blood. Bloodmobiles will 
be located at the Newberry Road 
Donor Center, the Civitan Donor Center, the Hub, Turlington Plaza, Little Hall, Sorority Row and Gator Corner Dining Center. For more information, email lg-bialeck@lifesouth.org or call 352-359-0988.RUB Entertainment’s glow-in-
the-dark ZumbaJoin Reitz Union Board Entertainment for a free Zumba class with a twist. Today at 6:15 p.m., come out to the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom for spe-cial glow-in-the-dark Zumba. Participants will receive glow-in-the-dark jewelry.
The Variety Show
Today at The Hardback Cafe, located at 211 W. University 
Ave., Alan Tyson will host The 
Variety Show, a weekly show 
of comedians, musicians and wacky performers. Come enjoy the show and a craft beer or cup 
of coffee. The show starts at 9 
p.m. Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, David Hoffman, Amanda     
  Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Michael Smith  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 17
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville Regional Air-
port received a multimillion-dollar 
grant to continue its expansion and upgrade safety features. 
The Federal Aviation Admin-
istration awarded the airport $4,253,212 to fund the new Aircraft Rescue and Fireﬁ  ghting Station and expand the airport’s terminal. Con-struction will begin Oct. 1 and will last three to ﬁ  ve years.The money came from the 
FAA’s Airport Improvement Pro-gram, a grant from Congress that airports apply for, said Arlene Sa-lac, the public affairs manager for the New England regional FAA.
The grant will cover 90 percent 
of renovation costs, she said. The city of Gainesville will have to cov-er the remaining 10 percent. 
The majority of the money is 
funding the new ﬁ  re and rescue station, Allan Penksa, the airport’s CEO, said. The current station was built in 1979 and needs extensive 
maintenance. It is more cost-efﬁ  -
cient to build a new station.
The new building, which will 
replace the old one near Waldo Road, will be closer to the air trafﬁ  c control tower. Ideally, the airport’s ﬁ  re station, which runs 20 hours per day, should be as close to the airport as possible, Penksa said.
About $890,000 of the grant will 
fund renovations on the terminal. The roof will be replaced, and an-other Transportation Security Ad-
ministration line will be added, but 
the construction won’t affect the airport’s daily operations, he said. 
The size and capabilities of the 
terminal will expand for future growth, although there’s no guar-antee new airlines or cities will be added, Penksa said. 
“It’s not a ‘build-it-and-they-
will-come’ scenario,” he said. “This is part of the program of con-tinuing improvement.”
The ﬁ  re station isn’t falling down, but it does have some prob-lems, said Mark Boals, a ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter 
at the airport. The updated build-
ing will be close enough to see the 
airﬁ  eld in case of an emergency. If something were to happen, the ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters would have a shorter response time.
“We are excited,” Boals, a 
Gainesville resident, said, “but we know it’s going to take time.”
@Jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org 
 Gainesville airport receives multimillion-dollar renovation grantCatherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
UF President Kent Fuchs gives a speech about UF’s need to embrace diversity in the wake of the Pulse shooting. About 300 UF students and Gainesville residents attended the Pugh Hall event After Orlando: Managing Fears and Welcoming Diversity. UF brought in three panelists to address the issues of fear, diversity and coexisting.
PRESIDENT FUCHS 
CALLED FOR UF TO BE A 
MODEL OF DIVERSITY.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
On Tuesday night, UF Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs said the uni-
versity needs to embrace di-versity in the wake of the Pulse nightclub shooting. 
About 300 UF students and 
Gainesville residents attended the Pugh Hall event After Orlan-do: Managing Fears and Wel-coming Diversity. UF brought in three panelists to address the issues of fear, diversity and co-existing following the June at-tack that killed 49 people.
Fuchs opened the forum by 
calling for those gathered to practice tolerance and not close themselves off to what is hap-pening around them.
“With intolerance on rise na-
tionally,” he said, “my hope is that this university, that the city of Gainesville, will be an ever-brightening showcase for those beneﬁ  ts of inclusion.”
He told the audience the uni-
versity was the perfect place to have the conversation before the three panel members and a 
moderator took the stage.
Terry Fleming, a co-presi-
dent of the Pride Community 
Center of North Central Florida, described himself as a cisgender gay man with an unfortunate resemblance to Walter White.
He said the U.S. is stron-
ger as a nation when citizens 
welcome what makes others 
unique.
“I for one am not happy with 
the language that we should ‘tolerate diversity,’” he said. “We should celebrate diver-sity.”Rasha Mubarak, an Orlando 
resident and the regional co-ordinator for the Council of American-Islamic Relations of Florida, said she woke up at 5 a.m. on the day of the Pulse nightclub shooting for morning prayer. 
By mid-morning, her phone 
was ringing constantly, and she could hear sirens in the back-ground as she worked down-town, she said. 
“You could see (the) num-
ber of the death toll go up, and so did my heart rate,” she said.
As they spoke, Merel Schalk-
wijk, an international student 
from the Netherlands, listened 
from the staircase study pod.  
“I only heard about the Or-
lando shooting from abroad,” the 22-year-old UF international studies junior said. “It was in-teresting to hear it related to 
other problems in society.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org  Forum discusses aftermath of Pulse  
“W e should celebrate 
diversity.”
T erry Fleming
Co-President, Pride 
Community Center4   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
By Mercedes Leguizamon
Alligator Contributing Writer
After a dip in donations, a 
Gainesville group that sends books 
to inmates is asking for help.
Gainesville Books for Prison-
ers, which sends about $40 to $70 worth of books every week to state and federal prisoners in Florida, will hold a fundraising concert Sat-urday at the Civic Media Center, said group member Emily Sparr.Local artists such as Akin Yai 
and Ironing will perform at the show, which is scheduled to run from 7:30 p.m. to 1 a.m., accord-ing to the concert’s Facebook event 
page. The center is located at 433 
S. Main St. 
Donations of $5 to $10 are en-
couraged, according to the page.
“We appreciate anything folks 
can give,” Sparr, a 33-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said. “We 
can’t do this project without a lot of support, so we appreciate every-one’s contributions so much.”
The group is an offshoot of 
the national Books for Prisoners 
organization. About three years 
ago, a group of locals started the 
Gainesville branch, Sparr said.
The group, in partnership with 
the Pride Community Center of 
North Central Florida, ships out two to four books per package de-pending on what prisoners ask for 
in letters sent to the group, she said. Some inmates ask for speciﬁ  c titles or genres.
“Books are not only a safe way 
to spend time in prison, they are 
also tools for self-improvement and 
social justice,” Sparr said.
Donations usually run low after 
summer break because most peo-ple are out of town, so there are not 
many people available to help with fundraising, Sparr said.
Saturday’s event will help the 
group continue operations, she said, and the group is not looking to raise a speciﬁ  c amount of mon-
ey.
Kara Vachon, a UF ﬁ  nance ju-
nior, wrote in a message that she 
was unaware of the organization but pleased to hear someone cared 
about prisoners’ education.
“Once they are out of prison, 
if applicable, they can contribute 
to society in a positive manner through the mental stimulation re-
ceived in prison,” Vachon, 20, said  Books for Prisoners group to hold fundraising concert
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Nick Bussian stopped in between 
classes to write his thoughts on a 
board reading “Before I Leave UF…” 
On Tuesday, Impact Party took to 
Turlington Plaza to ask students for ideas to improve UF. The 20-year-old UF economics junior wrote he wants Student Government to be more transparent.
Platform generation will continue 
today and Thursday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Turlington Plaza and on the North Lawn, Impact President Janae Moodie wrote in an email.
After using chalk to scribble his 
thoughts, Bussian said he wanted SG members to be open about policies and budgets. 
“I think you can never be too 
transparent about your policies and what’s going on in the system,” he said. 
Moodie said Impact represen-
tatives will continue talking to as many students as possible. “Our platform is our contract to 
the Student Body,” she said.
Jeremy O’Brien Murillo, a UF 
political science freshman, is one of six independents running in the Fall election. 
Murillo, who is running for the 
Beaty Towers Senate seat, said the independent candidates aren’t form-ing a party, but they are working to-gether and will have similar platform ideas taken from conversations with students. 
The independent candidates will focus on campaign ﬁ  nance reform and implementing remote online voting, he said. 
“I can speak for all the indepen-
dent candidates when I say that Im-pact perpetuates a corrupt system we fundamentally disagree with,” the 19-year-old said. “We’re stand-ing in solidarity as independents.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org 
IDEAS FROM IMPACT 
PARTY’S BOARD 
• Be green 
• Keeping transparency
• More parking 
• Norman gym 
• More feminine products in 
restrooms  SG party, candidates, begin building Fall election platforms
THEY DISCUSSED 
APPLICATION OF THE 
U.S. CONSTITUTION
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Student senators debated re-
cent Student Government Judiciary 
Committee decisions during Tues-day night’s Senate meeting. 
After the committee failed to 
allow a proposed bill limiting po-litical party campaign spending to reach the Senate ﬂ  oor, citing U.S. Supreme Court decisions, Ford Dwyer (Law, Access) argued the committee shouldn’t interpret the U.S. Constitution in issues of Stu-dent Government. 
The committee deemed the bill 
unconstitutional because it vio-lated First Amendment rights, but Dwyer said a 2012 UF Supreme Court opinion stated the UF court does not have the authority to in-terpret the U.S. Constitution, and its jurisdiction only applies to UF’s Student Government. Dwyer said the same argument should apply to the committee. 
“I think that’s worth a discus-
sion,” he said. “It seems to me something Student Government shouldn’t be doing.” 
He argued that if SG legislation 
has to abide by the free speech laws in the U.S Constitution, then rules in UF’s 700 election codes determining when and how parties can operate would also be uncon-stitutional. During his report, Judiciary 
Chairman Ben Weiner defended his committee’s decision, restating that campaign spending is an ex-tension of free speech, according to the U.S. Supreme Court. 
“We don’t interpret the (U.S.) 
Constitution in the Judiciary Com-mittee; we just follow the law,” he said. “If anyone thinks that we should not follow the U.S. Consti-tution, I respectfully disagree.” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org 
APPROVED BY 
UNANIMOUS CONSENT:
• 12 students approved 
for positions in the Honor Court; the recommendations were voted on as a block.
• Knitting Gators received $167.86 for funding.
• Replacement seats for District D, Engineering, Hume and Liberal Arts and Sciences were ﬁ  lled.  Senators debate Student Government committee decisions
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UNDER MY UMBRELLA
Students walk on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday afternoon during a forecasted 
scattered thunderstorm. Thunderstorms are forecasted for the rest of this week.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Mercedes Leguizamon
Alligator Contributing Writer
To see her mother for what 
may be the last time, a Gainesville 
woman has turned to the internet to help fund a trip to New York.
Morgan Barthelme, 20, whose 
mother has stage-four pancreatic tumors, has raised $1,460 through a GoFundMe webpage since Sept. 2, as of press time.
The money will go toward plane tickets for her and three of her sib-lings to fly to Sidney, New York, 
she said.
It has been about six months 
since Barthelme has seen her 
mother, 63-year-old Kathy. For one of her sisters, it has been nearly three years, at about the same time her mother contracted her tumors.
Recently, as her condition wors-
ened, she has spent more time in a 
hospital bed than in her own.
“You realize what you have once it’s gone,” Barthelme said.
Their fundraising goal is $5,000, 
she said. She hopes to meet the 
goal by October.
“My twin sister and I both work 
minimum wage jobs and with the time frame we may not have enough time to get all the funds we need,” Barthelme wrote in a mes-sage.
Barthelme said she came up 
with the idea to create the page, and her two sisters and older brother have been very supportive of the idea.
If Barthelme and her siblings 
reunite with their mother, she said anything they do would be special, even driving around and sightsee-ing.
Her mother moved to New York 
in April as she became more ill, Barthelme said.
“I think she wanted to be buried 
with her mom once she goes,” she said.Saying goodbye to a loved one 
nearing the end of his or her life can offer meaningful closure for those involved, said Debra Weiss, a UF mental health counselor.
“There may be an element of 
having had the ability to prepare to say goodbye, to do meaningful actions with that person, to kind of put in place plans for grieving,” 
Weiss said.
To donate, visit gofundme.
com/2mxw4hg.
Gainesville woman raises money to visit dying motherBy Kate Merkley
Alligator Contributing Writer
Locals will attempt to combat 
a rare disease this weekend with 
life-size foosball.
To help fund research for X-
chromosome deletion, a disorder 
that can cause autism-like symp-
toms in young girls, Gainesville Human Foosball will host a tour-nament Sunday at Santa Fe Col-lege.
The money raised will go to 
Xtraordinary Joy, a foundation started this year by two UF em-ployees whose 2-year-old daugh-ter has the disorder. 
There are currently only 10 
known cases of the disorder in  
the world, said Amy Meacham, the girl’s mother and a UF re-search scientist studying leuke-mia.
The foundation will then 
donate the money to UF’s Col-lege of Medicine so researchers can begin to study the disorder, Meacham said.
“This helps bring change to the world, even though it’s a very small corner of the world,” said Rick Thompson, who will play Sunday. “This is the ground floor of what could be breaking research that brings change to people.”
The tournament, which will 
feature food vendors, will run 
from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. at Santa 
Fe’s track. 
Individual admission tickets 
can be bought at humanfoosball.org/tickets for $30, or teams of seven players can register for $175 altogether.
Dan Dias, the founder of 
Gainesville Human Foosball, ex-plained the sport in simple terms: It’s like soccer, but it’s played inside a square enclosure with large bars crossing through. The goal is to score the soccer ball into the opponent’s goal, he said.
“Imagine a foosball table,” 
Dias said, “and now imagine that you are one of the little dudes.”
Gainesville Human Foosball 
has held six fundraising tourna-ments before, he said. After hear-ing about the Meacham family, 
he decided to turn his attention 
to raising money for X-chromo-some deletion.
Meacham said the support 
from her community has made dealing with her daughter’s ill-ness easier.
“There are so many times dur-
ing the day where we just want 
to go back to our normal lives,” 
Meacham said. “But community involvement is really what helps us and keeps us accountable go-ing forward.”
Human foosball to raise money for rare-disorder researchAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
PIZZA AND PARSHA
Rabbi Aaron Notik of Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Cen-
ter engages members in a weekly discussion over the T orah portion Ki T eitzei. Members also enjoyed some kosher pizza, and more than a dozen people at-tended.
THE INVESTIGATION 
INVOLVES A TRESPASSING 
AND BATTERY INCIDENT.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police is investigating a tres-
passing and battery incident involving Florida 
Rep. Keith Perry while he was on UF’s cam-pus last weekend. 
An incident report issued for Perry, a Re-
publican who serves District 21, alleges he got into a fight with a man in the 2200 block of W. University Ave. following the Gators football game, according to a police report.
The incident stemmed from a dispute over 
a political sign and has since been resolved, Kayla Lott, Perry’s campaign manager, wrote in an email.
“Happy to let you know that this issue 
has been resolved,” Perry said in a written statement. “After the parties discussed the situation, we agreed that this was based on a misunderstanding, as evidenced by the fact that the complaint has been withdrawn and the sign will be put back up by the property owner.”
However, the official complaint has not 
been withdrawn, GPD spokesman Officer Ben To-
bias wrote in an email.
Perry serves Dixie, 
Gilchrist and Alachua Counties. He is currently running for the District 8 seat in the Florida Senate against Democratic candi-date Rod Smith.
The first page of the police report was re-
leased Monday, and the remaining pages are 
exempt from public disclosure, Tobias said. 
The released report doesn’t include Perry’s name or the narrative.
No charges have been filed, and no arrests 
have been made, he said.
“I can confirm that Keith Perry was in-
volved in this incident, and additional details will be released as they become available,” Tobias said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgGPD investigating state rep.
Perry
By Lena Schwallenberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
For three days, UF mathematics 
senior Becca Swango campaigned 
to be the first female student Two Bits. 
But on Tuesday afternoon, a 
committee within the University Athletic Association chose fourth-generation Gator and 2015 runner-up Chris Yanes instead. Yanes will 
be the honorary Mr. Two Bits for 
Saturday’s football game. 
“All three finalists had strong videos, but the committee felt that 
Chris most closely matched the 
qualities desired for an honorary 
Mr. Two Bits,” said Daniel Apple, a 
UAA assistant director of communi-cations.
He said the committee wanted 
someone with enthusiasm, passion and creativity who understood the history of the tradition and its im-portance.
Apple said although there has 
never been a female student Two Bits competition winner, former All-American Gator softball pitch-ers Stacey Nelson and Hannah Rog-
ers, UF alumnae, were invited to be 
honorary Two Bits for the Louisiana 
State University game in 2014.
As of press time, Swango’s vid-
eo had more than 13,000 views on 
Facebook, almost double that of the 
previous winner, Michael Cizek, and more than quadruple that of Yanes.
Cizek endorsed Swango on Sun-
day night after sharing her video on Facebook with the caption, “Want my two cents for Two Bits? Pick Becca Swango!”The previous winner wrote in a 
message that the judges would have had a hard time not picking Swango, 
as she “is passionate about helping 
others, a leader amongst her peers, and is truly a friend to all.”
But after the UAA named Yanes 
the winner on its website, Swango said she was happy for him.
“He’s so, so passionate, and I’m 
glad he got this opportunity,” the 21-year-old said. “I’m glad I got to show my side, too.”
Yanes, who will be Mr. Two Bits 
at the University of North Texas game, said he’s been watching UF 
football games since childhood. 
“I think this past weekend was 
my 36th consecutive home football 
game,” the 23-year-old UF architec-ture and urban planning master’s 
student said. “I want to be the guy, 
when I’m 60 or 70, who’s been to hundreds of football games.”
His family will be cheering him 
on this weekend, he said.
“It will be the most authentic 
rendition since (the original Mr. Two Bits) did it himself,” Yanes said.
Former runner-up chosen for honorary Two Bits after competitionThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORNo days oﬀ   for 
Santa Clara Police 
Department
Where does responsibility come from? At what point 
can someone abandon his or her sworn obliga-tions? While the discussion surrounding San Fran-cisco 49ers football player Colin Kaepernick’s deci-sion to lead a national protest is growing stale and 
tiresome, the reaction by the Santa Clara Police Department is so irresponsible, so reckless and so downright childish that a continuation of this discussion is sadly necessary.
The department has threatened to boycott San Francisco 
49ers home games in response to Kaepernick’s protests. A let-ter published by the Santa Clara Police Ofﬁ  cers Association called Kaepernick’s statements “incorrect and inﬂ  ammatory.” While Kaepernick wearing socks depicting pigs in police rega-lia is perhaps disrespectful and distasteful, the statements he made regarding the relationship between black Americans and the legal system are not wrong. 
Independent of all the mush we’ve been sifting through for 
the last few weeks, the decision by law enforcement agents — roughly 70 ofﬁ  cers patrol the stadium on game days — to boycott the games is nothing more than whining. 
The ofﬁ  cers who supported that letter, declaring their po-
tential protest had a lapse in judgment. These people are civil servants who have volunteered to protect and serve the com-munities in which they work. That obligation does not disap-pear because they disagree with something someone said.
The bottom of the letter reads, “Our members, however, 
have the right to do their job in an environment free of unjus-tiﬁ  ed and insulting attacks.” Read that again. One more time. Are these ofﬁ  cers talking about safe spaces? These ofﬁ  cers need to learn that free speech should not be fenced in, and people are entitled to disagree with you. 
Even without all the political crap included, withholding 
protection from nearly 70,000 fans in Levi’s Stadium, the press, the staff working the game, the teams and their coach-ing staffs, etc., is terrifyingly dangerous. 
Here at UF, a new clear-bag policy has been enacted to 
ensure the safety of all spectators and players as well as those working on and off the ﬁ  eld. Safety is becoming a bigger and bigger concern in this country, and the Santa Clara Police De-partment has threatened to s--- the bed here. 
At Monday’s game, a fan at Levi’s Stadium ran onto the 
ﬁ  eld and delayed the game before being apprehended by law-enforcement agents and stadium security. If this boycott were held, how crazy could situations like that get? How unbeliev-ably out-of-hand could things be? Realistically, if such a boy-cott were to happen, it’s likely the game wouldn’t even make it to kickoff for security reasons. Imagine the nationwide pan-demonium at millions of delayed fantasy football games!
In all seriousness, this issue is one we’ve seen before. Not 
long ago, police threatened to boycott Beyoncé’s concerts be-cause her music’s overt political statements about police bru-tality. The statistics are as undeniable as they are scary. 
If law-enforcement agencies really want to quell the stig-
mas and the stereotypes associated with them, threatening to further abandon the people they serve is not how to do it.Technology is the wrong form of escape
The famous French and Christian phi-losopher Blaise Pascal once said, “All of humanity’s problems stem from man’s inability to sit quietly in a room alone.” Pascal seems to be ﬂ  irting with deep 
philosophical truths in this insight, but I want to tamper with Pascal’s statement: A good number of our problems today stem from our unwilling-ness to sit quietly without a phone in a room alone. Why do I — and Pascal — believe this behavior is a problem?
When people are unwilling and unable to be alone with 
their thoughts, that speaks, I think, to the deep level of insecurity and angst stirring inside them. When I look at myself in a mirror, for example, oftentimes I have to battle deep anxieties about my appearance. To be honest, I try to avoid mirrors, mostly because I don’t want to recog-nize those bleak feelings. But that is exactly my and Pas-cal’s point: Humans are in constant motion, are constantly seeking a form of distraction, simply because they do not want to stare their own shame and self-loathing in the face. We busy ourselves with small and trivial pursuits in order to restrain the feelings of inferiority that consume us when we are still.
But it is not healthy, psychologically or spiritually, to 
constantly avoid one’s angst. Indeed, I think a life cen-tered on self-distraction is not a fully human life. At some point, we all must realize what we are ﬂ  eeing from, what we are seeking to avoid in all of our activity: We dislike who we are. 
What other truth would we be trying to avoid? It is too 
painful a thought to bear, and yet I feel its poison plaguing my conscience. I wonder if you do, too.
This column, however, is not a philosophical treatise 
on human identity but a meditation on technology. I want to explore this theme of how technology’s soaring inﬂ  u-ence has impacted our cultural setting in the upcoming weeks. It seems to me one of the biggest effects technology, speciﬁ  cally the smartphone and so-cial media, has created today is the enabling of people to escape from themselves. People never need to be alone anymore, because at the tip of their ﬁ  ngers is a device that connects them to the ends of the earth.
In fact, a person never really is alone any-
more. There never is any true silence in a per-son’s life. There is always music in the back-
ground or in my headphones, or I’m playing “Pokemon Go,” or I’m on Facebook, or I’m watching a YouTube video — but rarely am I surrounded by silence. What are we too afraid to hear when we are not actually listening to anything?
I wonder what we have lost in this respect, in losing 
the ability to reﬂ  ect in solitude. I ﬁ  nd that during the last moments of my day, before I drift to sleep, I am on Facebook when I should be praying or reﬂ  ecting on my day. Social media certainly keeps us connected with people whom, in an earlier time, we would not be able to see or communicate with. But I fear people are slip-ping into dangerous behavior. Instead of supplementing real life with social media, it appears to me more and more people are trading real life for the social media ex-perience.
It seems modern people are rather bored with reality. It 
doesn’t match the thrill of getting likes or keeping up with celebrity gossip or watching a friend’s hilarious Snapchat video or live-tweeting MTV’s Video Music Awards. Real life has limits; it’s brutal, and people can immediately see my ﬂ  aws. However, life through my phone and computer screens is limitless; it’s jovial, and people can only see the side of me I decide to make known. The effects of this growing attitude I hope to explore next week.
Scott Stinson is a UF English and philosophy sopho-
more. His column appears on Wednesday.
Scott Stimson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
This is part two of a two-part column. 
Last Wednesday, the Alligator ran part one. To read the full story, visit 
alligator.org.
One night, when Lizzy was sleep-
ing at Nate’s place, Mara and Jessica stum-
bled into the apartment on either side of a 
handsome guy with short black hair. I was 
in the kitchen making eggs.
“We are going to get high!” Jessica said as 
she stumbled into her room. 
The handsome boy walked in after her, 
but I stopped Mara before she could follow. I asked if she wanted some eggs. For some reason, I couldn’t stomach the thought of her kissing that guy, although I didn’t really 
mind if Jessica did.
Mara and I ate together. I apologized for 
being so standofﬁ  sh that ﬁ  rst night of col-
lege. I invited her to come sit in my bed with me. Then, Jessica came into my room and 
crawled into the bed as well. Jessica told me she wanted to go to sleep and that 
she wanted the handsome boy to leave. He was using her bathroom.
I got out of the bed and waited 
for him to get out of the bathroom. I told him my roommates were drunk and tired, and it was time 
for him to go home. He didn’t pro-
test.
I got back into my bed and 
stared at the ceiling with my two roommates. Eventually Jessica went to her room, and it 
was just Mara and me. We were close, gently 
touching toes, and I kept staring at her lips. I wanted to kiss her. I felt her soft skin rub against my arm, and she smelled like vanilla 
and her hair looked silky and smooth. But 
she was drunk, she was my roommate and she was supposed to be my close, platonic friend. I told her I wanted to go to sleep, and she went to her room.
I struggled with romantic feelings for Mara after that. Every day I fell a little harder for her. But I kept my mouth shut. She started see-
ing Donovan, a pretty, blonde se-
nior. As they got more serious, I tried harder to suppress my feel-ings. I planned on moving out at 
the end of my lease Aug. 1. I ap-
plied to transfer to UF, and I got in. I became distant. Sometimes I 
could hear her and Donovan having sex in her bedroom.
One day in June, Mara and I were sitting 
on the couch in the living room smoking pot and watching Food Network.
“I’m in love with you,” I said, without re-
ally thinking about it.
Mara told me she wasn’t going to leave 
Donovan.
I couldn’t sleep. I smoked cigarettes. I 
drank. I wrote songs. I cut a couple of slices 
into my forearm.Getting over somebody is difﬁ  cult, but I 
would like to think it’s possible. I would like 
to think you just have to spend a lot of time 
avoiding that somebody. You just have to 
write some songs. You just have to get under somebody else. You just have to move out.
Aug. 1 came and went. I moved out. I’m 
dating somebody else. Mara is still with Don-ovan, but he joined the Peace Corps and is leaving for Senegal in October. The thought of her heartbroken and lonely after he moves to the other side of the world brings me a 
tinge of sadistic joy.
Mara called to wish me a happy birthday 
last week. She said she missed me and she 
still wanted to be my friend. I’d like to think 
I’m over her, but then, I’m not sure if it’s 
that easy. I moved to a new city and got a girlfriend, but is that getting over it? Or is it just trying?
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Roommates, part two: After falling in love, is it possible to get over them?Column
Jeremy Haas
opinions@alligator.org
As individuals in a complex society, we feel comfort by putting labels or stereotypes on people. It gives us a 
sense of safety. As members of a 
mammalian species, we don’t like 
to relate to situations or things we are not able to recognize. 
Therefore, we will always fear the un-
known and avoid the feeling of uncertainty. 
Sadly, this comes at a price. When we learn and gain knowledge about something, we will do anything to not lose control over it. Therefore, when inevitabilities are present-ed in our lives, we are unable to manage them in the best way possible. 
Who hasn’t met someone, enjoyed his or 
her company and then unexpectedly become disappointed after a while? For example, I met an incredible guy whom I had a crush on for years. After many years of friendship, we began a relationship ﬁ  lled with shenani-gans, jokes and a lot of fun. A few months later, my heart was broken when I realized his priorities didn’t in-clude me. He was making deci-sions that jeopardized the trust I invested in him. I never thought he would be capable of executing such betrayal, but he was.
This emotion cannot be com-
pletely evaded due to our human 
nature and our lack of inﬁ  nite 
knowledge. So, how can we han-dle such feelings of disappoint-ment? 
Because this is a behavioral situation, 
and our brain won’t be able to process it by just pumping a chemical out of our cells, we must develop an external mechanism to help us glide through the process. 
Our defense mechanisms will try to ﬁ  ght 
the fear and anger, and they will try to make us resort to what we consider comfortable. In other words, our defense mechanisms will convince us to go back to our comfort zone. 
Here’s an example: when 
you’ve just broken up with your girlfriend and feel the urge to get back together. Without a valid, logical and emotive reason, we 
must not let our conditioning dic-
tate our decision-making process. 
Just like Pavlov trained dogs to 
salivate when they heard a bell, 
we have trained our brain to correlate situa-
tions, stimuli and sensations to feelings. For 
example, when someone hugs you for long periods of time, you train your brain to un-derstand that this means care and affection. 
Consequently, we can reason that those 
bitter feelings of pain and despair are just our perception of reality. Now that we are aware of this, we are able to rewire our brain to think differently about our feelings and improve our emotional states. If your heart is broken, take a moment to analyze the situation bit by bit, and ﬁ  nd the logic 
behind your loved ones’ actions. 
You will eventually ﬁ  nd yourself trac-
ing lines between your feelings, logic and 
emotions. Eventually, the time will pass, 
and the feelings will be weakened by your 
mental strength. 
If you or people you know are struggling 
with their personal lives, just be supportive of emotions, ﬁ  nd logic within the situation 
and remind yourself, or the person, this is 
not objective reality but rather your percep-tion of it. 
You — and anyone else — can get 
through this. So be compassionate, and help others who might experience these struggles.
Andrea Taboada is a UF microbiology 
senior. Her column appears on Wednesday.
The chemistry behind betrayal and handling the resulting disappointmentColumn
Andrea 
T aboada
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
LOCAL
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
The scent of sage and a Native-
American prayer song ﬁ  lled the air 
Tuesday as dozens protested pipe-lines proposed in North Dakota and Florida.
At about 4 p.m., about 50 resi-
dents stood at the intersection of West University Avenue and North Main Street. Cars honked in support as the residents voiced concerns about plans to construct interstate gas pipelines through states in the Western and Southern U.S.
The 474-mile Sabal Trail pipeline 
is proposed to run from Alabama to Florida. It would cut through a dozen counties, including Alachua County, according to the pipeline project’s website, but many protes-tors argued the pipeline may con-
taminate Florida’s aquifer.
The pipeline would run through 
the western part of the county, 
near the cities of Newberry and Bronson, according to a map of the proposal on the Sabal Trail Trans-mission’s website. The project is similar to the Dakota Access Pipe-line, which has recently been met 
with large protests because the 
proposed pipeline would run un-derneath what many believe to be sacred Native American lands.
Jenn Powell, who organized the 
protest as a member of local grass-roots organization Alachua County Revolution, said the plans are an ex-ample of corporations lobbying gov-ernment at the expense of residents. 
She said although the Environ-
mental Protection Agency approved the pipeline’s plan despite initial concern, she believes Sabal Trail may have lobbied the agency.
“Corporations poisoning the 
American people for proﬁ  t,” Powell added.
She said Florida’s water supply 
would be contaminated by the pipe-
line.
Thunder Skies, a member of the 
Apache Tribe, banged a cowhide 
drum in solidarity with his fellow Native Americans across the coun-try — and with his fellow Floridians, he said.
Skies said he hoped residents of the county would educate them-selves on Sabal Trail’s plans.
“I hope more people will ﬁ  nd out 
about it,” the Gainesville resident said, “because it’s not in the media.”
Jane McNulty, a 58-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said she learned of the North Dakota pipeline plans before learning of the Sabal Trail pipeline.
“You would think we would 
know more about it in our area, but 
I think it’s been put under the ra-
dar,” she said.
McNulty said she hoped Sabal 
Trail — and passersby — would learn of the protest and take opposi-tion to the pipeline seriously.
Marci Munden lit a sage bundle 
and spread smoke around the pro-testors, cleansing the area in accor-
dance with Native American tradi-
tion.
Watching protesters in North 
Dakota get attacked by dogs and pepper spray motivated her to pro-test Tuesday, the Lake City, Florida, resident said.
If it can happen there, she said, 
it can happen in Alachua County, 
which faces the same threat of envi-
ronmental hazards. 
“If we don’t stand up now, it’s 
gonna suck for our children, our grandchildren, our great grandchil-dren,” Munden said. 
mvassolo@alligator.org
@martindvassolo 
 Dozens protest North Dakota, Florida oil pipelines
Sabal Trail Transmission
The proposed pipeline would run through Alabama, Georgia and Florida.
Burning sage, which is sacred to Native Americans, on the corner 
of University Avenue and Main Street, Marci Munden chants for clean water for the people of North Dakota. “This is sacred work, ” Munden, 53, said of protesting the proposed oil pipelines.
From left: Nkwanda Jah, 62, and Tracy Marinello, 52, protest the Dakota Access and Sabal Trail pipelines near the Pop-a-T op convenience store on Main Street on Tuesday. “These pipelines are mostly for export, not for the beneﬁ  t of the people, ” Marinello said. “We take risk without any beneﬁ  t. ”WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
advertising@alligator.org352−376−4482
MASSACHUSETTS . . . 09 /02
KENTUCKY . . . . . . . . 09 /09
NORTH TEXAS . . . . . 09 /16 
LSU . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10/07
MISSOURI . . . . . . . . . 10/14
GEORGIA . . . . . . . . . . 10/28  
SOUTH CAROLINA . . . 11/10
PRESBYTERIAN . . . . 11/18
SEC CHAMPIONSHIP . . 12/02
CONTACT YOUR SALES REP!ADVERTISE IN  
THE ALLIGATOR’S 2016  
FOOTBALL EDITIONS15%AND
SAVEKICK OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUMRUN 5 OUT OF 9 DATES
KICK
 OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
ABOVE:
Thunder Skies, a member of the Apache tribe, plays a hand drum 
in downtown Gainesville on Tuesday for his brothers and sisters in North Dakota, who are ﬁ  ghting against an oil pipeline being built on their land.
RIGHT: 
Protesting in the midday heat, Nkwanda Jah, 62, yells to passing cars about preventing the Dakota Access Pipeline from being built. Jah held a ﬂ  ag, which symbolizes blood, people, land and life, on West University Avenue to stand in solidarity for the Dakota peo-ple’s wish for clean water.
Protesting the proposed North Dakota oil pipeline, Sam Markowitz holds a modiﬁ  ed American ﬂ  ag in downtown Gainesville on Tuesday afternoon. “I’m trying to do my part (to help), ” the 23-year-old UF wildlife ecology senior said. Markowitz said he felt galvanized to protest when he heard about the violence against the North Dakota people.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-3-16-29-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Mattress SaleNew - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 AutosWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
ACROSS
1 Hershey’s toffee
bar
5 Res __ loquitur:
the thing speaks
for itself
9 Online shopping
mecca
14 Chip in a chip15 Seasonal song16 Hunky-dory17 Start of a knitting
project
18 Prefix with space19 Dry Italian wine20 Tailpipe emission23 Hot state24 Beatty/Hoffman
box office flop
28 Tug-of-war
injuries
32 Former fillies34 Ready for a refill35 Freelancer’s email
attachment: Abbr.
36 Glider on runners37 Flowing garments38 Sonar signal39 Word in a bride’s
bio
40 Went a-courting41 Two-time US
Open winner
42 Hair-smoothing
hairs
45 Library machine46 “__ the Walrus”47 Shellfish
cookouts
54 Medicare
prescription drugsection
57 Pre-coll.58 Brandy bottle
letters
59 Prospero’s
servant
60 Highest sudoku
digit
61 Hip bones62 Free, in France63 Armoire feature64 Counting-out
word
DOWN
1 Cyber Monday
event
2 Fort with lots of
bars3 “Then again,” in
tweets
4 Fixed
5 “Be right with
you”
6 Pound, but not
ounce
7 Medieval laborer
8 Six-time All-Star
Moises
9 Slips past
10 __ pork:
Chinese dishserved withpancakes
11 Letters often
after a perp’s
name
12 Loo
13 Corrosive
substance
21 “Exodus” author22 Money makers25 Warbles
26 Musical set in an
orphanage
27 Replies to an
invite, for short
28 Make available
29 “__ coffee?”30 Louvre Pyramid
architect
31 Pages with views32 Rachel Maddow’s
network
33 Final Olds made
37 Charming
snake?
38 2007 animated
film in which Stingvoices himself
40 Coax41 Big chunk43 Many a
bridesmaid44 Less cluttered48 Shift 
(for oneself)
49 Hodgepodge50 “How awful!”51 Cruise stop52 Pork choice53 Do a vet’s job54 Chum55 NPR journalist
Shapiro
56 Bone in a cage
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/14/1609/14/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, September 14, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
Designated drivers are the greatestNewly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ENO HAMMOCKS!
Single and Double Nest Hammocks - lots of colors in stock now. Just 1 mile N of UF on 13th St. Lloyd Clarke Sports. 352-372-7836     9-20-16-5-18Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Baggies & Board Shorts Sale!
Patagonia, Columbia, Vissla, Billabong and 
Quiksilver. 30-50% OFF! Just 1 mile N of UF 
on 13th St. Lloyd Clarke Sports. 352-372-7836    
9-20-16-5-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
What makes you tick?
The non-profit Center for Applications of 
Psychological Type is seeking volunteers 
who want to explore their personality in a study looking at the links between knowl -
edge of personality, behavior, and attitudes 
towards others.
You will receive compensation, take a free 
personality assessment, and receive expert 
feedback on your results. To learn more and 
take a brief eligibility survey:
www.capt.org/etv
etvstudy@capt.org
(352) 375 – 0160
9-20-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21NOW HIRING UF/SFC Students 
Production / Delivery / Stock Clerks
$10 - $13/hr
Apply at: SmokinNotes.com/Production
9-19-16-12-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working studentPART-TIME / LAND MAINTENANCEON WEEKENDS.Start at $10/hr.Contact: FairOaks1879@aol.com     9-14-16-5-14
Home/Apartment/office cleaners needed ASAP. Weekly pay 8.50/hr $200-$350 week-ly. Must have a reliable car of your own and be able to pass a drug/background check. If really interested please call 352-214-0868.     9-15-16-5-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 24 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     9-23-16-10-14
Mortgage company looking for part-time lead originators. $12/hour plus bonus. Weekday evenings. Students preferred. Email your contact info or resume to mike@AmericanFinancial.loans     9-16-16-5-14
Oak Hall School is looking for coaches in the sports of soccer (girls) and tennis (girls). Application and more information can be found at www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment    9-22-16-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-151. LANGUAGE: How many letters 
are in the Russian alphabet?
2. MOVIES: Who rode a horse 
named Trigger in old Western movies?
3. CITY NICKNAMES: Which U.S. 
city is known as the “The Big Easy”?
4. GAMES: What chess piece can 
move only diagonally? 
5. GEOGRAPHY: Kathmandu is the 
capital of which country?
6. AUTOS: What is the best-selling 
car of all time?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the current name of the coun-
try once known as Siam?
8. ENTERTAINERS: Which actor 
was known for the line, “Baby, you’re the greatest”?
9. TELEVISION: What is the name 
of the company featured in the Wile E. Coyote cartoons?
10. SCIENCE: What part of the cell 
contains the DNA and controls the cell?
Answers
1. 332. Roy Rogers3. New Orleans4. The bishop 5. Nepal 6. Toyota Corolla7. Thailand8. Jackie Gleason as Ralph Kramden 
in “The Honeymooners”
9. Acme10. Nucleus
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 12, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
23 Rides 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 PersonalsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida's 2017 football schedule released
UF will ofﬁ  cially open the 2017 football season against Michigan at AT&T 
Stadium, home of the Dallas Cowboys, the Southeastern Conference an-nounced Tuesday. Other games include visits from Northern Colorado, UAB, FSU and T exas A&M as well as a trip to LSU. Rhamat Alhassan and the 
Florida volleyball team faces FSU tonight.Read the story on pg. 15.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
Bryan Cox Jr. has seen top-
notch defensive linemen come 
and go during his time at UF.Sharrif Floyd. Dominique Eas-
ley. Dante Fowler. Jonathan Bull-ard. Alex McCalister. The list goes 
on.
Each year, at least one seem-
ingly makes the jump to the NFL.That doesn’t faze Cox — or 
anyone else on Florida’s defense, 
for that matter.
They know there will always 
be talent coming back.
“You’re always trying to be 
a top-notch defense no matter what,” said Cox, a redshirt senior. “No matter who you’re losing or who will be back, we’re just trying to be the best.”
Through two weeks, Florida’s 
defense has played well enough to arguably be one of the best in this young season.
The Gators are second in the Football Bowl Subdivision in to-tal yards allowed per game (168), tied for sixth in scoring defense (allowing 7 points per game), tied for third in total sacks (nine) and tied for 13th in turnover margin (+3).
The group made a statement 
against Kentucky, holding the Wildcats to just 149 yards of of-fense and three pass completions while forcing ﬁ  ve sacks and three interceptions.
“It’s deﬁ  nitely a sense of 
pride,” redshirt sophomore Taven Bryan said of the group’s success. “Not only ourselves and individu-
als, but as a team, it’s kind of how 
we were like raised when we were brought into this program. We can’t let that fall out.”
Florida is doing that early by 
making the most of its depth.
Defensive line coach Chris 
Rumph said last week that his 
plan is to use a rotation of about 
10 players throughout the season.
“Those guys have got one 
tank,” Rumph said. “There ain’t 
no second wind with those guys. 
There’s one tank. Once it’s empty, it’s empty. So my job as a defen-sive line coach on Saturday is to make sure that by the fourth quar-ter, they still have something in the tank to go. The more guys we can get to rotate and play — and not just rotate to rotate, but guys to go in and give us quality reps — the better off the team will be.”
And it’s not just one player  Defensive line wreaking havoc early in season 
UF held UK to 149 yards
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Six matches into her 22nd 
season at the helm of Florida 
soccer, coach Becky Burleigh continues to preach the impor-tance of a team-ﬁ  rst mentality.It’s a mantra that’s allowed 
the 48-year-old to build one of the top coaching resumes in all of Division I women’s soccer, and it has been a key to the No. 5 Gators’ (5-1) early season success.
UF boasts one of the top of-fenses in the Southeastern Con-ference behind a selﬂ  ess scor-ing attack that ranks ﬁ  rst in both points per game (10) and assists per game (three).
Florida has also seen seven 
different players score goals this fall, and that balanced dis-tribution is not a coincidence.
Burleigh has repeatedly 
worked with her players on developing chemistry and sup-port with one another, such as the rock-paper-scissors tour-nament she held at a practice several days before their Sept. 4 win against Oklahoma State.
“Everybody was paired 
up, and if you won, then you 
moved on, and if you lost, then you had to support the person that beat you,” Burleigh said. 
UF soccer building team chemistry with unusual methods 
Burleigh
WOMEN'S GOLF
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Senior Kelly Grassel didn’t re-
ally break out for the Gators until 
her junior year.
The Chesterton, Indiana, native had a solid campaign last season, winning her ﬁ  rst tournament of her college career, adding three additional top-15 scores and ﬁ  nish-ing in a tie for 20th in the NCAA Championships.
But last year in the Mercedes-Benz Collegiate Championship, she ﬁ  nished at 10 over par in a tie for 34th, something she wanted to im-prove upon.
And she did. Grassel posted the best score of 
her collegiate career — 5 under par — to take sole possession of sec-ond place and help propel Florida to its ﬁ  rst tournament win of the season.
In the ﬁ  nal round of the Mer-
cedes-Benz Collegiate Champi-onships, No. 7 Florida erased a 7-stroke deﬁ  cit to claim the title and become the only team in the ﬁ  eld to ﬁ  nish below par. 
This was, in part, due to three 
top-10 performances by Grassel, sophomore Sam Wagner and junior 
Led by Grassel, Florida  wins ﬁ  rst tournament of Fall seasonSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 14
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 14
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Bryan Cox Jr. (94) practices against offensive lineman Fred Johnson (74) prior to Florida's 45-7 win over Kentucky on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 14   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
showing up each game.
In the season-opener against 
UMass, redshirt freshman Jabari 
Zuniga led the charge, posting two second-half sacks on back-to-back drives. 
Against Kentucky, it was Jor-
dan Sherit who lit up the stat sheet with two sacks of his own.
And then there’s the Caleb 
Brantleys and the Khairi Clarks of the team, the players who face double- and triple-teams almost every play and open up holes for the rest of their teammates to make plays.
“I just feel like we’re versatile,” 
Cox said. “We’re a versatile unit. You know, any given day, any giv-en guy can get to the quarterback. I think that’s good for us, and it’ll work for us down the road.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg 13Sherit had two 
sacks vs. UK
Taylor Tomlinson.
“I thought Kelly, Sam and Tay-
lor showed real improvements 
in their game from this time last 
year, and Marta showed amaz-
ing poise in her ﬁ  rst event for the 
Gators,” coach Emily Glaser said in a release.
Grassel, who posted a 3-under-
par score on Monday, lowered her 
score further with four birdies and 
two bogeys.
Wagner ﬁ  nished at 1 under par 
in a share of ﬁ  fth place, nailing 
three birdies and not hitting a bo-
gey until the 18th hole.
Tomlinson entered Tuesday 
tied for 24th.
At the end of the ﬁ  nal round, 
Tomlinson reduced her score by a 
stroke with three birdies and two bogeys, tallying a 2-over-par per-formance for a share of 10th place.
After posting 1 under par on 
Monday, freshman Marta Perez slightly fell behind.
Perez failed to hit anything oth-
er than par on the front nine, and on the back nine, she shot four bo-geys and two birdies. She ended the tournament at 3 over par in a tie for 16th.
Despite a rough ﬁ  rst two 
rounds in which she went 10 over par, senior Sydney Needham had a good last day.
She hit three birdies, two bo-
geys and a double bogey to tally her round score at 1 over par. She ﬁ  nished the tournament at 11 over par, good for a share of 51st place.
“I’m really happy for the team,” 
Glaser said. “They came out ﬁ  ght-ing today. We talked about play-ing more assertively and going after it, and they were able to do that.”
The next tournament for the 
Gators is the Annika Classic in Or-lando starting on Sept. 25.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org GOLF,  from pg 13Wagner inished 1 under
“The whole point of that was we 
wanted to be able to continue to support one another throughout 
this whole season. … If we keep 
that mentality, then I think this team can do some really cool things.”
One player who has excelled 
at getting her teammates involved this year is senior Savannah Jor-dan.
The three-time All-American 
has tallied seven assists in her ﬁ  -nal campaign as a Gator, already matching her total from 2015 de-
spite playing in 18 fewer matches.
Normally known for her scor-
ing prowess, Jordan has dis-
played a willingness to spread the ball around this fall, and that has 
earned her praise from her head 
coach.
“I think that the attention that 
she gets from the other teams has 
really freed up some other play-
ers on our team,” Burleigh said. “Credit to Savannah for taking advantage of that and being able to utilize the people around her.”
Burleigh will need another big performance from Jordan and 
the rest of her players this Friday 
when they travel to Fayetteville to face No. 25 Arkansas at 8 p.m.
The Razorbacks (7-1) are un-
defeated at home this season and 
rank second behind UF in goals 
per game (2.88) in the SEC.
“Never an easy match,” Bur-
leigh said. “They’re really well 
coached. They play very differ-
ently than us, so it’s deﬁ  nitely a contrast in styles.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org SOCCER,  from pg 13Jordan has seven assists this season 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF coach Becky Burleigh celebrates with her team follwing a 4-0 
win over Arkansas on Oct. 25. 
Alligator File Photo
Karolina Vlckova celebrates with coach Emily Galser during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Defensive linemen Joey Ivie (91) and Bryan Cox Jr. (94) prepare for the next play during Florida's 45-7 win over Kentucky on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
Coming off a season in which 
Florida captured 23 wins and went 
undefeated in Southeastern Con-ference play, coach Roland Thorn-
qvist is looking forward to the start of UF’s Fall matches.
It all begins Friday when Florida 
travels to Durham, North Carolina, 
to compete in the Duke Invitation-al.
“Virtually all our players were 
very active this summer. They 
played in tournaments and trained very well,” Thornqvist said on 
Tuesday. “I’ve seen some of it here in practice, but I’m excited to see it come to fruition in competition and 
this weekend.”
Because his players have been 
competing, Thornqvist is looking 
forward to seeing the progress they 
have made during the offseason.
“These individual tournaments 
are great opportunities for them to 
showcase how much improvement has happened over the summer,” Thornqvist said. “We’ve looked good in practice, but you always find out more when you play out-side competition.”
Florida will showcase new dou-
bles pairings when it opens play this weekend — senior Kourtney Keegan and junior Peggy Porter will compete as one pair, and se-nior Spencer Liang and junior Anna Danilina as another. Thornqvist also said that Josie Kuhlman and Belinda Woolcock, who have been doubles partners for two years, will remain a pair in the invitational.
As coaches pose several goals to 
their players at the beginning of the season, one that comes to mind for Thornqvist is the team’s fitness.  
“Last year, I think we did an ad-
equate job fitness wise, and I think we will emphasize it a little bit more this year,” Thornqvist said. “By the time we get to May and the NCAA championships, we have got to make sure that we are the fittest team out there.”
With this goal in mind, Thorn-
qvist said the beginning of Fall 
training was comprised mostly of 
physical work rather than players 
fine tuning their skills on the court.
But when the Gators finally 
start competing, Thornqvist said 
Florida’s experience will stand out. 
With all seven of the players on 
UF’s roster being upperclassmen, their knowledge on the court has impressed Thornqvist.
“I think all these players, since 
they are veterans, know what to expect and know what to do,” 
Thornqvist said.
Brooke Austin and former dou-
bles partner Keegan are coming off 
a year in which the duo won the 
NCAA championship, and Spencer 
Liang, Woolcock and Keegan are 
expected to play key roles, accord-
ing to Thornqvist.
“They are going to help in little 
things. They all have their little strengths, and we are going to try to 
utilize all of that,” Thornqvist said. 
“But I don’t think this is necessar-
ily a team that really needs strong 
leadership per se. They know al-
ready what to do, and I think (the 
team) is a nice, cohesive unit.”
 
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.orgWomen’s tennis begins Fall season at Duke Invitational
The first match is scheduled for Friday
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Women’s tennis coach Roland Thornqvist smiles during introductions prior to Florida’s win over USF 
on Jan. 27 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
FLORIDA WON LAST 
YEAR’S REGULAR-SEASON 
MATCHUP . 
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
When the Florida volleyball 
team faces No. 13 Florida State 
in Tallahassee tonight, the No. 
7 Gators (6-1) won’t be getting 
much love.
Thousands of spectators will 
pack into FSU’s Tully Gym to 
watch the heated rivalry.
“Tully Gym, there’s nobody 
there cheering for the Gators,” UF 
coach Mary Wise said on Tues-day. 
Wise added that the crowd’s 
severe volume will be a difficult challenge for her team to over-come.
“We’ll have a great opportuni-
ty to work on our nonverbal com-munication,” she said, “because you really can’t hear a thing.”
Caroline Knop, who trans-
ferred to Florida from Michigan in the Spring, has yet to experience the fierce in-state rivalry.
And she can’t wait to get a 
taste. 
“I want raucous crowds. I 
want people yelling obscenities at me,” the junior libero said of the impending matchup. 
“Let’s get crazy.” Knop has been a rock for the Gators in the backcourt so far this season. 
Her 78 digs and 3.39 digs per 
set lead the team in both catego-ries. In addition, Knop has been steady on the serve, dropping over seven service aces — tied for 
most on the team — to only one 
error. 
Knop said the serve has been 
an area of focus for the Gators, an area that should help them take on a solid Florida State defense. 
“Serving and passing is where 
you lose games,” she said. “To put pressure on a team from the service line is something that you will win a lot of games if you can 
do that really well.” 
As for UF’s older players, it’ll 
be yet another chance to stick it 
to the Seminoles.
Last season, Florida defeated 
FSU (6-1) on two separate occa-sions, including a four-set tilt dur-
ing the second round of the NCAA 
Tournament — a match that ju-nior All-Americans Carli Snyder and Rhamat Alhassan dominated. 
The duo scored 45 percent 
of the team’s total points in the December matchup, slamming down a combined 28 kills in the process. 
And despite sweeping their last 
five opponents, the Gators aren’t taking anything for granted, es-pecially with an opportunity to make it three straight against the Seminoles.
“FSU is one of those matches 
that we’re always so pumped to 
play,” Alhassan said. 
“We’re really excited.” 
For Wise and her squad, this 
will be their first match against a ranked opponent since Florida’s season opener against No. 1 Ne-braska. 
But she said they’re ready for 
the challenge.
“It’s what college athletics is 
all about, in terms of the rivalry,” Wise said. 
“We know we’ll get Florida 
State’s best shot.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org 
UF volleyball ready for tough road test against Florida State
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Carli Snyder attempts a kill during Florida’s 3-0 win over Ole Miss on Sept. 25 in the O’Connell Center. 
16   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
This Week in UF Sports
Wednesday:
• Volleyball @ FSU, 6 p.m., ACC Network/ESPN Gainesville 
Friday:
• Volleyball v. Florida A&M, noon, SEC Network+/ESPN Gainesville
• Soccer @ Arkansas, 8 p.m., GatorVision 
• Men’s T ennis @ Duke Invitational Day 1 of 3, Time TBA
• Women’s T ennis @ Duke Invitational Day 1 of 3, Time TBA
• Volleyball v. Jacksonville, 7:30 p.m., SEC Network+/ESPN Gainesville
Saturday:
• Football v. North T exas, 7:30 p.m., ESPNU/Gator IMG Sports Network
• Men’s T ennis @ Duke Invitational Day 2 of 3, Time TBA
• Women’s T ennis @ Duke Invitational Day 2 of 3, Time TBA
• Volleyball v. Marshall, 4 p.m., SEC Network+/GatorVision
Sunday:
• Soccer v. UCF, 7 p.m., ESPN Gainesville
• Men’s T ennis @ Duke Invitational Day 3 of 3, Time TBA
• Women’s T ennis @ Duke Invitational Day 3 of 3, Time TBA
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Antonio Callaway (81) smiles during Florida’s 45-7 win over Kentucky on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Callaway caught a 78-yard touchdown pass from quarterback 
Luke Del Rio and ﬁ  nished with ﬁ  ve receptions for a career-high 129 yards.