By Monica Andrade
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF professor put down 
his running shoes for a pair of 
wheels. 
After completing the Boston 
Marathon ﬁ  ve times, Dan Con-naughton, the associate dean in the UF College of Health and 
Human Performance, is now pre-
paring to take on the Pan-Mass Challenge.
As an avid cyclist and direc-
tor of the Florida Bicycle Safety 
Education Program, Connaugh-
ton said he’s excited to pedal through the 190-mile, two-day bike-a-thon in his hometown of 
Boston, Massachusetts.
Beginning in Sturbridge on 
Aug. 6, the event will take place 
all across the state.
Connaughton has known 
about the event for nearly 25 years, but his father and sister have inspired him to participate after they were both diagnosed 
with cancer in the past year.
The event raises money for 
cancer research and treatment at 
the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, where Connaughton’s sister will begin treatment next week. 
Last year, the Pan-Mass Chal-
lenge raised $45 million, Aman-da Kelley, an account supervisor for Cone Communications, wrote in an email. The event has raised 
a total of $500 million for cancer 
care and re-
search.
“Most par-
ticipants ride in honor of a fam-ily member or friend ﬁ  ghting the disease,” 
she wrote.
To prepare for a ride along-
side thousands of other partici-pants in August, Connaughton 
said he reduced his running and 
focused on cycling.
“Being back home is always 
a pleasure,” he said. “Especially spending time with my family 
and doing the ride with friends 
to do my small part.”
Connaughton’s donation page 
can be found at proﬁ  le.pmc.org/
DC0383.
mandrade@alligator.org We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 152 THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016
‘You lose, you’re done’
UF baseball begins NCAA T ournament play, pg. 18
GNV summer camp looks for volunteers
The camp promotes helping athletes with special needs, pg. 3
American Red Cross to prep pet owners
The Red Cross teamed up with Alachua County Animal Services, pg. 8Local man accused of burglary, fraud
Read more online at alligator.org
Local man accused of burglary, fraud
By Marina Masterson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville has not been hit by 
a major hurricane in the last de-
cade, but the city wants to make 
sure residents are prepared for 
anything.
Hurricane season began 
Wednesday, and Gainesville is encouraging all residents to be 
vigilant until it ends Nov. 30.
“Not only students, but a 
lot of people in the state think, ‘It hasn’t happened to me, so I 
don’t have to worry about it,’” said Mike Spranger, an extension 
community development special-ist.
Spranger, who also serves as 
a professor of family, youth and 
community sciences at UF, said Gainesville residents should plan 
ahead for the season.
“It only takes one (hurri-
cane),” he said. “You cannot be 
complacent.”
Gainesville should be at low 
risk for major storms this year, 
though it is hard to tell and can 
change at any moment, he said.
It is still recommended for 
residents, especially UF students 
who live on campus, to have 
emergency and evacuation plans, Spranger said.Coinciding with the first day 
of hurricane season, the City of 
Gainesville officially launched a 
new event and information web-site, safeGNV.org, to help resi-
dents prepare.
The site includes traffic and 
weather information, bus routes, 
emergency shelters, evacuation 
routes and emergency guides, ac-
cording to a press release from 
the Gainesville Communications 
Office.
Amaleah Mirti, a 20-year-old 
UF biochemistry and history ju-
nior, said she thinks this site 
could be useful to students be-cause it is accessible on mobile devices, but it could still prove difficult to use.
“But I feel like the internet in 
times of emergency isn’t great be-cause sometimes it can go down,” 
she said, “but if UF pushed it at 
Preview then I don’t doubt that students would use it.”
Mirti said she and her house-mates keep bottled water in case of an emergency, and she said it 
is important for college students 
to be aware of how power works in their homes.
Spranger said the most impor-
tant things to have are water, a tank of gas and food for three days.
Filling old milk cartons with 
tap water and buying ramen noo-
dles are cheap ways that students 
can prepare, he said.
“If you wait until the last min-
ute, things may happen to you 
that wouldn’t have otherwise,” 
he said.  Gainesville begins hurricane preparation
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
HANDS IN THE CLOUDS
Part-time art teacher at Santa Fe College and a professional artist for 30 years, Peter J. Carolin, 
53, paints the clouds near the entrance to the Paynes Prairie Observation Deck on Sunday. The wind was strong and swaying his canvas, so Carolin said, “It’s like trying to paint a trampoline when somebody’s bouncing on it. ”
Connaughton
 Professor to cycle in a 
190-mile bike-a-thonFlorida’s 2016 hurricane season began W ednesday
“If you wait until the last 
minute, things may happen 
to you that wouldn’t have 
otherwise.”
Mike Spranger
extension community development 
specialistSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.WHAT’S HAPPENING?
World Sea Turtle Day Celebration 
Celebrate World Sea Turtle Day at the Florida Museum of Natural History on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. with the Sea Turtle Conservancy. Children and fami-lies are invited to tour the Florida Museum’s sea turtle exhibit with staff from the Sea Turtle Conservancy. The free event features sea turtle specimens, a turtle library and stickers and bookmarks for all kids. Children also may create fun crafts to take home, meet sea turtle scientists and play turtle trivia for a chance to win a cool prize. Visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/sea-turtle or call 352-273-2061 for more in-formation.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host an event themed “The Sweet Escape” this Friday from 8 p.m. to midnight in the Reitz Union. The event will feature a comedian, Burpie, a performance by the student improv group, Theatre Strike Force, a sticky wall, ring toss, hula hoop contest, do-it-yourself candy bracelets and necklaces, sno-cones, doughnuts and other assorted sweets. The event will also feature two showings of the movie “Zootopia” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Free bowling and pool tables will also be a part of this GatorNights event. The event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to participate or registered for future Summer B or Fall classes. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event and beginning July 8, all guests must be over the age of 18.
Blue Star Museums May 30 — 
Sept. 5The Florida Museum of Natural History is offering free admis-sion to all fee-based exhibits for active duty U.S. military person-nel and their families, from now through Sept. 5, Labor Day, as part of the Blue Star Museums program. Free admission is avail-able to any active duty Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines or Coast Guard personnel, as well as members of the National Guard and Reserve, U.S. Public Health Service and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps, and up to five family members. For more information, including a list of participating museums and ac-ceptable IDs, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/blue-star-muse-ums.
The Alachua WIC Farmer’s 
MarketHeld every Friday through Oct. 7 in the parking lot of the Alachua County Health Department, lo-cated at 224 SE. 24th St., from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Stop by and sup-port local farmers, and choose from a variety of seasonal fruits and vegetables at great prices. It is open to the public, and these vendors accept cash or WIC (Women, Infants and Children) Farmer’s Market coupons. If you don’t know about us already: WIC is a nutrition program that provides healthy foods, nutrition education, breastfeeding support and referrals to health care, im-munizations and other commu-nity services. If you’re pregnant, breastfeeding or have a child un-der the age of 5, you may qualify for WIC benefits. For more infor-mation, call WIC at 1-800-494-2543 to schedule an appointment!
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgettenberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  93° LOW  70°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Emma Green, egreen@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome, Zj Guinto, 
Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Joseph Fitzgerald, Britney Jenkins, 
  Jessica Lennon, Caroline Rhoades, 
  Mathews Silva, Donovan Vazquez,   
  Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin ErshockVOLUME 110 ISSUE 152
THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writer 
Interest in track and field, 
swimming and table tennis sud-
denly supercedes football, base-
ball and basketball for about two 
weeks every four years — when it’s time for the Olympics.
With the Olympic games in Rio 
de Janeiro starting Aug. 5, one Gainesville gym is hoping public interest includes gymnastics. 
Balance 180, located at 6527 
NW 18th Drive, is holding its 
annual summer camp with the 
theme “Go for Gold,” according to the camp’s website. It will run for three weeks, from July 11 to 
July 29.
This will be the first time in the 
camp’s four-year history that it’s 
held during an Olympic year, said Julie Foster, the camp’s opera-
tions director. 
This year’s camp will also have 
more attendees than in the past. 
The first camp in 2013 had about 
25 campers, but this year’s al-
ready has about 50 athletes signed up, Foster said.
The camp charges on a per-
week basis. A full five-day week 
costs $185, and a full half-day week costs $115, according to Bal-ance 180’s website.
A typical day includes gymnas-
tics in the morning and afternoon, 
crafts and activities throughout 
the day, two field trips per week 
and one guest speaker per day, ranging from Gainesville Police officers to the camp’s own in-terns, Foster said.
One of the main ideas the camp 
promotes is including athletes who have special needs, accord-ing to the camp’s website. 
In the past, about 20 percent of 
the athletes enrolled in the camp have had special needs, and a similar number is expected this year, Foster said. 
She said the camp requires 
each special needs athlete to have one or two volunteers with him or her at all times and that the camp 
is looking for more volunteers.
No gymnastics experience is 
necessary, and volunteers will 
work with the athletes to “help guide them through activities and 
just be a buddy to them, encour-
age them and cheer them on,” Foster said. 
Natalie Ziev coaches at Balance 
180 during the year and focuses on the special needs program, or “adaptive” program. She said dur-
ing regular classes at the gym, 
special needs athletes don’t inter-act with other children, but every-
one mingles at the summer camp.
“Sometimes, for the first cou-
ple days of camp, they may not 
have ever seen a child who has 
special needs,” Ziev said of the recreational students, “but by the end of the week, they’re all hang-
ing out together.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
Local camp seeks volunteers for gymnastics, special needs
Courtesy to the Alligator
Campers practice headstands at Balance 180 Gym during the 2015 gymnastics summer camp.
The camp will run July 11 to July 294   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016
THE GUIDE TO
Leonardo’s of Milhopper
Great Chicago Style pizza, Quick slices now 
available all day and night. On the way to and 
from Santa Fe College. On the corner of NW 
16th Blvd. and 43rd Street. 
Tear this out for 20% OFF meal. 
4131 NW 16th Blvd in Milhopper Square
352-376-2001Pizza
Contact Jessica Lennon for information 
on advertising in the Guide to Dining Out
Alligator Advertising •  352-376-4482
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic ice cream in town! 
We also have an impressive selection of organic 
vegan ice cream, baked goods, sandwiches, fair 
trade coffee, tea, organic beer and free WI-FI.
Mon-Fri 8am-12am Sat&Sun 10am-12amMaude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee since 1995. 
Tea, smoothies, sandwiches, desserts, beer, 
wine, spirits and much more. Great place to 
meet with friends or study groups. Check us out on Facebook–Maude’s Classic Cafe or 
Maude’s Side Car Bar–for more details and 
upcoming events.Coﬀ  ee
Frozen TreatsManuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner 
any day of the week. Come in and check out 
one of the best wine lists in town. Ask questions 
and learn while you wait for the chef to put out nothing but goodness from the kitchen using 
fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about 
our Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 
5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372Italian
Mildreds 
and New Deal Cafe
Mildreds: fresh, casual, quick lunch and 
dinner is great for date night! Check out our 
bar dinners at 7pm on Sat nights, Reserve at 
352-371-1711 or mildredsbigcity@aol.com  
New Deal: UF beef burgers and roman pizzas 
with happy hour from 4-7pm dailyAmerican
Chicken Salad Chick
The best chicken salad in the south. Stop by 
weekdays from 5-7pm. Show a student ID and 
get a free large drink with any Chick Special. 
3045 SW 34th St.
University Towne Center
352-375-3418Southern Style
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, wafﬂ  es, savory wafﬂ  e cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies. 
Vegan/gluten free options. 436 SE 2nd St. 
dailygreendowntown.org
Like us on Facebook 
w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3Organic
Ballyhoo Grille
Proudly serving Gainesville since 1998. We offer the most diverse options ranging from 
pasta, sandwiches, burgers, sushi, salads, 
ﬂ  atbreads, grill items, and fresh seafood. We 
also serve the best wine and beer in town. 
Happy Hour is from 2pm to 7pm daily, plus all 
night on Tuesdays and Wednesdays. If you are 
looking for a unique graduation meal, head 
over to Ballyhoo. We have great service and 
outdoor seating that can accommodate any 
graduation party for the student’s big day. 
Located at 3700 W University Ave. 
325-373-0059Bar & GrillBy Daniel Hopin
Alligator Contributing Writer
About ﬁ  ve years after playing at 
the Common Grounds, previously 
located in the current High Dive building, The Legendary JC’s will return to Gainesville for a show 
Saturday.
The band, which plays a mix-
ture of soul and blues, will cover 
old classics and play original pieces at the Thelma Boltin Center, locat-ed at 516 NE Second Ave. 
A large dance ﬂ  oor will be open 
to guests, who can bring their own wine and beer and purchase food at the show, according to a press release. 
Eugene Snowden said he helped 
form the band in 2001 when he decided to collaborate with other Central Florida musicians to cre-ate a rhythm and blues-style group.  After a month of preparation, the band started playing Wednesday nights at Will’s Pub in Orlando. The band has since played for acts such 
as James Brown, B.B. King and 
Blues Travelers.
“After three months, all of a sud-
den there were 200 people there,” Snowden said. “Then the local pa-per wrote about us and we skyrock-eted from there.”
While several members have 
come and gone throughout 15 years of touring, Snowden said he believes the band is still improving the quality of its music and perfor-mances.    
“Out of everything that I do — 
no matter what I do, no matter what acts I get, what I do on my 
own — I still feel The Legendary 
JC’s are the strongest representa-tion of what I do as a performer,” Snowden said.The only other remaining 
member from the original group, 50-year-old trombonist Clay Wat-
son, said attendees should expect a 
spontaneous and interactive show.
“We might be a bunch of old 
timers,” Watson said, “but you are going to see as much energy on that stage as you will see out of people half our age.” 
 The show is a part of the Jewel 
Box Concerts series hosted by the 
city of Gainesville and Shake Rag 
Culture Center Inc.  
Richard Bassil, a 71-year-old 
musician and Gainesville resident, said he has attended 25 concerts hosted by the nonproﬁ  t center. 
After listening to The Legendary 
JC’s recordings, Bassil said he is looking forward to seeing the band live.  
“They have honed that genre 
of music to perfection,” he said.  “They can deliver the goods.”
Doors open at 6:30 p.m., and 
music will start at 7:30 p.m. Tick-ets cost $25 for couples and $15 for 
individuals when pre-purchased 
at bit.ly/1TYHhBX. Tickets will be $15 at the door, and no credit cards will be accepted.  
 The Legendary JC’s to perform at Thelma Boltin CenterTHURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
UF recently announced a veterinary se-
nior won the national Bayer Excellence in 
Communication Award, becoming the first 
UF student to win the award.
Dr. Brittany Martabano won the award 
in April for her excellent skills in commu-
nications and her commendable bedside manner with clients, according to a press 
release. 
Dr. Martabano, who graduated Satur-
day, said one of her favorite things about 
veterinary medicine is communication. 
Making sure the client is comfortable 
and completely aware of what’s going on with their pet is essential to maintaining 
client relationships, she said. 
“It’s really important when you’re work-
ing in veterinary medicine to have a good 
bedside manner and have clients feel com-fortable with you,” Dr. Martabano said.
Two judges reviewed a video of Dr. 
Martabano conversing with a client about their pet, just as she does on a regular ba-sis. Dr. Martabano said she recorded the video at PAWS (Pets Are Wonderful Sup-
port group) clinic, which helps clients with 
disabilities who may not be able to afford vet care. 
Bayer, a German multinational chemi-
cal and pharmaceutical company, awarded 
Martabano $2,500 in scholarship money 
for winning the college competition, and it awarded another $2,500 for winning at a national level, according to the release.
Each year, Bayer awards a total of 
$70,000 in scholarships, according to the release. 
As a recent graduate, Dr. Martabano 
said she now plans on moving for a year-long internship at North Carolina State University, where she will work in a small-animal hospital. She then plans to apply for an ophthalmology residency, which is 
a specialization in eye problems and sur-
gery.
The college has only hosted the compe-
tition for three years, said Dr. Amy Stone, 
a clinical assistant professor for the UF 
College of Veterinary Medicine. Dr. Stone 
served as a college-level judge, deciding who would advance to the national com-petition. 
Judges on the national level then re-
viewed Dr. Martabano’s 20-minute video 
and submissions from 27 other colleges, 
Dr. Stone said. 
She said judges typically look for signs 
of empathy, eye contact and personal con-
nection in the videos.
“Brittany just has a way of giving her 
entire focus and connecting,” she said. “That is not really something you can teach. She’s perfected it.”
Dr. Martabano’s communication skills 
are apparent from the moment she opens the door, according to a press release from Bayer, which hosts the competition every year.
Bayer believes the skill to passionately 
talk to clients and explain the health issues facing their pets in a caring way is one of the most important skills a veterinarian can master, according to the release. 
“She’s a remarkable young lady and re-
ally wears her empathy on her sleeve,” Dr. Stone said.
josmond@alligator.orgRecent UF alumna prevails 
in national competition 
BOTH PROFESSORS WORK IN 
THE SOLTIS LAB IN THE FLORIDA 
MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 
AND CONDUCT RESEARCH IN 
EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY.
By Justin Ford
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two distinguished professors from the 
Florida Museum of Natural History and UF 
received the 2016 Darwin-Wallace Medal 
from the Linnean Society of London last 
Tuesday for outstanding advances in the 
fields of evolutionary biology, according 
to a press release from the Florida Mu-
seum.
The society’s president, Paul Brake-
field, presented the award at the Burl-ington House in London to Pam Soltis, a 
curator at the museum, and Doug Soltis, 
a professor in the UF Department of Biol-
ogy. The Burlington House serves as the 
Linnean Society’s headquarters.
Matt Gitzendanner, an associate sci-
entist at the Florida Museum’s Soltis Lab 
and a colleague of the professors, said the 
award was given for not just one particu-
lar breakthrough, but also for a number of 
projects that contributed to “a long career 
of pushing the frontiers of plant systemat-ics and evolutionary genetics.”
The lab’s contributions to the Tree 
of Life have put them in the spotlight as dedicated researchers, Gitzendanner said.
The Tree of Life is a research effort that 
provides information about the diversity 
of organisms, according to the project’s 
website.
“We are happiest about our help in 
building the Tree of Life,” Doug Soltis 
said. “Helping to build the plant part of that is something Pam and I have worked 
on.”
According to the Linnean Society’s 
website, the Darwin-Wallace Medal was 
originally awarded to recognize the 50th, 
100th and 150th anniversaries of the read-
ing of Charles Darwin and Alfred Rus-
sel Wallace’s paper, “On the Tendency 
of Species to form varieties; and on the Perpetuation of Varieties and Species by 
Natural Means of Selection.”
According to the website, the paper 
was first published by the Linnean Soci-
ety and read on July 1, 1858. Participants 
must be nominated by Nov. 30 each year, 
and nominations can be made by submit-
ting a form on the society’s website.
The Linnean Society announced in 
2008, as of 2010, the medal would be awarded on an annual basis to recognize 
the continuing importance of research in 
the field of evolutionary biology, accord-
ing to the society’s website.
“When you go to London to get the 
award and realize Darwin and Wallace 
have walked through the same building, 
and this is where the ‘Origin of Species’ came to be… it’s a humbling experience,” 
Soltis said.Two UF professors receive 
Darwin-Wallace Medal 
“It’s really important when you’re 
working in veterinary medicine to 
have a good bedside manner and have 
clients feel comfortable with you.”
Dr. Brittany Martabano
award recipient 
“When you go to London to get the 
award and realize Darwin and 
Wallace have walked through the 
same building, and this is where the 
‘Origin of Species’ came to be... it’s a 
humbling experience.”
Doug Soltis
distinguished professorThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTHURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
President Obama still has six more monthsIf you’re on the lookout for some life coaching, Dr. 
Ben Carson awoke from his slumber, yet again. Let’s see 
what message he brought to Fox News on Memorial Day: 
“America right now is like a cruise ship that is about to go 
off of Niagara Falls with tremendous carnage and death.” Hmm… Never mind. This sounds more like some nightmare he had after seeing “Titanic.” Anyway, we at the Alligator 
would never do you like that. We’d never give you up, let 
you down or run around and desert you. So, relax and fade away into our latest segment of…
Darts & Laurels
Israel just had its ﬁ  rst-ever transgender beauty pageant, 
Miss Trans Israel. Not only was the pageant exclusive-ly transgender, but it also included contestants who were 
Christian, Muslim and Jewish — because nothing truly 
brings us all together like deciding on which girl is a hotter 10.
Kidding aside, this is yet another big step for transgen-
der rights and tolerance, especially when considering the extremist opposition — we saw this last year when an ultra-Orthodox Jew killed a 16-year-old girl and wounded ﬁ  ve others in a stabbing at the Jerusalem Gay Pride parade. So we give this pageant a shining laurel for its testament 
to progress. And these shifts of tolerance stretch beyond 
Israel.
In early May, the Philippines elected its ﬁ  rst transgen-
der woman to congress: Geraldine Roman. Replacing her 
mother on the seat of congress, Roman, also a Catholic, has 
pledged to ﬁ  ght for equality of opportunity and often steers conversations toward the issues, not solely resting her lau-rels on her gender swap. So we extend Ms. Roman a laurel in good faith for her future work and its implications.
We bring up these examples of transgender progress 
in Israel and in the Philippines for a reason. Transgender rights isn’t something new, nor is it a P.C. pandering or lib-eral lack of morals. It’s something people are ﬁ  ghting for in 
the name of civil rights all around the world, and it should 
be viewed as such.  
In other news, Georgia’s under sausage ﬁ  re — not the 
“Georgia on My Mind” Georgia: the other one, the country south of Russia. In the capital city of Tbilisi, a vegan cafe 
fell under siege Sunday evening from a group of more than 
a dozen men wearing sausage links around their necks, wielding slabs of meat on skewers and brawling with café-goers and passersby.
While the exact identity of these brawlers is unknown, 
the café owners and Tbilisians fear they have ties to the ultra-nationalist, rightist, neo-Nazi groups who’ve stirred trouble, marched in the streets and committed vandalism in recent days and months. Obviously, we dart these people 
for their unjustiﬁ  able harassment.
If we may indulge ourselves a moment, though, consider 
this: parading around with meat against presumptive veg-
ans? If these people really are neo-Nazis, they’re not very 
true to themselves — Hitler leaned toward vegetarianism in 
the later part of his life. If vegan cafes were around in 1937, these extremists would be smacking their own Fuhrer with sausage links. Clearly, bigotry doesn’t do well for critical thinking, or common sense.
In fact, we’ll give these people a double dart just for be-
ing a word that rhymes with bath-holes or bricks. It’s a good thing this sort of behavior is all the way on the other side of the world and not in our own political landscape — 
that’d be crazy.If you thought of the last few accomplish-
ments of President Barack Obama, what would come to your mind? It would prob-
ably be his visits to Cuba this past March 
and Japan just last week. The bottom 
line, though, is Obama’s past accomplish-ments have not been here in the U.S.
However, no one can really blame Obama 
for wanting to avoid the riff-raff currently oc-cupying this year’s realm of domestic poli-tics. Most presidents at the end of their terms focus on foreign policy, while America chooses its next 
leader. But the U.S. presidency stands as arguably the 
most powerful position in the free world, and one of the two choices to succeed Obama could lead this coun-try into a spiraling plummet away from what some call 
“progress” and “society.” Americans need Obama now 
more than ever.
To the joy of some, and the grief of many, Obama 
will step down on Jan. 20 to pass the baton to our next president. Hillary Clinton does not move the masses 
with charisma, nor does she have the reputation Ameri-
cans want in their leaders. However, compared to the alternative, Clinton is America’s best hope. The prob-lem is, according to the latest Wall Street Journal poll, 
Clinton only leads Donald Trump by 3 percent. Some 
skeptics may believe media outlets have skewed polls to make the race seem closer than it actually is — if the election was decidedly over months before November, television shows and newspapers would actually have 
to cover real news. Nevertheless, the fact these latest 
polls show such a narrow margin between candidates and could possibly be accurate means the race is too close. The U.S. doesn’t want to leave the fate of this 
country to a 3 percent chance. This is where Obama 
comes in.In a time when the approval of most gov-
ernmental leaders is dwindling, Obama’s ratings are higher than ever. Obama’s cur-
rent rating of 51 percent is two points high-
er than Ronald Reagan’s presidency at this phase. According to Bloomberg, “The surge in Obama’s popularity is ‘critically impor-
tant’ to the election campaign ‘particularly 
when you’re talking about an ofﬁ  cial in the Obama administration being the nominee.’” If Democrats don’t want Trump in the White 
House, they should be pointing to all the accomplish-
ments of the past seven years when looking into the 
future. If Republicans really want Clinton to lose, they should still be going after Obama, not Clinton. Basi-cally, Obama is being cast into the past too early by 
both sides of the aisle.
The chapter on Obama is coming to a close. Presi-
dents recalled from history are not remembered because 
of the policies they enacted in ofﬁ  ce. No one really re-members the success of George Washington’s economic 
policies or Abraham Lincoln’s stance on education. We 
don’t remember these presidents as men; we remember them as symbols. They led the U.S. at one point in time and are remembered for the fact that the country is now 
better or worse off because of them. Political scientists 
are already discussing how Obama’s legacy will mea-sure in units of presidents before him, but that proves difﬁ  cult when considering his second term is months from over. Even though Obama will soon no longer be 
our president, his inﬂ  uence in these next few months 
will be one of the most deﬁ  ning moments of his legacy. America will need him until his very last day as presi-dent, and even after.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical engineering 
sophomore. His column appears on Thursdays.
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgM y great-grandparents fought in Syria’s 
army in World War I for the Allied 
Powers, which eventually earned 
them an expedited path to U.S. citi-
zenship. This historical anecdote al-
lows me to account for my presence in the U.S., 
which I can do without kissing the ground on 
which I was born or giving thanks my family left 
its homeland. 
As none of my relatives or friends died ﬁ  ght-
ing in the military, I have no personal connec-
tion to Memorial Day, and I confess openly I 
am not patriotic enough to blindly memorialize those who have died ﬁ  ghting for the U.S. There is a distinction to be made between remember-ing and blindly memorializing.What I saw this Memorial Day 
was an endless string of adulatory 
and syrupy posts of American ﬂ  ags, 
pool parties and beer, with one un-
derlying theme: the triumph of Amer-
ica. Our way of life, of which violence has always been a crucial part, has 
come out on top, and people died to 
make your beach day possible.
Politicians posted ridiculous pic-
tures in war cemeteries with para-
graphs of vote-getting remarks.
This is not a legitimate way of 
commemorating the lives of those who died 
in supposed service of their country. For one, soldiers die in the service of the State (the gov-ernment), which always posits itself against the Nation (everyday people 
like you and me, and the soldiers 
themselves).
I am not advocating for the des-
ecration of the memory of those who 
have died in wars. In the reading 
of that sentence, one thinks only of 
American soldiers who have died abroad. Conspicuously absent are their victims, as well as American sol-
diers who die upon returning home.
Think of our brothers and sisters 
abroad, like the Vietnamese children whose last 
breath was poison sprayed into their lungs to save them from Communism, or the Iraqi babies who died at the hands of those liberating them from a despot. Or the Yemeni families who walk 
in ﬁ  elds not knowing if they will be eliminated 
by a drone.
I pity those who end up in the military be-
cause, in large part, the recruitment efforts rely 
on the myth of the rugged American individual 
and the false promise of escaping dire socioeco-
nomic conditions. As Martin Luther King, Jr. ex-pressed so poignantly, why should poor Ameri-cans join the military to ﬁ  ght thousands of miles 
away for conditions and rights they aren’t even 
afforded in their own country?
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF 
linguistics master’s student. His column appears on Thursdays.ColumnTHURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgWhom does one remember on Memorial Day, and how does one do it?8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016
THE AMERICAN RED CROSS WILL 
TEACH PET OWNERS HOW TO 
LOOK AFTER THEIR ANIMALS 
DURING NATURAL DISASTERS.
By Kathleen Hyatt
Alligator Contributing Writer
The American Red Cross will be attend-
ing the Alachua County Animal Services’ 
Disaster Preparedness event Saturday to teach pet owners natural disaster prepared-
ness. 
The event will focus on the upcoming 
hurricane season. 
Families with pets have more responsi-
bilities when finding a safe location during 
a hurricane, said Kevin Denney, the Ameri-can Red Cross disaster program specialist. 
It’s been about 10 years since Florida’s 
last natural disaster, and there are many people new to the Gainesville area, Denney said. Pets are another member of the fam-ily.
“So it takes a little extra care,” he said. 
“That’s what we’re trying to get across here.”
Tiffanie Sanders, who is studying veteri-
nary technology at City College, got her first adopted dog, Elsie, from animal services.
As a native Floridian, Sanders said she 
is aware of how serious a hurricane can be. 
“It’s important to always have an escape 
plan,” she said. “I have two dogs myself, 
so if an evacuation were to occur, I have a 
plan of how I’m going to get my dogs, my 
family and myself to a safer location.”
She said she believes it’s important to 
teach new pet owners how to plan ahead 
for the safety of their pets during disasters. 
“Since we are in hurricane season, I 
think it’s good to get us ready and to pre-pare people who don’t know how to handle a dog,” Sanders said.American Red Cross to prep 
pet owners for hurricanes
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
A TRAUMA ENACTMENT
Gator Emergency Medical Response (GEMR) teaching assistants Caitlin Fronce, 
a 22-year-old nutrition alumnus (left), and Sarah Goodwin, a 24-year-old nursing student (center), demonstrate how to properly strap a patient to a backboard in a McKnight Brain Institute classroom on Wednesday night. Biochemistry majors and fellow GEMR students Nazaree Edwards (right) and Naomi Edwin (down), both 20, roleplay a cervical spine holder and patient, respectively.
THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
ALL THE MONEY RAISED 
WILL GO  DIRECTL Y TO 
THE JUVENILE DIABETES 
RESEARCH FOUNDATION.
By Nancy Massani 
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
The Fresh Market will host its 
22nd annual “Hope Floats” Side-
walk Sale from Friday to Sunday from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. to beneﬁ  t the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, an organization that 
funds Type 1 diabetes research. 
All 175 of the Fresh Market 
stores across the U.S. will offer 
hot dogs, root beer ﬂ  oats and ice cream sundaes, both regular and 
sugar-free, for a $2 donation, ac-
cording to a press release. 
Gainesville’s Fresh Market is 
located at 4120 NW 16th Blvd., 
and all the money raised through-
out the three-day sale will be do-
nated directly to the organization.
The Fresh Market’s Sneaker 
Sale also ends Sunday. Along with the annual Sidewalk Sale and 
other events, the store sells paper sneakers to raise further money for research, according to the re-lease. The partnership has result-ed in about $4 million in 22 years. 
Type 1 diabetes is an autoim-
mune disease that causes a per-son’s pancreas to no longer pro-duce insulin, a hormone needed to get energy from food, said Candace Monroe, the develop-ment manager for the Jacksonville chapter of the diabetes research organization. 
The disease cannot be prevent-
ed, and there is currently no cure, according to the organization’s fact sheet. 
Christopher Arcia, who was di-
agnosed with Type 1 diabetes at the age of 6, said the last 15 years have been a challenge.
“Type 1 diabetes can be very 
hard for anyone, regardless of when he or she was diagnosed with it,” he said. “However, it doesn’t mean that it’s impossible to live with.”   Fresh Market to host 
annual fundraiser 
By Cameron Cobb
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History will invite guests to dive into 
its sea turtle exhibit in celebration of 
World Sea Turtle Day on Saturday.
From 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., visitors 
can make crafts, participate in a scavenger hunt, meet sea turtle spe-cialists and tour the museum’s ex-
hibit with staff from the Sea Turtle 
Conservancy at the free event.
Lexie Beach, the conservancy’s 
communications coordinator, said there will be an assortment of priz-es, including sponsoring a sea turtle 
adoption, and the conservancy will 
provide reusable items to promote conservation.
“We just want to teach people 
that anyone can make a difference,” 
Beach said, “even the smallest ac-tions like recycling or not using plas-tic bags, or even a student giving a 
presentation about sea turtles.”
The Sea Turtle Hospital at the 
Whitney Laboratory for Marine Bio-science will have representatives speaking about sea turtles.
“Our goal is to push people in 
a different line of questioning and expand their breadth of knowledge 
on what it is to be a sea turtle,” said 
Catherine Eastman, a sea turtle pro-gram coordinator for the hospital.
She said the group will table the 
celebration, provide activities, an-swer questions and talk about the 
issues sea turtles are facing. 
“Maybe sea turtles aren’t your 
thing,” Eastman said, “but we are all connected on this planet, and your 
efforts — regardless of where you live — can make a huge difference.” Museum to host turtle 
awareness event
SEA TURTLE FACTS
• Sea turtles can migrate thousands of miles when it is 
not nesting season
• A female turtle nests on the same beach each season
• The U.S. lists all sea turtle species, except for the loggerhead, as endangered
• The U.S. lists the loggerhead sea turtle as threatened or likely to become endangered
Source: Sea Turtle Conservancy10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016
By Nealy Kehres
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Seventh Annual Taste of 
Gainesville will host 36 vendors — 
its highest yet — as it raises money for four charities Sunday. 
Scott Costello, the executive di-
rector for the event, said it has two main purposes.
“First and foremost is to raise 
awareness and money to help chil-dren in the greater Gainesville com-munity,” he said. “Second is to bring the community’s passion for food to a fun, cost-effective event that any-one can go to and experience the cuisine of Alachua county.” 
Admission includes unlimited 
beer, wine, soft drinks and food from vendors such as Mojo Hog-town Bar-B-Que and Swamp Head Brewery, Costello said. 
Three local chefs will also pre-
pare a three-course meal, all using the same secret ingredient, during the 2016 Iron Chef Gainesville com-petition, he said. Three celebrity 
judges will make the final decision. 
In the past six years, Taste of 
Gainesville has raised $370,000 for 
local charities that focus on children. Costello said the goal is to raise a record-breaking $100,000 this year. 
Sherry Houston, the executive 
director of Ronald McDonald House Charities of North Central Florida, said it’s an honor to work with Taste of Gainesville and the other chari-ties.
The Child Advocacy Center, Ala-
chua’s PACE Center for Girls and Tyler’s Hope for a Dystonia Cure will also benefit from the event. 
“When we collaborate, we be-
come stronger,” she said. “So to even be a part of a $100,000 event is humbling.”Event hopes to raise record donations with food, drinks
When:  
• Sunday from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
Where:  
• Hilton UF Conference Center, located at 1714 SW 34th St .
Price: 
• $100 in advance and $125 at the doorEvent informationTHURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Q&A with GNV band Duppies
The Avenue spoke with the group’s lead singer, pg. 14THE SHOW STARTS AT 7:30 P .M., AND 
TICKETS RANGE FROM $17 ONLINE 
TO $20 AT THE DOOR.
By Cecilia Lemus
Avenue Writer
Southern California trio Eve 6 will make a stop in town 
Saturday as part of the group’s 2016 tour. Known for its 
1998 hit “Inside Out,” the alternative rock band will per-
form its  ﬁ  nal Florida show in Gainesville at High Dive.
The band will play hits and songs from its 2012 album, 
“Speak in Code.”
This tour marks the band’s third consecutive summer 
tour, which Max Collins, the band’s lead vocalist, said was 
“really fun, but it’s nice to be able to go out and do a headlining set.”
The band — which formed in 1995, broke up in 2004 
and reunited in 2007 — continues to be inspired by the thrill of performing and enjoying its work.
“It’s playing really loud rock music with friends in front 
of people who care to hear it,” Collins said. “There is noth-ing like it. It feels good and we want to do it.”
The tour began May 26, and the band has played in ﬁ  ve 
cities and is “playing some songs which we haven’t really played live before, giving the die-hard Eve-ers something special,” Collins said.
Eve 6 did an online poll to get a sense of what fans 
wanted to hear, and there were clear winners. The redis-covered songs were once forgotten, but nonetheless they are excited to play again, the lead singer said.
“I grew up listening to Eve 6; I think it’s going to be re-
ally nostalgic,” Amanda Desormeaux, an interdisciplinary ecology doctoral student at UF, said. 
The 26-year-old said she is looking forward to the 
band’s classics.
“We are looking forward to a lot; touring the country 
in the summer time is always a great thing,” Collins said. “We are all at that place where we have had this band for a long time and we have our individual pursuits, but when it comes touring season, summer month, it’s awesome to go out and exercise these feelings.” 
Kathryn Harris, 26, a recent materials science and en-
gineering doctoral student, said this will be her ﬁ  rst Eve 6 concert.
“They’re an excellent-sing-along-in-your-car band and 
usually cheer me up,” she said. 
Band members said they aren’t sure about the group’s 
future music production. However, if there is one thing they are sure about, Collins said, it’s the thrill and kick they get out of every performance.
“Our shows are communal events where people get to-
gether and scream the same words at the same time, dif-ferent melodies, and it’s a joyous occasion,” he said. 
Saturday’s show will start at 7:30 p.m., with doors 
opening at 7 p.m. Tickets can be bought for $17 on ticket-
ﬂ  y.com or for $20 at the door.
UF School of Theatre + Dance hosts new show 
The show parodies a well-known wizard story, pg. 12
’90s hit rock band Eve 6 to play at High Dive
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
ABOVE:
Eve 6 will perform songs from its 2012 album, “Speak in Code. ” The group formed in 1995 and reunited in 2007, after breaking up in 2004.
RIGHT:  
’90s band Eve 6, famous for its hit “Inside Out, ” will 
perform at High Dive on Saturday. Doors open at 7 p.m. for the 7:30 p.m. show, and tickets are $17 online or $20 at the door.
By Natalie Calvo
Avenue Writer 
Eleven UF students will perform 
“Puffs; or, Seven Increasingly Event-
ful Years at a Certain School of Mag-ic and Magic,” a parody of a famous wizard story, this weekend. 
This is the second consecutive 
year that UF School of Theatre + Dance students have worked with the creative team of Tilted Wind-mills, a New York-based production company, where UF alumnus John Pinckard is a managing partner.
The production company has 
been in Gainesville for four weeks developing “Puffs” with student ac-tors and scenic, prop, costume and lighting designers. 
Students have worked on this 
production ﬁ  ve-hours-a-day, six-days-a-week, said Ernest Briggs, a graduate student who plays the 
role of Ernie Mac. 
“It’s very funny,” Briggs said. “I 
hope the audience ﬁ  nds the humor in it, but I also hope they ﬁ  nd the heart. It’s very honest and truthful and says a lot about growing up in general.”
“Puffs” is the story of Wayne 
Hopkins, a young boy in America who learns he is a wizard and goes 
off to a school of magic. He is placed 
in a group of loyal, but rather in-ept, young student wizards called “Puffs.”
“Puffs” premieres today at 7:30 
p.m. in the Nadine McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion Black Box The-atre, located at 687 McCarty Drive. The show will also be performed Fri-
day and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and 
on Sunday at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. 
“Unlike many parodies, this one 
has a good bit of heart to it,” said Jerry Dickey, the director of the UF School of Theatre + Dance. “There is a side of the characters that makes you really grow to like them; It’s not straight satire the whole time, it be-comes a bit more sentimental.”
Tilted Windmills will be produc-
ing “Puffs” in an off-Broadway run early this fall. “Puffs” has been play-ing at the Peoples Improv Theater in New York to sold out audiences for the last six months, Dickey said.
Tilted Windmills develops these 
plays in Gainesville during the sum-mer to remove themselves from the theater industry and focus on the show, according to John Pinckard, a two-time Tony Award-winning pro-
ducer.
“I think the way that our actors 
are trained is to be open to anything, 
like losing or adding a scene, or to try something completely different,” said Briggs. “That environment helps people. We’re not closed off. We don’t say no; we say yes to new ideas and new thoughts as opposed to saying no or why.”
The Black Box Theatre has been 
set up to mirror the exact dimen-
sions of the off-Broadway theater it will transfer to, and it will seat 130 people on the nights that it’s show-
ing.
The Black Box Theatre “allows 
the director, creative team and the production designers to really simu-late what they’re going to be experi-encing when they transfer the play to New York,” Dickey said. 
Last year, Tilted Windmills pro-
duced the musical “Volleygirls!” during a similar four-week devel-opment program at UF. During the residency, the creative team lives on campus in student housing.
While the creative team was in 
Gainesville, they conducted panels and workshops for students enrolled in Summer theater classes about di-
recting, screen producing and mov-
ing to New York City, among other topics. 
Tickets are $13 for students, $15 
for faculty and staff and $18 for the general public through the Univer-sity Box Ofﬁ  ce.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator
The UF School of Theatre + Dance will debut “Puffs; or, Seven Increasingly Eventful Years at a 
Certain School of Magic” this weekend.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Performances will be held at UF’s Black Box Theatre in the Na-
dine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion. Tickets are avail-able through the university box ofﬁ  ce or at ticketmaster.com. 
UF School of Theatre + Dance to show wizard parody 
CAMPUSTHURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue WriterTake a sip when…
• Whenever there’s a ﬂ  ashback to Danny 
causing trouble
• Whenever Kevin is wearing a Guy Harvey 
shirt 
• Whenever someone on the show is drinking 
• Whenever the Rayburns shout at each other in 
hushed tonesTake a shot when…
• Whenever a character threatens someone else 
• Whenever John tries to stop his police ofﬁ  cers 
from investigating the murder
• Whenever there is a search for Wayne Lowry
Finish your drink…
• Whenever Kyle Chandler’s sweet, sweet smile 
makes you long for the days of Coach Taylor 
and “Friday Night Lights” 
• Whenever you wish you were in the Keys 
instead of Gainesville
• Whenever you miss Danny’s creepy, 
blackmailing waysSeason two of the family thriller 
set in the Florida Keys was just re-
leased on Netﬂ  ix last week, so you 
know what time it is: time to binge 
watch. 
Following the end of season 
one, where (spoiler alert) the Ray-
burn siblings kill their brother 
Danny and then try to cover it up, the suspense and excitement is on for season two. This may be your perfect summer show, with mur-
der, drugs and family betrayal set 
among the sand and beaches of the Keys. The only thing that may make it even better is throwing 
alcohol in the mix, so here is this 
week’s Netﬂ  ix drinking game: 
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   FRIDAY, JUNE 3
“The T oxic Avenger”
Hippodrome State Theatre
8 p.m.
Tickets can be bought  on the Hippodrome’s website
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219  SATURDAY, JUNE 4
Boyfriend Material Release Party
Civic Media Center
9 p.m.
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   SUNDAY, JUNE 5
7th Annual T aste of Gainesville
The Hilton UF 
Conference Center
1714 SW 34th St.
5 p.m. to 9 p.m.
$100A Celebration of 
Harry Crews
Lillian’s Music Store
112 SE First St.
2:30 p.m.
Free
THIS WEEKEND IN GAINESVILLE
By Shalante Tyson
Avenue Writer
Before I left the U.S., I did a ton of 
research on each city and country I 
planned to visit in order to ensure as much safety as possible. There were quite a few horror stories about be-
ing pick-pocketed in places like Par-
is, but I ﬁ  gured I’d just use common sense. And I don’t want to speak prematurely, but it worked.
When I arrived in Paris from 
London, the train station was loaded with sketchy men and women ask-ing to help me with my bags, offer-ing “discounted” taxi rides and even 
approaching me as I bought my 
metro pass, asking if I “needed any help.” Buying a metro ticket requires no help. Just tell them no, and they’ll go away.
Whether in a train station or at 
a popular site, I guarded my cross-body bag with my life. I like these bags more than a regular purse be-
cause they’re harder to snatch. 
For added security, each morning when I got dressed I put the bag on 
under my coat so it would be partial-ly hidden. Even then, I held my bag 
throughout the day and periodically 
checked inside for my belongings, especially  in the Louvre Museum. Thieves know exactly where to go and who to target.
Although I felt completely safe in 
each city I’ve been to (even walked around alone at 4 a.m. in Copen-hagen, past 10 p.m. in London and 
during the night in Paris’ Latin quar-
ter), I thought I would tell those of you headed to Europe this summer the things that I did to stay safe.
Don’t just look conﬁ  dent, be con-
ﬁ  dent. This comes with research, in my opinion.
Don’t walk around ﬂ  ashing your 
presumed “American wealth.” (In-
cludes having your fancy smart-
phone/camera out everywhere, wearing ﬂ  ashy jewelry/clothes, etc.)
Know where you’re going before 
you go out in public. Before I left my Airbnb each day, I used Google Maps to plan my metro route to my ﬁ  rst destination. Then I made a men-tal note of it. When it was time for my next destination, I either went into a restroom to look at a map or 
checked my surroundings and then 
used my phone. You don’t want to be out head down, looking at a map like a vulnerable, lost tourist.
When I walked around with my 
backpack, I secured the zippers to-gether with twist ties. You know, the little ties that you secure a loaf of bread with. This might not stop 
a thief from trying, but it will most 
certainly be an inconvenience for them, and they’ll probably move on. I bought mine at a dollar store.
Touristy areas: just be aware. 
Don’t get lost in your phone or some-thing else and forget that thieves do exist. Besides, if you’re not taking pictures, you should put your phone 
away and enjoy the atmosphere!
Common sense: Use it. Behave 
the same way you would in a big 
city in your native country.
Don’t become so hyper-aware 
and/or paranoid that you forget to have fun. Be smart and you’ll be ﬁ  ne! 
Surviving Paris and other big cities
TRAVEL ADVICE14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016
Tick tock
Take shorter showers. 
Preserve waterTake shorter showers. 
Preserve waterTake shorter showers. 
Preserve water
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer 
Over the last decade, Duppies has be-
come a staple band on the Gainesville 
music scene. The band has long played at 
venues all over town and has even taken 
their show on the road up and down the East Coast. I sat down with lead vocalist and percussionist Brian Hiebel to talk the 
band’s start and success. 
Kirsten Chuba:  How did Duppies get 
started?
Brian Hiebel: Duppies started 12 years 
ago in Gainesville with eight members who wanted to play traditional Jamaican 
ska and reggae. We met randomly and were united by our former and founding bass player Juan Cardenas. 
KC: How would you describe your 
sound?
BH: Duppies sound is first- and second-
wave ska and rocksteady with a splash of two-tone ska and reggae. 
KC: What has your tour schedule been 
like?
BH: We have multiple years of touring 
under our belt. Mostly East Coast and as far west as Texas. We have plans on hit-
ting the Midwest and Canada in 2016.
KC: What are some of your favorite 
shows you’ve played in Gainesville?
BH: It’s hard to say. We’ve played reg-
ularly in Gainesville for 12 years. Some of the more fun shows would be playing with 
national acts like Slackers, the Toasters and other old school bands in the genre.
KC: How much music has Duppies re-
leased?
BH: We have released three albums 
(“Throw One Punch,” “One Thousand Bullets” and “Broken Organ”). “Broken Organ” best fits our current sound, but we 
still perform a lot of the old stuff live. We 
have plans on releasing a three- to four-song EP late 2016 or sometime early in 2017.
Duppies will play a variety of lo-
cal shows in the next month, including Loosey’s on June 18 and High Dive on June 24. 
Know of any other local bands I should 
check out? Send Kirsten an email at kchu-ba@alligator.org.  GNV band Duppies talks with Avenue
Q&A
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gainesville band Duppies has been a staple on the local music scene for more than a decade. The band has toured 
up and down the East Coast, but the group still regularly plays shows around town.
THE RESTAURANT WILL HOST 
A DJ, DRINK SPECIALS AND 
PERFORMANCES FROM LOCAL 
DRAG QUEENS.
By RaSheba Jones
Avenue Writer 
What happens at Boca Fiesta stays at 
Boca Fiesta.
Boca Fiesta will celebrate its seven-
year anniversary with a ‘70s Las Vegas 
themed party this weekend. The annual anniversary celebration will begin Sat-urday at Boca Fiesta, located at 232 SE 
First Street, at 8 p.m.
The restaurant originally opened on 
June 1, 2009, by Warren Oakes and Jake 
Ihde, said Schylar Davis, Boca Fiesta’s front of house manager.
“We are like a family,” Davis said. 
“Some of us hate each other some days, but we get our jobs done to the best of our abilities.”
The celebration will feature a DJ, 
drink specials and performances by local drag queens, with “only a very stream-lined taco menu offered so that our crew can take the night off and enjoy the fes-tivities,” she said. There will also be a 
photo booth at the event. 
 “People get married on a whim in Ve-
gas,” Davis said. “It will be like a white 
chapel photo booth.”
The Backyard, Boca Fiesta’s outdoor 
food and bar section, will be casino themed.
“People can dress like tourists or dress 
disco or glam,” Davis said. Boca Fiesta is 
partnering with Persona Vintage Cloth-
ing and Costumes to provide 25-percent-off costumes to encourage celebration attendees to wear ‘70s themed costumes.
“You can dress like a Greek goddess, 
and it will be appropriate,” said Katie 
Cousins, a server at Boca Fiesta.
Boca Fiesta will have special hours 
and will not open until 8 p.m. The an-
niversary celebration has no cover, but attendees must be 21 and over.Boca Fiesta 
to celebrate anniversary  BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
$325 1 bed in 2/1 with female student. Includes small privacy fenced back yard to room, sliding glass doors, washer/dryer, dish washer, high-speed internet and split electric 352 631 0737     6-30-11-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.Available 8/1/16. $1300. 
Call / text 239-370-8735    7-28-16-17-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2Walk 1-3 blks from UF.
Avail in Aug:
2bd/2.5 bth $1100.00; 2bd/1bth $1000.00, 
1bd/1bth $650.00-$635.00, studio $500.00.
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com
8-26-16-30-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
6BR 3BA Compound - 2 Houses, huge fenced yard, hot tub, huge warehouse, Walk/Bike to UF and downtown! Pets OK! $3300. 612-229-4138    6-16-16-10-2
BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE  5 bed/ 2 bath, great downtown location.   2 balconies, wood floors,  great character.   320 NW 1st Street.  Call 352-377-3110, or email simp-sonm@ufl.edu.    6-9-16-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
US NATIONAL FOREST FRONT LIQUIDATION5 Acres $9,900!Pristine Preserve PropertyBorders the Country's Best Trail System!Call Today for a Preview Showing1-888- 270-4695      6-2-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10
LP VINYL BLOWOUT SALE!
400+ records $2-$5 (or 10/$18): blues/ 50s r+r / country/1960-80 artist/ jazz/big band (+ 45s/78s). Waldo Antique Village, 17805 U.S. 301 (352.468.3111). BOOTH MJC. Show ad=10% off $20+ other MJC items (except "firm").    7-5-8-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     8-15-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor -
rections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST 
DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one day. No 
refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the 
first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-15-25-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     6-7-16-5-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged 2000-2016 Vehicle Fast! Running or Not. Nationwide Free Towing Same Day Pick-Up And Pay Available Call 888-689- 8647     6-2-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     6-7-16-5-13
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Retired person needs student P/T a few hrs per week (8-12) for yard work, house -
keeping, etc. Home close to UF. $9. per hr. Short resume, reply with time/hrs available. ghpolkgator@gmail.com    6-2-7-14
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14RELIGIOUS EDUCATION DIRECTOR
Unitarian Universalist Fellowship
PT, Sundays reqd, $16K + benefits
Details at www.uufg.org
dresearch@uufg.org
6-2-16-5-14
FT Ophthalmic Tech (on-the-job training avail.) Exceptional social & verbal com-munication skills. Polite & professional. Dependable, good work ethic, reliable trans-portation. Work Monday thru Friday. Great benefits. melissastandridge@gmail.com6-2-16-4-14
Medical Office Assistant
PT for doctor's office. Experience preferred. 
Email resume to: drpohani@gmail.com    
6-7-16-5-14
Now hiring PT Zip Line Guides
Apply at The Canyons Zip Lines8045 NW Gainesville RdOcala, Fl 34475www.zipthecanyons.com     6-7-16-5-14
PART TIMEGENERAL WAREHOUSE MAINTENANCE  Flexibe hours, good driving record and refer-ences. $10 per hr. Call 352-372-2707    6-7-16-3-14
Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
ACROSS
1 Word with time or
money
5 Greek cross
8 Cameo shape
12 It may be 
straight
14 Ostracize15 Spy follower?16 Expenditure17 Home to
Mykonos andMilos
19 Concocts
21 Broad
panoramas
22 Anatomical
pouch
23 Sanctioned
25 __ lab26 Condensed, for
short: Abbr.
27 Schooner part31 Woman
undercover
35 __ String36 Vessels on carts37 Tennis lob
strategy
39 Made a bad call,
say
40 Park that 
opened in April1965
42 Unkempt dos43 Christian denom.44 Guatemala gold45 Election check47 Simile center50 Improvises54 Like the water in
a Simon &Garfunkel song
56 Laundry
challenge
58 New home
subcontractor
59 De Tocqueville
thought
60 Lummoxes61 Online jotting62 With 63- and 64-
Across, meetingplace suggestedboth literally andgraphically bythis puzzle’scircled letters
63 See 62-Across64 See 62-AcrossDOWN
1 Nudges
2 Actress Dern3 Ancient Texcoco
native
4 __ mat5 Popular reading
in New York andWashington
6 National Mustard
Day mo.
7 Like some
parallel bars
8 Has9 Immense
10 Rest __11 Grazing sites13 Neptune or Mars14 “Better Call __”
18 Pitch in
20 Approach to a
subject
24 “Father Knows
Best” actress Jane
25 Figures (out)27 Perform
improperly
28 Iams competitor29 Svelte30 River to the North
Sea
31 Agenda bullet
32 300-pound Wolfe33 Trivial objection
34 Half-brother of
Ishmael
35 GMC Terrain, for
one
38 Maine college
town
41 Pandora
alternative
43 Impart45 NFL ball carriers
46 Footed vases47 Deal out
48 Handle
49 Seller of TV time
50 “Yeah, right!”
51 Extinct bird
52 Stead
53 Actor Robert of
“The Sopranos”
55 Recycling
containers
57 TourBook-issuing
org.
By Peg Slay©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/02/1606/02/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, June 2, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17 
Full time -plus over the summer
WordPress Website Developer 
Expertise in web development
and interface design
Strong knowledge in WordPress
Proficiency with responsive web design
SEO proficiency with friendly techniques
Ability to write website documentation
Experience with e-commerce
Active social media user
Experience with Adobe Creative Suite
Please forward your resume to
hr@gleim.com
6-7-16-2-14
Small company seeking an individual for 
data entry position who has a strong work-ing knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite, can manage general phone inquiries, and is able to work in a high-speed, multi-task environ -
ment. Experienced in working with databas -
es, and able to work well in a fast-paced en-vironment, be a team player, take direction, and have a keen ability to prioritize. This is a small office so team-work is also essential. Candidates should be personable and have a sense of humor. $9/hr. Email resume to: Staff@thekochfoundation.org      6-14-16-4-14
Entry LevelHeavy Equipment Operator Career!Get Trained –Get Certified-Get Hired!Bulldozers, Backhoes and ExcavatorsImmediate, Lifetime Job Placement, VA Benefits National Average $18.00-$22.001-866- 362-6497       6-2-1-14
EXPERIENCED OTR FLATBED DRIVERSEarn 50 up to 55cpm loaded. $1000 Sign Onto qualified drivers. Good home time.Call 843-266- 3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com EOE      6-2-1-14You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?Settle for a fraction of what you owe!Results may vary.Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall &amp; Associates 1-877- 330-3429     6-2-1-15
DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary!Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price Lock-Lock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion!855-479- 7963     6-2-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?You and Your Family May be entitledto significant CASH AWARD.Call 1-855- 389-3099     6-2-1-16Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
22 Tickets
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
A dark-grey color Burberry Watch (steel band) was lost on campus or in surrounding area. Please contact 352-325-9706 if you found it or can provide useful info. Generous CASH Reward!!     6-7-2-25Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800- 224-0305     6-2-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope &amp; Help LineFor a free assessment, 1-855- 995-3142     6-2-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
The end of the termand the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
1. GEOGRAPHY: What is the east-
ernmost state capital in the United 
States?
2. MUSIC: What country was the 
group ABBA from?
3. MOVIES: In what movie was 
the character of John McClane intro-duced?
4. LITERATURE: The line “Fools 
rush in where angels fear to tread” was written by which poet?
5. FOOD & DRINK: Where did the 
potato originate?
6. SCIENCE: Sunlight exposure on 
bare skin can help to form which vita -
min?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: How 
many minutes are in one degree of lon-
gitude or latitude?
8. ADVERTISEMENTS: What 
product’s advertising campaign 
declared that its consumption was 
“The Right Thing To Do”?
9. SPORTS: How many periods are 
in a National Hockey League game?
10. TELEVISION: What was the 
forerunner of PBS, the national public broadcasting service?
Answers
1. Augusta, Maine2. Sweden3. “Die Hard”4. Alexander Pope5. South America6. Vitamin D7. 608. Quaker Oats
9. Three
10. National Educational Television
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 30, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
15 Services 16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 Entertainment
Headline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
On Wednesday, Florida pitcher 
Logan Shore was named  a semifinalist for the Golden Spikes Award, given to the nation's top collegiate baseball player.Horsfield wins Phil Mickelson Award
Florida golfer Sam Horsfield received the Phil Mickelson Outstanding 
Freshman Award, the Golf Coaches Association of America announced on 
Wednesday. Horsfield, also a PING First-T eam All-American, was the first UF freshman to win an individual title since 2006.Jordan McPherson / Alligator 
Dalton Guthrie runs to first base during UF's's 2-1 loss to Mississippi State on April 10. After reaching 
the College World Series last year, Guthrie is looking to lend advice to his younger teammates.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Before he found a shaded spot 
in Florida’s first-base dugout, his 
hands resting on his knees while 
fielding questions from a ring of 
reporters, Dalton Guthrie had a word of advice for his freshman second baseman.
Omaha is worth it.“I kind of talked to him about 
how cool it really is to play there and how bad he really should want it,” Guthrie said he told teammate Deacon Liput. “It’s an experience as a baseball player 
that you never forget.”
Guthrie remembers last year, 
when Florida won eight of its 10 
NCAA Tournament games and 
reached the semifinals of the Col-
lege World Series in Omaha, Ne-braska.
Junior Logan Shore remembers 
the year before that, when the 
Gators lost two-straight games 
to begin the Gainesville Regional and were eliminated from post-season contention.
Shore’s word of advice?
“Every practice could be your 
last,” he said.
That’s how the No. 1-seed 
Gators are approaching their matchup with Bethune-Cook-
man in the first round of the Gainesville Regional on Friday, holding a team-wide mantra that permeates through veterans like 
Shore and every member of UF’s 
freshmen class:Be hungry.“You lose, you’re done,” Shore 
said.
Florida (47-13) is coming off 
of a May 29 loss to Texas A&M in the Southeastern Conference Tournament Championship, a 
12-5 defeat that ended an impres-
sive tournament run in which the Gators won three straight after losing their opener.
The Gators are ready to start 
winning again.
UF will get a much-needed jolt 
to its offense when Peter Alonso, who coach Kevin O’Sullivan said 
will play this weekend, returns to 
the lineup.The junior suffered a fracture 
in his left hand against Vanderbilt 
on May 13 and has been sidelined 
since.
Before Alonso went out, he 
was the team leader in batting average (.352), RBIs (47) and 
home runs (9). He led a UF of-
fense that averaged 6.4 runs per game through the season’s first 50 games.
In the 10 games without him, 
Florida’s scoring average dipped to 4.9 runs per game.
“It’s been tough for us all sea-
son to put the hitting and the 
pitching together in the same 
game,” sophomore JJ Schwarz ‘You lose, you’re done': UF baseball begins NCAAs
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
J.C. Deacon first met Sam Hors-
field and Jorge Garcia in July of 
2014.
Deacon, a former assistant 
coach at UNLV, had recently ac-cepted the job to become the head coach of the Florida men’s golf team after Buddy Alexander retired in April of that year.
Deacon’s first priority? To maintain the star-studded 
2015 class that included Horsfield, Garcia and Gordon Neale.
Deacon, Horsfield and Garcia 
met at Highlands Reserve — Hors-field’s home course — in Daven-port. 
When the rookie head coach left 
that meeting, he had one particular thought in mind.
This team was going to be good.“The biggest thing I noticed was 
how driven both of them were,” Deacon said. “They were both so convinced that they were gonna have a career in golf … and they wanted to make sure that their col-lege career was gonna be a proper stepping stone for them to reach their goals of playing professional golf.”
Almost two years later, that vi-
sion has become a reality.
Although Florida opened the 
2015-16 season finishing outside the top four in three out of four events, things quickly changed.
Florida captured its first title at 
the Florida Gulf Coast University Classic after posting a 13-under 851, 42 strokes ahead of second place. 
Horsfield finished in third place 
— his best finish to that point.
If that tournament was the spark 
to Horsfield’s season, the next tour-nament was the full-on fire.
At the next event, the Sea Best 
Invitational, after firing rounds of 65, 68 and 70, Horsfield collected the first win of his collegiate ca-reer, becoming the first UF fresh-man to win an individual title since Billy Horschel in 2006. To top it off, the Gators won the event, shooting 14 under to win by 23 strokes.
Although Florida would not win 
another tournament the rest of the year, Horsfield continued to make history.
He went on to win two more 
For men’s golf, three talented freshmen lead way to futureFlorida plays Bethune-Cookman on Friday
This Weekend's Gainesville Regional Schedule
Friday:
• Game 1:  No. 3-seed Connecticut  
         v. No. 2-seed Georgia Tech, 1 p.m.
• Game 2:  No. 4-seed Bethune-Cookman  
         v. No. 1-seed Florida, 6 p.m. 
Saturday:
• Game 3:  Loser Game 1 v. Loser Game 2, noon
• Game 4:  Winner Game 2 v. Winner Game 1, 6 p.m.
Sunday:
• Game 5:  Winner Game 3 v. Loser Game 4, noon
• Game 6:  Winner Game 5 v. Winner Game 4, 6 p.m.
Monday:
• Game 7:  If necessary, Winner Game 6  
            v. Loser Game 6,  6 p.m.SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 19
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 19times, capturing the Southern 
Highlands Collegiate and the Ma-son Rudolph Championship to be-come the winningest freshman in UF history. 
And the accolades didn’t stop 
there.
Horsfield was named a PING 
First-Team All-American on Tues-day. 
“He’s got a gift,” Deacon said of 
Horsfield. 
“I think Sam can be the No. 1 
player in the world one day. I think he’s that good. I really do.”
And while Horsfield dominated 
headlines all season long, Garcia 
and Neale weren’t too far behind.
Garcia collected seven top-20 
finishes on the year, including a tie 
for fourth at the Sea Best Invite.
For much of the year, Garcia 
was featured as Florida’s No. 2 player. Then Neale happened.
Neale, who came to Florida as 
one of the top junior golfers in the 
country, was sidelined for much of 
the year due to injury. At the Mason Rudolph Cham-
pionship, with more than half the 
season gone, he finally got his 
chance. Neale, who had the lead with nine holes to play, finished 
second. He finished in the top five 
once more, finishing fourth at the 
SEC Championship. Neale has set 
himself up to be a force for the Gators in the years to come. 
With Horsfield returning for his 
sophomore season, Florida is only 
losing one player, senior Richard 
Donegan, who was featured in the lineup only once this season. In ad-
dition, Andy Zhang, the top-rated 
golfer in the 2016 class, signed a 
national letter of intent in Novem-
ber. Zhang, who played in the 2012 U.S. Open as a 14-year-old, will join UF for the start of the 2016-
2017 season.
Among ups and downs, gradua-
tions and new beginnings, as long 
as Horsfield, Garcia and Neale are at the helm, the future looks to be 
bright for Florida.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator
Sam Horsfield hits an iron shot during Day 2 of the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 21 at the Mark 
Bostick Golf Course. 
said. 
“But now that we have Pete 
back, I think it’s gonna help us 
a lot.”
Florida also hopes that the return of Alonso, who was part 
of Florida’s semifinal run in the 
CWS last year, delivers more 
postseason experience to a young team.
While the Gators have a signif-
icant veteran presence, with play-ers like juniors Alonso, Shore, A.J. Puk and Buddy Reed all hav-ing CWS experience, UF will also 
have to rely on its freshmen, three 
of whom are regular starters.
But to O’Sullivan, that’s no ex-
cuse.
“These guys that are freshmen, 
they’re not freshmen anymore,” the coach said. 
“They’ve been through 60-plus 
games now, so they should be beyond the freshmen stuff right now, experience-wise.”
And Guthrie is determined 
to make sure they’re getting the proper motivation.“It’s something along the way 
that you have to check off your 
list: Go to Omaha,” Guthrie said. 
“I think we’ll do whatever we 
can to get there.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg18Gators hope Alonso's presence will bring leadership to young teamGOLF,  from pg18UF signed the top-rated 
golfer in the 2016 class20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016
RETREATGAINESVILLE.COM | 352-372-6535
1404 W UNIVERSITY AVE STE 10  LEASE FOR AS LOW 
AS $599/MO
®
come and see why life is better in a cottageWelcome  to 
    the University 
              of Florida
2-6 Bedroom Luxury Cottages
RESORT STYLE POOL | EXTENSIVE FITNESS FACILITY | PRIVATE SHUTTLE  
FREE PARKING  | INTERNET & CABLE | OUTDOOR GRILLING  
SELF-SERVE STARBUCKS COFFEE | TANNING  | HOT TUB & SAUNA  
COMPUTER LOUNGE | GROUP STUDY ROOMS   | CYBER CAFE  
 BEACH VOLLEYBALL | GAMING ROOMS
