ABOUT 75 PERCENT OF THE 
PROCEEDS WILL BE DONATED.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Singing love songs to people is nothing 
new for Howard Lin.   
Since joining Phi Mu Alpha, a men’s 
music fraternity, the UF advertising ju-nior has been serenading students.
The fraternity has been giving the ser-
enades for more than a decade as part of 
a Valentine’s Day tradition, said Lin, 20, the social chair of the fraternity. The boys will travel around campus and Gainesville to give the serenades, which cost $30. About 75 percent of the proceeds go to the fraternity’s Relay for Life team.
He said the reactions to the serenades 
vary. Some students love it, and some even cry tears of happiness. One time, a 
girl ran away, he said.
“She came out, got scared, ran on a 
bus and we ended up serenading her 
friend,” Lin said.
He said about 10 to 15 members will 
perform at once. The entire fraternity participates, and those practicing for a planned serenade will run through the song three times before performing.We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 101 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016
JJ Schwarz is looking to avoid 
a sophomore slump
He hit 18 home runs for UF baseball 
last year, pg. 13
Wiz Khalifa raps at sold-out O’Connell Center
K Camp opened for the artist, pg. 5
Students build UF’s ﬁ  rst aircraft
About 45 UF students have been building the plane since 2013, pg. 8Check out our Valentine’s 
weekend roundup
Get a bite to eat with someone sweet, pg. 9
By Katelyn Newberg 
and Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writers
On Thursday, UF announced 
that professors and students 
helped discover gravitational waves.
Scientists with the Laser In-
terferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory have detected the existence of gravitational waves, which are ripples in space predict-
ed by Albert Einstein in 1916. The 
machine scientists used, called a laser interferometer, detected two black holes had clashed into each other, causing a ripple-effect in space.
A group of UF graduate stu-dents and faculty built parts of the detecting machine, which was managed and used by LIGO. UF has been involved with the orga-nization since its founding, said David Tanner, a UF physics pro-fessor and LIGO group member.Tanner said because of the ex-
periment scientists could deter-mine where the black holes were.
“These two signals were two 
black holes orbiting each other at 
20 times a second,” he said.
The event occurred a billion 
light years away from Earth, Tan-
ner said.
“It took a billion years for life 
to develop enough intelligence to build such an interferometer, and we did it just in time,” he said.
Ryan Goetz, a UF physics graduate student, said he’s spent four years working on the LIGO project.
He said the project will allow 
humans to look at the universe in 
new ways.
“It doesn’t change anything 
we know currently,” the 26-year-
old said. “It does change the way that astronomy will be happening from here on out, which I think is probably more exciting than just learning some new fact about the universe.”
UF faculty, students help discover gravitational waves in spaceA song for your love: student serenadesSWEETHEARTS
By Elizabeth Pantaleon
Alligator Contributing Writer
About three months ago, Juan Juarez swiped 
right.
On Sunday, Juarez and his boyfriend, Aaron 
Pirkkala, will be celebrating their ﬁ  rst Valen-
tine’s Day together.
Juarez, an 18-year-old UF chemical engineer-
ing freshman, said Tinder not only led to his ﬁ  rst Valentine, but also to his ﬁ  rst boyfriend.
“With gay relationships, it’s very hard to just 
get into a traditional relationship,” he said. “If 
anything, I feel more comfortable that it hap-
pened through Tinder.”
Tinder has facilitated more than 9 billion 
matches among 196 countries, according to its 
website.
Juarez found a match of his own, and his 
relationship defeats the stereotype that dating 
apps belong to a hook-up culture, he said.
“Memories are made out of the reality of it,” 
he said. “Sure, we didn’t meet by catching one another’s eye in the park or something romantic like that, but it’s the reality of it, and the reality is more romantic than anything.”
High school sweethearts Anthony Rychkov 
and Kemley Nieva said they can see through the stereotypes.
“It doesn’t discredit anything if you started 
on Tinder,” said Rychkov, an 18-year-old UF political science freshman. “But when you go to family and tell them you met on Tinder, it has a bad connotation, although it shouldn’t be that way.”
Nieva has at least two friends whose rela- Tinder couples 
celebrate Valentine’s Day
SEE TINDER,  PAGE 4SEE SERENADE,  PAGE 4
 Isabel Bonnet / Alligator
Cole Lundquist, a 30-year-old UF music education second-year graduate student, serenades a student with his fraternity, 
Phi Mu Alpha, on Wednesday at the Hub. The group will travel campus and Gainesville to give the serenades, which cost $30, donating about 75 percent of the proceeds to charity. 
It was predicted by Einstein“These two signals were two 
black holes orbiting each other 
at 20 times a second.”
David T anner
UF physics professorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a “Hunger 
Games”: The Final Tribute-themed event today from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. 
The event will feature an inflat-
able maze, archery with prizes and free custom dog tags. The event will also feature two show-ings of the movie “The Hunger Games: Mockingjay, Part 2” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free nachos during 
Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their 
Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to partici-pate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest 
to the event.
7th Annual Cinema Verde 
Environmental Film and Arts 
Festival From today until Sunday at the Hippodrome State Theatre, there will be a showing of 40 films, director discussions, live 
music and an EcoFair. Come 
help celebrate your love for the planet and your neighbors.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mgracehenley@alligator.org. 
To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 101
HIGH  73° LOW  48°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
We are seeking volunteers for a study of pain in 
the face and jaw (TMD pain).
(352) 273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
Missing Alachua County woman likely 
dead, police say 
Hannah Brim was ﬁ  ve months pregnant 
when she went missing in January, according 
to a Gainesville Police incident report. 
It’s been about three weeks since her dis-
appearance, and police believe Brim, 23, may 
be dead.
“We have forensic evidence that leads us 
to believe with very little doubt that she is 
no longer alive,” said GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
On Thursday, about 150 ofﬁ  cers from 
seven departments searched for Brim in the woods of Orange Heights, according to a press release from GPD and the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce. GPD handled the criminal 
portion of the investigation, Tobias said, and the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce coordinated the search. “Any time that, you know, we have rea-
son to believe that other departments have some skills they could lend us, then we’ll do that, especially in a case like this, where we 
believe we’re looking for a 
body,” Tobias said. 
As of press time, Brim 
has not been found. Apart 
from undisclosed evidence, the only lead police have is Nelson Armas, 28, who authorities believe was the 
last to see Brim, Tobias said. While Armas is not 
a suspect, police have questioned him. He is currently in the Alachua County Jail on an unrelated charge of domestic battery.
“We’re calling Mr. Armas a person of in-
terest,” Tobias said. 
- Martin Vassolo
Brim
Suspected masturbator exposes himself 
to faculty member
Almost a full week after a man exposed 
himself to a UF faculty member, Univer-
sity Police released a timely warning to 
students, staff and faculty.
At about 4 p.m. on Feb. 5, a man ex-
posed his penis to a woman on UF cam-
pus, said UPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Wayne 
Clark.
Since December, nine other women 
have been ﬂ  ashed throughout the city. Au-
thorities believe one man is responsible, and he’s been able to escape each time.
A 35-year-old UF Health Shands Hospi-
tal faculty member called police at about 4:20 p.m. Friday, 20 minutes after being ﬂ  ashed, Clark said.“Obviously we still don’t know if it is 
the same person at this point, however . . . the descriptions match all the other de-
scriptions given to us,” Clark said.
But unlike three other on-campus cases, 
the one Feb. 5 didn’t occur in a Norman 
Hall Parking Garage stairwell. Instead, the suspect was on the ground ﬂ  oor of Garage 
6 near Shands’ South Emergency Room, 
Clark said.
Clark said the suspect, assuming it’s the 
same man, might have seen his crimes in 
the media and decided to change locations.
Along with the warning, police released 
a composite sketch of the suspect.
“Now we kind of have a good idea of 
who we’re looking for,” Clark said. 
- Martin Vassolo· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·tionships started on Tinder.
“I think it really fits society’s 
hook-up phenomenon so far,” the 
19-year-old said. “But I think that there is a chance that you can make a relationship out of it and even a friendship out of it.”
Gabriel Sandler, a 24-year-old 
UF doctoral student in nuclear engineering, said his brother met a woman on Tinder and recently became engaged to her.
“I don’t view it as different,” 
he said. “I just view it as a differ-ent way of doing the same thing.”
Sandler met Hannah Kaufman, 
a 21-year-old UF political sci-ence senior, on Tinder about two months ago. He had no problem telling his family, especially after his brother paved the way.
On Saturday night, Sandler 
and Kaufman will be spending their first Valentine’s Day togeth-er in St. Augustine, Florida.
Sandler said he doesn’t think 
much about meeting his girlfriend on Tinder — he’s just happy they’re together.  
Juarez said he feels the same 
way about his boyfriend, and that nobody should feel badly about it.
“Be proud that you are able 
to have this relationship and this person that you met is for a rea-son,” Juarez said. “You are to-gether for a reason, so don’t be ashamed of that.”4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016
Students speak on their 
Tinder relationshipsBy Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Library West now has a 
room specifically for student-parents.
A lactation room, where parents 
can breastfeed, pump milk or calm 
down their child, opened on the 
east side of the library’s second floor 
Wednesday. Construction began in December. The project was funded with non-recurring library funds, Bri-an Keith, an associate dean of UF’s George A. Smathers Libraries, wrote in an email. It cost about $19,000, Keith said.
It is open to both mothers and fa-
thers, said Jana Smith Ronan, chair-woman of Library West.
“It’s hard to find a nice and qui-
et space on campus if you work or if you’re a student,” she said. “You want a place where you don’t want to disturb people or be interrupted.”
The room has a rocking chair and 
footrest. The library plans on adding 
rugs and paintings, she said.
The lactation room is next to the 
gender-neutral restroom. Both rooms 
were part of a joint project, Ronan said. If parents need to change their child’s diaper, they can go next door.
Another lactation room exists at 
the Levin College of Law’s library, 
the Lawton Chiles Legal Information 
Center.
Patricia Morgan, the head of the 
law school’s access services and out-reach, said the room is used sporadi-cally. Morgan said law students use it while studying for exams.
“Law school’s hectic enough,” 
she said. “I can’t even imagine being 
in law school and having a child.”
When Soon Yang, 33, was a stu-
dent, she said it was difficult to find a 
quiet place and the time to breastfeed or even pump breast milk for her daughter, Isu.
Yang, who was a doctoral stu-
dent, had an office on the sixth floor of Library West. But even then, she 
had to find time between her lab 
hours to pump milk.
Yang said the room will help par-
ents who are studying for exams.
“I’m kind of interested of bringing 
my little one to the library,” she said.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgLibrary West opens room for student-parents to breastfeed
Melissa Gomez / Alligator Staff
Pictured is the recently opened lactation room at Library West, located on the second floor on the east 
side. The library plans to add paintings and rugs to the room.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Daniel Brent Williams’s infectious, big-bel-
lied laugh could make anyone smile.
A crowd of about 350 gathered Thursday 
morning at the Hilton UF Conference Center to 
celebrate the former public information direc-
tor of WUFT. The 64-year-old died Jan. 23 after 
fighting Lou Gehrig’s disease, a neurodegen-erative disease that affects the brain and spinal cord, since late 2011.
Williams, who went by Brent, planned his 
own memorial service, said Buddy Goodman, who led the ceremony. In the lobby, an award read: “In Appreciation for 34 Years of Service to WUFT-TV and WUFT-FM.”
He joined WUFT in 1977 and was there for more than 30 years.
Before his death, Williams asked his daugh-
ter, Catherine Williams Nilon, to talk about 
what he was like as a dad. She said he taught 
her to never take life for granted. His career as a public broadcaster gave him confidence and charisma to make friends with everyone.
“People truly believed in what he had to 
say,” Nilon said. “My father was 100 percent passionate in everything he did.”
A photo and video montage depicted the 
man with a broad smile from his days working 
at WUFT Television Channel 5 to those as an 
internationally recognized member of Rotary International, including in the service organiza-tion’s local chapter. During the video, people laughed and cried.
In one scene, Williams was seen dancing with his daughter at her wedding.
In another, the Rotary Club of Gainesville 
community and friends had come together to 
hold a mass ice bucket challenge. As Williams 
was drenched in icy water, his grin only got wider. At the end, he lifted his cane in triumph.
After the service, friends and family shared 
memories and stories of Williams.
Karl and Janet Owens met him in the ear-
ly 1980s. After he was diagnosed with Lou Gehrig’s disease, also called amyotrophic lat-eral sclerosis, or ALS, every Wednesday was 
“Wednesdays with Brent,” which played off 
the title of the book, “Tuesdays with Morrie.”
They met for lunch on those days, Mrs. 
Owens said. Mushroom and cream of chowder soup were his favorites.
Mr. Owens said he would look for signs of grieving in Williams because of the ALS, but he never saw his smile falter. Every week, Wil-liams was optimistic.
The Owens’ said they wake up every morn-
ing now and remind each other to appreciate life. It was something Williams taught them to do.
“He was always positive,” Mr. Owens said.Randall “Randy” Wright, the executive di-
rector of WUFT, wrote in an email that he met Williams a year before he retired.
“Brent’s impact on WUFT and in the com-
munity will be felt for decades to come,” he said. “And his Gator family at UF misses him greatly.”
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgGainesville, students remember former WUFT director
TINDER,  from pg 1EPILOGUE
“It slowly turns from fear and 
nervousness to energy and fun,” he said. “I absolutely love doing 
it.”
When performing the song 
“My Girl” by The Temptations, 
Lin said the group will break into dance.
“If you ever see it, you’ll know 
we definitely do not practice danc-ing,” he said.
If a crowd forms around the 
group when they perform on cam-pus, the students will try to find 
someone to dance with, Lin said.
“It’s kind of like a free-for-all,” 
he said. “It’s one of my favorite 
parts.”
Kyle Tapley, a UF sustainabil-
ity studies sophomore, said this is his first year singing serenades.
But he said he’s not scared to 
perform in front of an audience.“I really like the experience of 
going out and singing for people,” the 19-year-old said. “I think that songs are a good way to show affection and give someone the message that you really care about them.”
He said he sings to make peo-
ple smile.
“We serenaded my mom today 
and she cried,” he said Tuesday.
On Wednesday, the group sur-
prised Savannah Wright, a UF family, youth and community sci-ence sophomore, while she was eating lunch in the Hub.
She said her friend asked the 
group to perform for her 20th birthday.
“It was a really good moment,” 
she said. “There’s no better feel-ing than having a ton of guys sing to you.”
She said a group of students 
surrounded her, taking pictures and videos on their phones. Af-ter the performance, she said she hugged everyone who sang for her.
“I’m just a hugging kind of per-
son,” she said. “You can’t not hug someone that sings to you.” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org
SERENADE,  from pg 1You can buy a serenade for $30
SWEET SERENADES
Gainesville Barbergators Chorus
• Cost: $50
• Includes a digital photo, 
flower and personalized Valentine’s Day card
Phi Mu Alpha
• Cost: $30
• One song and a traditional serenade songIT WAS FORMED BY THE 
INSTITUTE OF 
BLACK CULTURE.
By Monica Humphries
Alligator Contributing Writer
When the orange ribbon was cut 
Wednesday for UF’s new Black En-
richment Center, a crowd of about 100 students, faculty and alumni cheered.
The center, formed by the Insti-
tute of Black Culture, will be a space for black students to hold events and relax, said Vee Byrd, the director of Black Affairs. As part of the opening, students marched from the institute on University Avenue to the center in the Reitz Union. 
The institute started planning the 
center about seven years ago, she said. Staff at the institute wanted a central location for black students to gather. The grand opening fell on the day of the 44th anniversary of the institute.
The center was part of the Reitz’s 
about $75 million expansion, Byrd said. The center is now next to the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Affairs, LGBT Affairs and the Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs. Because of this, Byrd hopes it will unify mul-ticultural groups.
With the center’s opening, UF is the first university in the country to have two spaces for African Ameri-cans, Byrd said.“There’s nothing like coming 
into a space that’s familiar to you,” she said.
During the parade from the IBC 
to the Reitz, students held flags from countries such as Nigeria, Jamaica, Trinidad and Haiti. 
Marie Saelda Dumorné, a UF in-
ternational studies sophomore, said marching with the red and blue Hai-tian flag made her feel empowered.
“The black community is small 
here. I hope it’ll bring cultures to-
gether,” the 19-year-old said.
Roldyne Dolcé, a UF health edu-
cation and behavior junior, walked 
with Dumorné. She said she hopes black faculty members use the cen-ter.
“A lot of the times, we don’t get 
to meet the faculty,” the 20-year-old said.
Byrd said it’s important to have a 
space like this at UF, especially with black enrollment declining. 
Although she doesn’t think it will 
have an immediate impact on enroll-ment numbers, she said she hopes it’ll improve UF’s retention rate.
“If I was a student, I would feel 
better supported,” Byrd said.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
UF celebrates opening of Black Enrichment Center
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Wiz Khalifa fans ignored a sign that 
read “no smoking” Thursday as bass 
shook the Stephen C. O’Connell Center.Admirers throughout the room chanted 
“Taylor Gang,” and a man pressed against the stage, stretching his hand to offer 
Khalifa a hit of what he was puffing at 
the O’Connell Center. The rapper took the stage at 8:09 p.m. Thursday, following the artist K Camp.
Khalifa opened with “Freak Dips” and 
rapped well-known tracks such as “Gang Bang,” “Black and Yellow” and “Roll Up.” The sold-out show was held by Student Government Productions and the Black 
Student Union. They paid the two artists a 
combined $153,500.
Neon green wristbands marked the 
arms of those with floor seats, while oth-
ers marched to the nosebleed section. 
Sofia Luna, a 21-year-old UF market-
ing senior, scanned tickets as fans filed 
through the doors. 
Of her one-and-a-half years working 
at the O’Connell Center, she said she has only been to one other hip-hop concert. 
“Most of the time it’s country artists, so 
I’m really excited for this one,” she said. 
When the crowd died down, she said 
she would try to go catch a glimpse of the artist. 
Carley Phillips traveled from St. Au-
gustine, Florida, for the concert. The high 
school senior said she didn’t care that it 
was a school night.
“I’ve been a fan for years, but this is 
my first Wiz concert,” Phillips, 17, said. 
Marcus Seidman of Marco Island, Flor-
ida, wore a new Wiz Khalifa T-shirt over his clothes. His black hat featured pic-tures of marijuana leaves.
“The vibe in here is amazing,” Seid-
man, 18, said. “I’m so pumped for this right now.”
When Khalifa took the stage, fans on 
the floor, like Seidman, rushed to the 
stage to rap along with him.
The rapper, dressed head to toe in 
white, asked one question to the audi-
ence: “Are y’all ready to get high with me tonight?”
The audience responded with an ear-
splitting roar.
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.orgWiz Khalifa raps at sold-out O’Connell Center
By Nate Phillips
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Pizza, beer and innovation filled the old 
Firestone building on University Avenue on 
Thursday evening.
More than 70 students registered for the 
fourth Tech Hobnob, a career fair where about 
17 local tech companies showcased inventions 
and recruited UF students, said Alyssa Brown, the Gainesville Area Chamber of Commerce communications director.
James Hartig, a co-founder of the software 
startup Admiral, said the city is becoming a center on innovation. 
“People are starting to say that Gainesville 
is the hip place to be for startups in the South-
east,” he said. 
Hosted by the Chamber of Commerce’s 
Tech Council and SharpSpring, a local au-
tomated marketing startup, the event aimed to persuade graduating students to stay in Gainesville. 
Alexa Kuk, a 19-year-old UF computer sci-
ence sophomore, said she went to find an in-ternship.
“It’s really great that the startup companies 
are giving opportunities to students,” Kuk said. 
Susan Davenport, the Gainesville Cham-
ber of Commerce president and CEO, said the event started more than a year ago. She said it’s an effort to advance the economy through the Transforming Greater Gainesville plan.
“It’s a five-year, $6 million initiative that 
will continue to help local businesses,” Dav-
enport said. 
As UF continues to advance academically, 
Davenport said, it’s crucial for the community 
to employ talented people from the university. 
“UF is going to be a top-10 public university 
soon,” she said. “So we have to be a top-10 community.”Local tech 
companies recruit at UFIsabel Bonnet/Alligator 
Susan Ajayi (second left), a 22-year-old UF family, youth and community sciences senior, cuts the ribbon 
along with others at the inauguration of the Black Enrichment Center at the Reitz Union on Thursday.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Rapper Wiz Khalifa performs his hit song “Black and Yellow” to a sold-out crowd in the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Thursday night.
LOCAL
K Camp opened for the artistThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
February updates: elections, online voting task force
Hello, students!
I can’t believe it’s already Feb-
ruary! As midterms rear their ugly 
heads, I want to wish you all good 
luck!
As you all have probably noticed, Student 
Government elections are right around the 
corner. You will have the opportunity to vote 
for your Student Body president, Student Body vice president, Student Body treasurer and 50 senators Feb. 16 and 17. 
SG elections receive less than a 25-percent voter 
turnout. 
In a Student Body made up of over 50,000 students, 
it’s imperative we all vote. SG functions because the Student Body does, and the Student Body should al-
ways have its voice heard. As a president who has ap-
preciated every email, concern or question from the Student Body, I also urge you to have your voice heard by voting at the polls.
In terms of voting, my administration has been 
working hard to look into different modes of voting. In my last article, I mentioned how I created a Remote Online Voting Task Force that is looking at how other schools in Florida and the SEC have implemented their 
online voting systems to help us develop an efficient 
system here. 
The task force is made up of students from all over 
campus who are passionate about this issue. As a task force, we understand online voting can sometimes be 
worrisome or even confusing, and that is why we have 
been working hard to gather research on other institu-tions so we can implement the best model at UF. 
Our research process has consisted of meeting with 
SG Information Technology to discuss how a potential remote system could function, and we contacted every top-50 school in North America, the SEC and the State University System of Florida.
Last Friday, the task force presented its 
research at the Bob Graham Center for Public Service in a presentation titled “Voting in the Digital Age.” 
A couple of fun facts from our presen-
tation: Every SEC school and the top five schools in Florida, except for UF, implement remote online voting. 
Also, for every SEC school, voter partici-
pation has increased. We even gave examples of how 
remote online voting works at the University of South 
Florida, Louisiana State University and Texas A&M University.
However, we also understand there are concerns, 
such as fraud, glitches in the system and voter coer-cion. 
To combat this, the task force is looking into those 
concerns for you and compiling different ways of pre-vention, so if UF implements remote online voting, we 
will already know how to prevent such issues. 
The most exciting part is that remote online voting 
is on the ballot this election cycle, so if next semester 
you want to have the opportunity to vote from home 
or a computer that is not a designated polling location, 
then vote for the amendment.
If you want to learn about what SG is lobbying for or 
want to give us your suggestions, stop by UF External Affairs’ event today on the Plaza of the Americas from 
10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Thank you for reading my column! Happy Valen-
tine’s Day!
Ciao! Joselin Padron-Rasines is the UF Student Body presi-
dent. Her column appears monthly.Well friends, the time has come to raise the roof and have 
some fun. Throw away the work to be done, and let the music 
play on. Everybody sing, everybody dance and lose yourselves in the wild romance that is... 
Darts & Laurels 
We’re going to party, karambo, ﬁ  esta, forever; come on and 
read along... all day long (all day).
Along with Lionel Richie, there’s another musical legend 
on our minds this week: the Based God himself, Lil B. It was announced Tuesday that Lil B, who has given the world such gifts as “I’m Paris Hilton,” “I Love You” and “Ellen Dege-neres,” will be gracing the Reitz Union with his presence Feb. 
18, courtesy of Reitz Union Board Entertainment.
We’ve made no secret of our desire to see better entertain-
ers and speakers brought to UF and, if we may be so generous 
to RUB, this is a great step in the right direction. Lil B’s pre-vious speaking engagements have included the likes of New 
York University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
and Virginia Tech: The fact that he’s coming to Gainesville is not only a treat for us students, but it also reafﬁ  rms UF’s sta-tus as a top-tier college. For absolutely killing the “bring dope 
speakers to UF” game, RUB Entertainment gets a swagged 
out, cooking, dancing Laurel, as does Lil B for making UF a 
more #based and positive place to be. #tybg.
As we’ve re-counted in several editions of Darts & Laurels 
this year, anti-semitism seems to be all the rage these days 
among bigots and assholes. On Monday, known asshole and 
National Riﬂ  e Association board member Ted Nugent posted an image adorned with twelve Jewish politicians and gun con-trol advocates on his Facebook wall with the Israeli ﬂ  ag super-
imposed in front of each individual. The image also came with 
charming captions for many of them, including “Jew York City Mayor” for former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg.
“Know these punks,” Nugent wrote in his attached post. 
“Know them well. Tell every1 you know how evil they are. Let 
us raise maximum hell to shut them down!”
Come on Ted, if you’re going to be blatantly anti-semitic 
and offensive, at least put a little “oomph” into it: Obvious 
puns like “Jew York City Mayor” are pretty lazy as far as vitri-
olic bigotry is concerned. Ted Nugent gets a Dart.
On Thursday, LIGO Scientiﬁ  c Collaboration announced 
gravitational waves are a thing! Sure, why not! We liberal 
arts majors aren’t going to pretend to understand what the hell that means, but golly if it doesn’t sound awful world shatter-
ing and scientiﬁ  cally important! A Laurel to LIGO for further 
advancing man’s understanding of the world and champion-
ing scientiﬁ  c progress.
We’ve been meaning to get to this one for a while: On 
Jan. 31, cult classic and the-best-goddamn-show-on-television “The Venture Bros.” returned to Adult Swim for its sixth sea-son. Despite having only aired an hour-long special since the series’ ﬁ  fth season concluded in 2013, the last two weeks have aptly demonstrated that the show has no intentions of slow-
ing down. Between last week’s pitch-perfect “Trainspotting” 
parody (and we do mean pitch perfect: Show composer J.G. Thirlwell’s spot-on approximation of Underworld’s “Dark and Long — Dark Train” is what sold the joke), semi-obscure new-
wave references and moving monologue on the power of pop 
culture, pop music and nostalgia, “The Venture Bros.” is as great as it has ever been. For helping soothe the pain of an al-ready rocky 2016, show creators Doc Hammer and Jackson Publick get a geeky, V-shaped Laurel.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Joselin 
Padron-Rasines
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
“It’s because you’re a 
woman.”
Despite being 
little more than a set of words on a 
laptop screen, I could feel their intent. They were meant to pro-
voke, delivered with a sneering 
amusement that I was all too familiar with.  “Sorry?” I wrote, “Please explain.” His response was as I suspected. “Chill, I’m f---ing with 
you.”
It was the closing comment of a tense 
Facebook conversation I was having with 
an old friend and amateur stand-up co-
median. I had contacted him with a very 
misinformed question about the sign-up requirements of a local show. He respond-ed by saying I was “too green” and by tell-ing me (as condescendingly as possible) I 
would have to perform somewhere else.
I was angry. It was the only show that 
happened on my one night off a week. 
Besides, who was he to say that I was 
“green”? I have played plenty of comedy 
sets in other cities over the course of two years; I have even collected recordings of my best sets in the event I would need to submit something for evaluation. 
To be fair, I didn’t know his answer 
was rooted in practice; this club only in-vited comics they had seen perform live. However, his wording made me feel as 
though I was just some stupid little girl 
picking up a microphone for the ﬁ  rst time. I responded with an arrogant retort that I’m not proud of.
While normally I wouldn’t have be-
haved so poorly, I was tired of being spo-ken down to, especially by male come-dians. As a female comic, I’ve met some incredibly talented and respectful men 
who are great at what they do. 
However, I’ve also dealt with every-
thing from emcees making lewd com-
ments about me onstage to comedians giv-ing me constant and unsolicited advice. 
“You know you have to tell your own 
jokes, right?” one once asked me. “The last time we had a girl in here, she didn’t know that.” Granted, that club was excep-tionally archaic, but the memory stuck.
The worst part about those 
situations is that I was more or less expected to deal with them as “part of the territory.” Even mild dismay was greeted with, 
“Hey, lighten up, it was just a 
joke” or “This is how it works.” Don’t get me wrong: I complete-ly understand the importance of 
having a thick skin in comedy. I’ve even 
been the butt of sexist jokes I thought 
were genuinely funny. This was because they were clever, self-aware and, most importantly, easily recognizable as jokes. 
In contrast, the other remarks were 
merely blatantly rude comments, dis-guised as jokes in order to save face.
Regardless, I knew I had somewhat pro-
jected my negative experiences on to the 
conversation I was having with my friend. 
While his tone had deﬁ  nitely been conde-scending, I shouldn’t have immediately assumed it was based on gender bias. I 
apologized for any presumptuous remarks 
I had made, and I tried to elaborate on the past events that led me to make them.
Unfortunately, it was a little too late. 
“Stop trying to explain yourself,” he wrote. 
“I don’t care.” After a few more fruitless 
attempts to restore peace, I gave up. 
None of it really bothered me. Then he 
said it. “It’s because you’re a woman,” 
followed by, “Chill, I’m f---ing with you.”
It was the same weak, lukewarm at-
tempt to backpedal that I was used to 
from the other comics. It was an excuse to make a mean remark and get away with it 
in the name of “joking.” 
Perhaps in some other context, if we 
were having a witty conversation full of 
hyperbolic speech, it would have been 
ﬁ  ne. Here, however, in the midst of ten-
sion and insults, it wasn’t funny. It was just rude. Whether one wants to acknowl-edge it, casually delivered misogyny such as this is a reality women contend with 
every day. Personally, I don’t ﬁ  nd it all 
that humorous.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics 
senior. Her column appears on Fridays.Don’t be rude in the name of comedyColumn
The path to choosing the 
most powerful person in the free world, by all indi-cations and a considerable consensus, is a mess. Not 
that the process itself is in sham-bles — though that seems to be a popular refrain every four years; I just don’t trust anyone who says they fully understand it. Howev-er, because this year will be the ﬁ  rst time I and many other col-lege students will be voting in a presidential election, I will publicly attempt to grapple 
with and make sense of the primary elec-
tion for the education of the Alligator read-ership and, more importantly, myself. 
The primary election, the ﬁ  rst and most 
confusing step of the presidential election, is the process by which each party chooses its respective candidate for the general election — which is where, in turn, the president is elected. Political parties have been with the 
U.S. essentially since George Washington 
left ofﬁ  ce, but the modern system of how candidates are chosen for the general elec-tion is a relatively new — and unpredictable — child of American democracy, beginning in the 1970s. This process involves state-by-state elections in contests called primaries and caucuses held by the parties, and the rules are different on a case-by-case basis. 
Therefore, Republicans can have their race 
in a state on a separate date from the Demo-crats’ race, although this is the minority of cases.
In the time before rock ‘n’ roll and lava 
lamps, candidates were chosen in national conventions and, before that, for a short stint, by party members in Congress. To-day, we still have national conventions — 
like the Republican National Convention 
and the Democratic National Convention, beginning on July 18 and 25, respectively — but those serve mainly as the symbolic end to the long primary race; by the time they roll around, the eventual nominee has emerged. 
What’s at stake in the primary race is 
twofold: delegates and the identity of the 
party. Delegates are the literal dimension 
of the primary race. The key to winning a party’s nomination is winning delegates. As I’ve mentioned earlier, the races are dif-ferent for each party state-by-state, and it thus follows that the process of awarding delegates varies as well.Some states rely on a winner-
take-all system, in which one can-didate takes all the delegates of a state’s party. Others offer their delegates proportionally based on 
the percentage of the state party’s 
electorate won. And there are seemingly inﬁ  nite nuances within this system — certain states have rules to determine if a candidate can acquire delegates based on the percentage of the vote they 
win, for example.
For the Republican Party, a candidate 
has to win 50 percent plus one of all dele-gates to win the nomination — that is 1,236 out of 2,470 delegates this year — and for the Democratic Party, 2,382 out of 4,763. 
And there’s a rather large kink to the 
Democratic race: For the Republicans, del-egates are awarded based entirely on win-ning primaries and caucus, in which or-dinary voters turn out in support of their 
candidates. For Democrats, however, these 
races are components of the whole shebang, but there are also delegates called superdel-egates. These superdelegates are members of the party that may endorse whichever candidate they choose and are not bound to vote in accordance with their home state. So while Sen. Bernie Sanders recently wal-loped Hillary Clinton in the New Hampshire 
primary by popular vote, he is likely to 
leave the primary with the same number of delegates as Hillary due to superdelegates. 
I should mention there are a few days to 
look out for: March 1 is Super Duper Tues-day. The Democrats, for example, have 1,017 delegates at stake on that day alone from 12 primaries and caucuses — in other words, more than a ﬁ  fth of the delegates 
in the total race. Super Duper Tuesday is 
similarly important for Republicans as well. March 15 is Super Tuesday, not really as signiﬁ  cant as Super Duper Tuesday but still fairly important. This is also when Florida votes, guys.
When these events have passed, what 
remains will most likely be the best glimpse into the state of each party. The GOP might 
be as fractured as they are now, and Hill-
ary Clinton may end up clobbering Sanders. Either way, this will tell us a lot about how the country may see itself over the next four years.
Neel Bapatla is a UF English sophomore. 
His column appears on Fridays.
Choose your own presidential candidateColumn
Namwan 
Leavell
opinions@alligator.org
Neel 
Bapatla
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
WHAT IS INJUSTICE?
Stephanie Barrios, a 20-year-old UF economics junior, writes 
the word “advertisements, ” on the injustice wall put up by the Veritas Forum, which asked students to write down what they thought was unjust in the world. Barrios said she thought it was unfair that people with the most money could determine what ads are shown in the media.By Amalie Batchelder
Alligator Contributing Writer
A team of about 45 UF students 
is expecting to finish building an air-
plane Sunday.
UF’s AeroGators club started the 
university’s first student-built aircraft 
in Spring 2013. The aircraft, which 
holds two people, will be shown Feb. 23 as part of UF’s Engineers’ Week. The plane cost $16,000 to build and 
was funded by outside donations and 
sponsors, said Justin Smith, the pres-
ident of AeroGators. The airplane is 
almost complete and just needs to pass tests to be certified by the Fed-eral Aviation Administration before the club presents it, he said.
Ryan Fiol, the treasurer of Aero-
Gators, said the plane is a kit aircraft, meaning a company provides the parts and instructions to build it.
Smith, 21, said using a kit aircraft 
was a cheaper alternative to finding separate parts. Since Fall 2015, the club has worked on the airplane at the University Air Center, Fiol, 19, said. Before then, they worked at the 
former president’s house.
“Over the course of a year, I’ve 
probably touched each piece of the 
craft at least once in one meeting,” Fiol, a UF aerospace engineering sophomore, said.
Last year, the club came close 
to finishing the plane, but they had to start over after the plane was ex-
posed to weather, he said.
“We let it sit over summer in our 
former president’s yard, and it got 
humid, so we had to strip out all the fabric,” Fiol said.
The club hopes to sell the aircraft 
after it’s completed to earn back some of the money spent and use it for future projects, he said. It has to 
pass the FAA’s tests and regulations. 
In addition to the title of first student-built aircraft at the university, each member of the club will get to ride in the plane when it’s done, he said. After they’ve finished the plane, Fiol 
said he thinks it will help AeroGa-
tors get corporate sponsors for future projects.
Smith, a UF aerospace engineer-
ing senior, said the goal was to help engineering students make concepts learned in class a reality.
“The original goal wasn’t to say, 
‘This is the one and only student-
built aircraft at the University of Flor-
ida,’” Smith said. “But participating in that means a lot to the students.”
They decided to unveil the fin-
ished product at Engineers’ Week due to high attendance, Smith said.
“We’re hoping it’ll spur some in-
terest in aircrafts,” Smith said. He’s looking forward to UF students see-
ing the plane, he said.
“When you see an airplane in the 
middle of North Lawn, that’s pretty 
freaking awesome,” he said.Students 
build UF’s first aircraft
By Paris Olkes
Alligator Contributing Writer
Former Sen. and alumnis Bob 
Graham will speak at a UF lun-
cheon today.
The former Florida senator 
and governor will be the keynote 
speaker for the second annual 
Gator100 Awards Gala Luncheon, an event that honors the leaders of the 100 fastest-growing compa-nies owned, operated or led by UF alumni. The event will be hosted by the Warrington College of Business in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. UF President Fuchs will 
give the welcome speech.
The UF Alumni Association 
contacts alumni and asks them 
to apply for the award, said Nola Miyasaki, the executive director for outreach and incubation for the Entrepreneurship and Innova-tion Center. The top 100 compa-nies are selected from those that 
apply.
To qualify last year, a business 
must have made at least $100,000 
over its first year, she said. This year, businesses must have made $250,000. 
The competition has also got-
ten more intense, with 500 ap-plying last year and 600 applying 
this year, Miyasaki said.
“There is no other opportunity 
to have 100 honorees in the same 
room to meet each other and UF students,” Miyasaki said.     
Bill Randle, owner of Orange 
and Blue Construction, Inc. in Boca Raton, Florida, ranked No. 
20 among businesses at the event 
last year. He said his favorite part was being surrounded by fellow Gators.
He said he liked being recog-
nized by UF, and receiving the honor validated that his work was important.
“The most important advice I 
can give to upcoming entrepre-neurs is that you have to love what you do,” Randle said. “If you show passion, it makes it easier for the people behind you to walk the walk.”Bob Graham, President 
Fuchs to honor alumniCAMPUS
TOP FIVE GATOR 
COMPANIES
LAST YEAR:
• SoloHealth
• Abode
• PDQ
• Kitchen Resource 
Direct
• Blue Marble Game CompanyEmma Green / Alligator Staff 
WITH LOVE FROM THE ART
Corinne Hutchison (left), 18, a UF health science freshman, and Kathryn Ramos, 19, a UF dietetics freshman, draw with charcoal in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom during Reitz Union Board Entertainment’s Speed Crafting event for Valentine’s Day on Thursday evening. Participants in the event rotated between seven different stations, including painting and card-making, and had the chance to win a surprise goody bag if they got a card stamped at all of the craft tables.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
VALENTINE’S DAY ROUNDUP
Date Night
2016High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave.
Weeze, a Weezer tribute band, and American 
Idiots, a Green Day tribute band, will perform. Tickets are $6 in advance and $8 at the door. Couples who buy tickets at the door will get two tickets for the cost of one. Tickets are available online at ticketﬂ  y.com.Fri. at 9 p.m.
Katelyn Newberg and Lauren Johnson / Alligator StaffOne Love Cafe, 4989 NW 40th Place
A Valentine’s Day menu will be available Friday and Saturday from 3 p.m. to 9 p.m. The prime sirloin meal will cost $69 per couple, and the vegetarian black eyed pea tempeh heart croquette meal will cost $59 per couple.Meals include chocolate cake and champagne in a keepsake glass customers can take home. A special brunch menu will be available Saturday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Fri. and Sat.
The Midnight, 223 S. Main Street
‘80s Themed Valentine’s Day PromThe bar will have no charge for entry, and a Maude’s gift card will be given to the individual or couple with the best ‘80s costume.Free champagne toast at midnight.Sat. at 8 p.m.Dragonﬂ  y, 201 SE Second Ave.
Sun. NightThere will be a ﬁ  ve-course dinner offered on Valentine’s Day. The meal will include sashimi, sushi, a cooked dish and dessert.The cost will be $110 per couple. Reservations are still available.
OAK, 15 SE First Ave.
Sun. NightA special four-course dinner will be available on Valentine’s Day.The meal includes choices from two salads, two appetizers, three entrees and two desserts.The meal will cost $50 per person. Reservations are still available.
Kung Fu T ea, 3102 SW 34th Street
Sun. 12 - 10 p.m.Buy-one, get-one free tea for two teas of equal or lesser value.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
Condo 1BR/1BA – 705 SQ.FT.Bike to UF or ride the bus
Call or Text 352-234-3018    2-18-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363  Ext.300N    2-12-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199996 Cadillac Deville $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp pro-gram. For a complete listing of positions visit www.oakhall.org/summercamp. Interview process begins February 20.   2-19-16-11-14
National NPO
P/T position for social media posting, web content management -hours flexible. Email: noscarson@tna-support.org    2-12-16-5-14
**DRIVER TRAINEES****NEEDED NOW**850-983-1400    2-12-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    2-12-1-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016
ATTN: Drivers- $2K Sign-On Bonus
$$ RECENT PAY INCREASE $$Make Over $60,000 your first year!Newer KW T660 and T680'sCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com     2-12-1-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
AIRLINES need Aircraft Dispatchers -Grads work with airlines, airports, and others -Get certified in just 12 weeks with FAA approved training. Call AIM 888-242-2649    2-12-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    2-12-1-16
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!HEALTHCARE is "Out of Control".
Be part of the solution. $50 off until Mar 
30.  Pomo code "2016":  www.rxcut.biz/
RXN00173    2-16-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
14 Help Wanted 18 Personals 20 Event Notices 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
Headline
Story description Pg#
Florida softball opens season, 
three-peat attempt at weekend tourney.Read the story on pg. 15.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Eight UF football players invited to the NFL Combine
Kelvin T aylor, Demarcus Robinson, Jake McGee, Jonathan Bullard, Alex Mc-
Calister, Antonio Morrison, Vernon Hargreaves and Keanu Neal were in-vited to the NFL Combine, the league announced Thursday afternoon. The combine will be held Feb. 23-29 in Indianapolis, Indiana. By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Florida’s game against South Carolina 
on Thursday night started well enough.
At the end of one quarter, the No. 16 
Gators trailed the No. 2 Gamecocks by just 
three points. 
But after a seven-minute scoring drought 
to open the second quarter, the Gamecocks 
built a comfortable lead and cruised to an-
other Southeastern Conference victory, 86-
71. 
While the Gators kept it close in the 
game’s early going, it felt like the matchup was teetering toward South Carolina from the start. 
Florida got lucky on some missed South 
Carolina shots and uncharacteristic mis-cues and was able to stay afloat because of the play of guard Cassie Peoples.
The redshirt senior scored eight points 
in the first quarter, providing a spark off the bench. 
But suddenly, despite hanging with the 
Gamecocks (23-1, 11-0 Southeastern Con-ference) early, the Gators (19-5, 7-4 SEC) went cold to start the second quarter. 
Unable to score a point in the period un-
til the 3:36 mark, Florida dug itself into a 19-point hole. 
Against a team as talented as South 
Carolina, a hole that big is usually insur-mountable.
It didn’t help Florida’s cause that the 
Gamecocks shot 49.1 percent from the field, including 42.1 percent from three-point range, in the game. 
“You’ve gotta give South Carolina a lot 
of credit. They shot the ball great tonight Gators unable to keep up with top-ranked 'Cocks
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
JJ Schwarz doesn’t believe in the 
sophomore slump.
“You know, a lot of people talk about 
a sophomore slump, but that’s just a myth,” he said.
The second-year catcher put together 
a season for the ages in his freshman 
campaign, leading the Gators in nearly every offensive category while garnering 
a plethora of awards, such as the 2015 National Collegiate Baseball Writers As-sociation Freshman Hitter of the Year.
Now, Schwarz will have to change his 
approach at the plate, as teams will like-ly go about facing him differently. The Palm Beach Gardens native said he might 
have to be more patient or more aggres-
sive early, depending on the pitcher.
But Schwarz isn’t worried.“The other teams are going to have 
a lot of information on me — how to get me out and all that stuff,” Schwarz said. “But every game’s a new game, so 
you’ve got to adjust as the season goes 
on.”
While it’s hard to expect Schwarz to 
improve upon his .332 average, 18 home 
runs and 73 RBIs in 2015, he’ll have help 
in the lineup if teams try to pitch around him.Namely, power-hitting first baseman 
Peter Alonso will have to carry some of the run-production workload.
Though he missed Florida’s first 30 
games last season because of a broken foot, Alonso still hit .301, blasted five homers and knocked in 32 runs.
With a healthy Alonso behind him in 
the lineup, Schwarz said he doesn’t feel any more pressure than last year. UF's Schwarz swinging to sidestep sophomore slump  UF IS 12-1 AT HOME.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
The Florida basketball team has been 
nearly unbeatable at home this season.
The Gators are 12-1 inside the 
O’Connell Center, a record that includes 
eight double-digit victories.
That bodes well for UF’s next game, 
when it hosts Alabama (14-9, 5-6 South-eastern Conference) on Saturday at 5:30 
p.m.
But it also presents a glaring problem 
that Florida (16-8, 7-4 SEC) has tried to 
overcome all season long: The Gators have struggled to play with the same level of effort and intensity after wins than they have played with after losses.
But after winning three of their last four 
games — and after an impressive, bounce-
back game on Tuesday against Ole Miss 
after dropping a road game to Kentucky last Saturday — the Gators are hoping they may be inching closer toward a solution.
“There are lot of things that we need to 
correct and some things that we didn’t do perfectly,” White said after UF’s 77-72 win over Ole Miss. “But did we bring it the last two days? Did we work, did we play with pride, did we play hard? Absolutely.”
Florida will get a chance to prove it on 
Saturday against the Crimson Tide, who 
currently sit in ninth place in the SEC.
Offensively, Alabama is mediocre at 
best, ranking ninth in the conference in 
field-goal percentage (42.7), 10th in  three-point percentage (33.3) and 13th in points per game (67.8).
Florida will be forced to limit Alabama 
senior Retin Obasohan, an experienced 6-foot-2 guard who averages 16 points per 
game and is eighth in the SEC and second Florida 
hosts 'Bama on Saturday 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida's Carla Batchelor attempts a layup during UF's 85-79 win over Kentucky on 
Jan. 31 in the O'Connell Center.
SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 14 SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14BASEBALL“You’ve gotta give South Carolina a lot 
of credit. They shot the ball great tonight 
and that’s something that they haven’t 
done all year from the three-point line.”
Amanda Butler
UF coachand that’s something that they haven’t 
done all year from the three-point line,” UF head coach Amanda Butler said. 
With a 12-point lead at the break, 
South Carolina maintained the gap in the second half, not allowing Florida to get closer than eight points for the remainder 
of the game.
UF’s struggles stemmed from its play-
makers — namely Ronni Williams, Sim-
one Westbrook and Eleanna Christinaki 
— being non-factors.
Williams, Florida’s leading scorer, con-
tributed seven points on 3-of-12 shooting 
in the loss. 
Westbrook added five, while Christi-
naki went for four and fouled out.
With the normal scorers not cutting it, 
Florida had to rely on its bench. 
Senior Carla Batchelor, a role player 
who serves primarily as a backup for Wil-liams when she gets into foul trouble, led Florida in scoring for the first time in her 
career with 19 points. 
“I thought Carla was just aggressive,” Butler said. 
“She just went real confidently and ag-
gressively and shot the ball pretty well.”In addition to playmakers not making 
plays, Florida’s post players couldn’t grab 
rebounds. 
The Gamecocks dominated the Gators 
on the glass, grabbing 44 boards to Flor-
ida’s 30. 
“Rebounding, obviously, was critical,” 
Butler said. 
“You can’t allow a team that’s as good 
at that to do something they’re that good at.”
With the win, the Gamecocks bounced 
back from a rare loss to No. 1 Connecticut 
while Florida came back down to earth 
following back-to-back wins over ranked 
teams. 
While no loss is a good loss, Butler be-
lieves there are lessons to be learned from this game that can be applied to the rest 
of the season. 
“We’ll have a lot of lessons on film to 
be able to grow from,” Butler said. 
“We were just too reserved in some 
spots with our defense and also with our 
offense.”
A radio broadcast contributed to this 
report.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
“There’s a lot of guys on the 
team who have power potential 
just like I do,” he said. 
“We have Pete back and we 
have a couple freshmen who are 
going to make a big impact and 
we have a lot of speed this year, 
so it’s just a whole new dynam-ic on the team.”
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan knows how important a Schwarz-Alonso combination can be. He said he hopes Alonso 
stays healthy, because UF will 
need him for the entire season if it hopes to reach its potential.
“Having Pete right there in 
the middle of the lineup to give 
you that power potential with 
JJ, there’s not a lot of teams on our level that have the luxury to have guys with that kind of 
power,” O’Sullivan said.As far as his expectations for 
Schwarz’s sophomore season, 
O’Sullivan just laughed.
“I expect JJ to hit 25 home 
runs,” he joked. “Obviously JJ had a phenomenal year. I don’t want him to try to put too much out on his plate. I just want him 
to go out and play.”
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org among guards in field-goal percent-
age, at 46.4 percent.
In addition, Alabama is coming 
off of three straight wins, including a one-point victory over No. 15 Texas A&M on Wednesday, and has won four of its last five. And with just three more home games left this sea-son, Florida can’t afford to waste an opportunity to earn a victory on its home court.
“(Ole Miss) was a big game for 
us,” forward Devin Robinson said. 
“We dropped an egg last game to 
Kentucky, and we just needed to get back on that roll that we had.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016
The Gamecocks outrebounded the Gators 44-30 on Thursday
O'Sullivan wants to take pressure off Schwarz 'Bama is coming off of 
three straight winsBASEBALL,  from pg 13W-HOOPS,  from pg 13
HOOPS,  from pg 13
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Devin Robinson dunks during Florida's 87-83 win over Arkansas 
on Feb. 3 in the O'Connell Center.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
JJ Schwarz rounds third base during Florida's win against Florida Atlantic in the 2015 NCAA Regionals at McKethan Stadium.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Cassie Peoples looks to pass the ball during Florida's 71-61 loss to Georgia on  Jan. 14 in the O'Connell Center.
“W e’ll have a lot of lessons on film to 
be able to grow from. W e were just too 
reserved in some spots with our defense 
and also with our offense.”
Amanda Butler
UF women's basketball coachFLORIDA SOFTBALL 
FACES FOUR TEAMS 
THIS WEEKEND.
By Matt Brannon
 and Brian Lee
Sports Writers
For the Florida softball team, the 
journey to its third consecutive na-
tional championship begins tonight. And for the third consecutive year, the campaign kicks off in South Flor-
ida. 
The Gators’ season starts tonight 
at 6:45 p.m. with a game against Il-
linois State, the first of four matchups this weekend at the USF Wilson-De-Marini Tournament. The competition will intensify on Saturday as No. 1 UF takes on No. 2 Michigan — the first meeting between the two teams since 
Florida’s championship-clinching win 
in the final game of the 2015 Wom-en’s College World Series. Florida will also face Virginia Tech and South Florida in a doubleheader on Sunday.
The opening tournament marks 
the final chapter for a decorated class of seniors and the opening act for an anxious troupe of freshmen. 
“These kids have been commit-
ted to us for a long time,” coach Tim Walton said. “I’m sure they’ve all run this through their head what the first weekend’s gonna be like.”
Nerves aside, the tournament is 
a good omen for the Gators, who are 24-1 in the tournament since they started playing it in 2010.  UF’s opener against Illinois State 
is the first of three games this season against the Redbirds, with the Gators holding a 4-2 advantage all-time. The last time the teams met, pitcher Aleshia Ocasio threw a complete game one-hitter en route to a 4-1 win. 
Florida’s matchup against Michi-
gan on Saturday will fan the flames of a brewing rivalry between the No. 1 and No. 2-ranked programs in the country. 
Against the Wolverines, the 
Gators will look to set a positive tone for the season against an opponent it will likely see later this Spring. 
Since 2009, every champion ex-
cept one has won its first rematch against the team it defeated. The lone exception was Washington, who lost to the runner-up Gators the next time they faced off. 
Both teams retained an abun-
dance of talent from last season’s squads. Florida returned 14 players, compared to 16 for Michigan. 
In 2015, the teams boasted im-
pressive pitching staffs. Florida ranked fourth nationally with a 1.63 earned run average, while Michigan was slightly higher at 1.66 — good enough for fifth-best. 
The tournament will be an oppor-
tunity for the freshmen to start their careers with a win, just like the sea-soned senior class they share the field 
with.
“There’s nothing like your first 
ever time putting that uniform on and 
your first at bat.” Walton said. “Those are things that you’ll remember for-ever.”
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
This Valentine’s Day weekend, athletes from 
Florida’s No. 1 men’s and No. 4 women’s track and field teams are splitting up between two meets: the Tyson Invitational and the Iowa State Classic. 
The men competing at the Tyson Invitational 
in Fayetteville, Arkansas, will be facing 13 teams from the top 25. Participating teams from the top 10 include No. 2 Texas A&M, No. 4 LSU,  No. 5 Texas, No. 7 Tennessee, No. 8 Arkansas and No. 9 TCU.
The women will face stiff competition, too, 
against teams such as No. 1 Arkansas, No. 5 Tex-as, No. 6 Kansas State and No. 12 Kentucky.
“As we move into the Tyson meet this week-
end, where we are going to see some of the better teams and competitors in the country, we have to go in and match the intensity and the focus of the other teams and we will be fine,” UF coach Mike Holloway said.
Notable athletes competing in Fayetteville in-
clude the relay team of seniors Kyra Jefferson, Claudia Francis and Robin Reynolds, who will 
represent Florida in the 400 meters. When the trio 
competed at the Rod McCravy Invitational on Jan. 23 with the help of sophomore Taylor Sharpe, it ran to the top spot in the NCAA and set the third-best 4x400 meter relay time in Florida’s history. 
Shayla Sanders, who broke the school record 
she set as a sophomore in 2014 in the 60-meter dash during the Razorback Invitational, will also be competing.  
Other notables include the relay team of fresh-
man Kunle Fasasi, redshirt junior Eric Futch, se-nior Najee Glass and junior Nick Uruburu.
Freshman hurdler Shamaria Lovett starts the 
competition for the Gators today at 2:15 in the 400 meters.
The other half of the athletes will compete at 
the Iowa State Classic in Ames, Iowa, at the Lied Recreation Athletic Center. The men will be tak-
ing on eight teams in the top 25, including four 
teams from the top 10 in No. 3 Virginia Tech, No. 4 LSU, No. 8 Arkansas and No. 10 Georgia.
The women will be taking on four top-10 
teams in  No. 1 Arkansas, No. 2 Georgia, No. 8 Georgetown and No. 10 Wisconsin.
“The athletes that are going to the Iowa State 
meet are going there because the competition in their events — the 5K, the 3K, the mile, the 800 — 
are stronger in that competition (than the Tyson 
Invitational),” Holloway said on having to split his team up.
 “It is not ideal. It is not something we like to 
do, but it is something that is a necessary evil if we want to be successful at the end of the sea-son.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
Florida lost last year’s leader in 
caused turnovers after the graduation of Shannon Gilroy.
But that hasn’t taken away from 
the chemistry that has developed on 
the No. 8 Gators’ backline.
Florida returns its three starting 
defenders — juniors Caroline Fitzger-
ald and Taylor Bresnahan and senior 
Sydney DuPre — as well as senior 
goalie Mary-Sean Wilcox, a defensive 
unit that conceded just eight goals per 
game last season, tied for 12th in the NCAA. 
“All around, it’s just a lot easier to 
know what each other is doing,” Bres-nahan said. “This year, we’ve been fo-cusing more on communicating with each other, so with that it’s a lot easier to play off of each other.” 
The final line of defense is re-
inforced by a starting midfield that doesn’t hesitate to make impactful defensive plays. 
Junior Mollie Stevens and redshirt 
senior Nicole Graziano both reached 
double digits in caused turnovers last 
year with 12 and 18, respectively.
Just one game into her UF ca-
reer, freshman Lindsey Ronbeck has shown she can drop back with the rest of her midfield unit. She was one of four Gators with two caused turn-overs in Florida’s 15-6 win over then-No. 13 Loyola last weekend.
“It helps our goalies and it helps 
(the defenders) because we can de-pend on her to do anything (on de-fense),” Bresnahan said of Ronbeck.
The Florida defense will be tested 
against a Michigan team that has not given the Gators much trouble in past matchups.
In just their third season of lacrosse 
play, the Wolverines have played Florida in each of their first two years as a varsity team. The Gators have won both matchups 20-4 and 21-0, respectively.
However, Michigan heads to 
Gainesville coming off a 14-1 win over Central Michigan to open up its season, so the away side has reason to feel confident from the first draw.
To prepare for the 1 p.m. match 
on Saturday at Donald R. Dizney Sta-dium in Gainesville, coach Amanda O’Leary has had her team work on both three-on-three and one-on-one 
situations during practice this week.
Despite the overwhelming series 
history and the fact that they hand-
ily beat a ranked Loyola team to open the season, the Gators cannot let themselves get complacent against the Wolverines, a team that Florida played during the fall.
“We should never go into it look-
ing (at it) as an easy game,” Stevens said. “Because it won’t be.”
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.orgVeteran 
defense helping Florida 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF’s Najee Glass races the final leg of the 4x400-meter relay to close out the 2015 Florida 
Relays on April 4 at the Percy Beard Track.
UF teams splits up for Valentine’s day weekendDanielle Veenstra / Alligator
Softball coach Tim Walton speaks during Florida’s national championship celebration on June 4 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
Gators open season, three-peat attempt at tourney LACROSSEBy Sean Doty
Sports Writer
The Southeastern Conference 
Championships: 12 teams swim-
ming for conference glory.
Tuesday marks the beginning 
of the championship meet in Co-
lumbia, Missouri. Among the 12 
schools competing are Florida’s No. 5-ranked men’s and No. 9-ranked women’s swimming and diving teams.
Nineteen freshman swimmers 
from both teams will experience their ﬁ  rst SEC championship meet, while 16 seniors will be competing 
in their ﬁ  nal SEC competition. 
Regardless, UF swimming coach 
Gregg Troy is expecting all hands on 
deck as the Gators prepare for their longest and most competitive meet of the season. 
“It doesn’t matter if you are a 
freshman or a senior,” Troy said. “It’s ﬁ  ve days of very stressful com-petition.
“If you are an older athlete and 
you think you understand it too well and (don’t) maintain the focus, you can be just as unsuccessful as some-one who has never been.”
The UF women’s team will head 
into Columbia with momentum, having won its last four dual meets. Three of its victories came in con-ference competition against South 
Carolina, No. 11 Auburn and, most 
recently, against No. 13 Tennessee.
In their last regular-season meet 
against the Volunteers, eight dif-ferent Gators on the women’s side won their individual races or diving events. 
Two winners included senior 
Natalie Hinds, who leads both teams 
in total victories this season with 39, 
and senior Sierra Kuhn, who won her ﬁ  rst race of the season in the 200-yard butterﬂ  y. 
“I think I’m more focused than I 
really was the other three years just because I really don’t have another chance to come back,” Hinds said. “I want to make it memorable.”
Florida’s biggest threat in Colum-
bia will be Georgia. 
The Bulldogs men’s and wom-
en’s swimming and diving teams, currently ranked No. 3 and No. 1, respectively, beat the Gators on Oct. 30. The women’s team will be in search of its ﬁ  rst conference 
champiosnhip in seven years.
On the other side, the UF men’s 
team will be under pressure to re-
deem its 172.5-127.5 loss to the 
Bulldogs in addition to defending its conference championship crown for the third consecutive season. 
Sophomore Jan Switkowski, who will be competing in his ﬁ  rst SEC championship after transferring 
from Virginia Tech, is conﬁ  dent that 
his team is ready to defend its con-ference title.
“We are really well prepared,” 
Switkowski said. “I think we have a good chance to win it all.”
Switkowski and fellow sopho-
more Caeleb Dressel have been the men’s teams’ top individual-event 
swimmers for the men’s team this 
season. 
Following Florida’s 185-115 win 
against the Volunteers, both swim-mers have combined for 28 individ-ual race victories (19 wins for Dres-sel, nine for Switkowski). 
Two of the biggest areas of con-
cern for the Gators heading into the 
conference meet are their ability to 
perform relay and the breaststroke races. 
While Troy would not go into full 
detail of what his relay lineups will look like in Columbia, he believes that performances in the relays and overall consistency will be the key to Florida’s potential victory next 
week. 
“The conference is by far better 
than it’s ever been in my 18 years 
here,” Troy said. 
“The ﬁ  ve relays are key. I think 
the two ingredients are swimming relays well and being consistent.” 
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.org16    ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016
Faith And 
V alues Rally
A Free Event: FREE FOOD   FREE MUSIC   FREE PLAY AREA FOR CHILDREN (BOUNCE HOUSE)Stand Up For God!
and American V alues
Christ took a stand for us when He died on the cross for our sins. Now it’s our turn to take a stand for Him.  
Join us on Sunday, February 14th at Flavet Field on the UF Campus at 2pm and take a stand to bring our country Back 2 God.This V alentine’s Day 
Valentines Day  
Sunday, February 14 2:00 PM When?West University Ave.
13th Street (Hwy. 441)
Archer RoadTo I-75
34th Street
Gale Lemerand Dr.Museum Rd.Woodlawn Dr.Flavet FieldLearn more...
Flavet Field, UF Campus  
Woodlawn Dr Gainesville, FL 32603www.Back2GodMovement.com 407-628-1828 Where?
GYMNASTICS
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
On to the next one. Beginning at 6:45, tonight’s 
Link to Pink gymnastics meet will feature a dash of Razorback Red as No. 9 Arkansas readies 
to take on the No. 2 Gators in 
the O’Connell Center.
Coming off last week’s close 
loss to then-No. 11 Georgia, 
Florida (4-1, 2-1 Southeastern 
Conference) will look to re-
sume its winning ways against 
a squad it has historically domi-nated.
The Gators have whipped 
their intraconference foes to the tune of a 35-3 all-time re-cord, their most recent victory coming in last season’s NCAA Morgantown Regional. 
However, competing against 
their third top-10 opponent in as many home meets this year, the Gators understand the chal-lenge facing them on their home mat.
And, amped up in the wake 
of a .050-point defeat that cost them their No. 1 ranking, Flori-
da’s gymnasts are chomping at 
the bit. 
“I think it was a tough loss 
because we lost by a half a tenth, and that could be picked up in any of our routines on 
any event,” sophomore Alex 
McMurtry said. 
“I think we’re going to 
bounce back stronger than ever.
“We always have a little 
meet there in the season where we have some falls, we have some mistakes, but we’re hit-ting it hard in practice and 
we’re definitely going to show 
it off this weekend like we al-ways do.”
This meet, though, won’t 
yield as cut-and-dry a result as some might expect.One of five SEC teams ranked 
in the top-10 nationally, the Ra-zorbacks (3-4, 2-2 SEC) won’t be pushed aside easily.
Marred by inconsistency, 
they sit in fifth out of eight teams in conference standings.
However, two of their three 
wins on the year have come against SEC competition ranked top-10 nationwide, triumph-ing over then-No. 9 Auburn at home a week after upsetting then-No. 4 Alabama on the road. 
Additionally, Arkansas has 
managed to climb the national leaderboards while fielding a lone all-around competi-tor — junior letterwoman and 2015 All-SEC selection Amanda Wellick, who was also named a second-team All-American on vault last year. 
Joining Wellick on the mat 
is a quintet of senior gymnasts, headlined by 2015 All-SEC ath-lete Heather Elswick and 2012 second-team floor All-American Stephani Canizaro. 
In facing yet another worthy 
opponent, Florida is seeking to learn from last week’s loss, hoping to avoid its first regular-
season losing streak since 2006.
“I believe that everything 
happens for a reason,” coach 
Jenny Rowland said, “and I feel that this weekend was a very good lesson for us. Sometimes, things like this, competitions like this refuel the heart, kind of builds the burn a little bit 
more, kind of makes them just 
focus a little bit more and real-ize those were just little, minor bumps in the road. 
“It wasn’t anything we can’t 
overcome, and we’re ready to move forward and finish off the season.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgUF hoping to avoid losing 
streak against Arkansas
Florida preparing for SEC Championships
UF’s biggest threat is Georgia
Jan Switkowski races in the 200-yard butterﬂ  y during Florida’s meet against Auburn on Jan. 
23 in the O’Connell Center.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff