We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 109 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016
Schwarz leads Florida to 
win over Eastern Michigan
The sophomore homered for 
the ﬁ  rst time this season, pg. 13
Schwarz leads Florida to 
win over Eastern Michigan
Handmade creatures to roam Gainesville
It’s a design competition where people build and ride human-powered ﬂ  oats, pg. 5
Research Roundup
Fasting, almonds and dogs, pg. 8For neighborhood kids, a 
new court and a wild ride
Check out the story and mini photo story, pg. 3
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
UF has ranked among the top-10 public 
universities in the nation.
The 2016 report by Buffalo Business First 
placed UF 10th in the nation out of 477 pub-lic universities. This puts UF above all oth-er Florida schools. Last year, however, UF 
ranked seventh.Buffalo Business First assessed schools 
based on factors such as graduation rates, admission rates, racial and gender diversity 
of faculty and staff, housing affordability and rankings from other reports, such as the U.S. 
News & World Report.
UF will continue to work to raise its na-
tional status, UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
wrote in an email.
He said he wasn’t sure why the ranking fell from seventh to 10th.
“We’re still in the top 10, which is cer-
tainly a highly competitive group of institu-tions,” he said.
He said in the report, UF performed well 
in categories such as six-year graduation rates, affordability, and retention, or the number of students who come back to UF the next year.
“In some of the other areas, such as diver-
sity, there’s always room for improvement,” he said.
Erin Seu, a UF psychology sophomore, said she thinks UF could improve its ranking with more student diversity.
“I agree that diversity could use some 
more work,” the 19-year-old said. “But I don’t necessarily think that it’s worse than last year.”
She said UF should be ranked a top-10 
university.
“It’s a competitive school because it’s a 
good school,” she said.  
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org UF ranks No. 10 among public universities
CAMPUS
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF a cappella group is re-
leasing its second studio album.
No Southern Accent will re-
lease “Good to the Last Drop” 
on Friday on iTunes, Spotify and Loudr, a website where art-ists sell song covers, said Eion 
Blanchard, the group’s public 
relations director. Songs will include “Say Something” by A Great Big World and Christina Aguilera, “Leave My Body” by 
Florence and the Machine and 
“Holy Grail” by Jay Z feat. Jus-tin Timberlake.
The group, founded in 2001, 
released one other album in April 2011. The new album will have a greater variety of songs, said Blanchard, a UF mathemat-ics sophomore.
“We just have a really good 
mix of genres,” the 19-year-old said. “Everyone will ﬁ  nd a song that they like.”
He said exact costs are still 
being worked out, but the al-bum will sell for less than $10. Producing it cost slightly more than $9,000 and was made pos-
sible by private performances 
and donations from fans.
“This album is not for us to make a proﬁ  t,” he said. “It’s mostly just to share our music 
with our fans.”
Blanchard said the covers 
will encompass rhythm and 
blues, pop and electronic music. The group performed the songs 
on the album at past Interna-
tional Championship of Colle-giate A Cappella competitions.
Their 2011 album, “Group 
Therapy,” was nominated for 
four Contemporary A Cappella 
Recording Awards. He said he hopes the album is nominated for more awards and wins this 
time around.  
Blanchard said the new al-
bum gives students who can’t 
make it to their concerts a chance to listen to the group.
“These are dynamic works 
of music that people you see around campus are actively making and pour their souls 
into,” he said. “It’s deﬁ  nitely a  No Southern Accent 
to release second album on iTunes
SEE ALBUM,  PAGE 4IT WAS A UNANIMOUS 
DECISION.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Student Senate christened 
the white walls of the new Senate 
chambers with the election of a 
new Senate president and pro tem-pore at Tuesday’s meeting.
Jenny Clements, (District A, 
Impact) was elected as the new Senate president, and Smith Mey-
ers (District A, Impact) was elect-ed as the new pro tempore at the Reitz Union Senate chambers. Both ran unopposed.
Janae Moodie (Public Health 
and Health Professions, Impact) and Ian Green (Business Admin-istration, Impact) were chosen as the two members-at-large. Mood-
ie received 68 votes, and Green 
received 55. Green ran against Dwayne Fletcher (District D, Ac-cess), who won 27 votes.
SG elected Clements as Senate 
president with all 84 senators at SG picks new Senate president
SEE SENATE,  PAGE 4Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
FLOAT LIKE A BUTTERFL Y
Megan Disatham, 21, learns ballet from Floridance’s Jenny Warnick at Broward Hall. The UF mechanical 
engineering junior was one of 24 students who participated in the free dance lesson on Tuesday night.
It fell from last year’s ranking
“These are dynamic works 
of music that people you see 
around campus are actively 
making and pour their souls 
into. It’s deinitely a very 
personal work of art.”
Eion Blanchard
UF mathematics sophomoreSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
La Casita discussion
Come join the Institute of 
Hispanic-Latino Affairs and LGBT Affairs on Thursday at noon at La Casita for an engag-
ing discussion on the diversity 
of queer Latinx families. Free food will be provided at the luncheon, where they will dis-cuss the many topics centered on the intersectionality of lati-nidad and queerness. Please note, this event is only open to Queer/Trans People of Color 
(QTPOC).
Florida Museum closed today
The Florida Museum of 
Natural History, including the Butterfly Rainforest exhibit, will be closed today for pre-ventive fumigation to protect its Lepidoptera collections and 
library resources. The museum 
will reopen Thursday. Please check flmnh.ufl.edu for more information.
Wordier Than Thou
Wordier Than Thou will host storytelling open mics, a banned books burlesque show, 
spelling bees, literary pub 
crawls and more throughout the state. Today, we’re bringing the event to Maude’s Side Car Bar. We’ll kick the evening off with two featured readers: Michele Leavitt, poet and essayist, and Peggy Macdonald, the execu-tive director of the Matheson 
History Museum and author of 
“Marjorie Harris Carr: Defender of Florida’s Environment.” They’ll be followed by 10-min-ute-long open mic slots. You can find more information about the event here: facebook.com/events/165125923860995. You can also find more infor-
mation about Wordier Than 
Thou here: facebook.com/wordierthanthou.
Yes Means Yes
Yes Means Yes is a five-week student-run positive sexual-ity seminar that is partnered with UF’s Sexual Trauma/
Interpersonal Violence 
Education and GatorWell. The objective is to create a space and opportunity for UF stu-dents to think about and ver-balize what a positive sexual experience means for them. Yes Means Yes is running each Thursday from March 9 to 
April 6. The course is capped 
at 35 students, who will each read chapters from a book by the same name, “Yes Means Yes,” and then engage criti-cally, thoughtfully and compas-sionately with a variety of top-ics during the seminars. Apply now: gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/programs/strive#Initiatives.
Trading Closets
Altrusa International’s an-nual fundraising sale of bargain-priced, high-quality women’s clothes and acces-sories is Saturday from 8 a.m. until noon at the Gainesville Woman’s Club, situated at 2809 W. University Ave. The event is free and open to the public.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 109
HIGH  73° LOW  45°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
It started with a noise complaint.
Now, a basketball court sits in 
16-year-old Tyree Thomas’ backyard.
To christen the new concrete, a 
Harlem Globetrotter played against 
“Basketball Cop,” rolling the ball 
between Gainesville Police Ofﬁ  cer Bobby White’s legs.
On Tuesday, White unveiled the 
court and its NBA-sized hoop. He also announced an upcoming foun-dation to bring basketballs and hoops to Gainesville’s youth.
“If I just let it end here, I’d be do-
ing a disservice to an inﬁ  nite number of kids,” White said.
Thomas and his friends used to 
play basketball on the street in front of his house.
On Jan. 15, his neighbor called 
police and said the kids, who range from 12 to 17 years old, were too loud.
When White arrived, he noticed 
the kids weren’t breaking any laws and decided to play with them.
His dashboard camera recorded 
the game, and GPD uploaded it to Facebook.
“It got to 50,000 (views) and I 
was like, ‘Oh, my gosh. That’s like the population of UF,’” White said. 
“And then by midnight, it hit a mil-
lion.”
Shaquille O’Neal saw the video 
and visited White and the kids on Jan. 23. The Orlando Magic later in-vited them to an NBA game.
Cliff Denney, a co-owner of One 
Love Cafe, donated the backyard court.
“One day they prepped it. The 
next day they poured it. The day af-ter that, the kids were playing on it,” White said.
As he peered over a fence Tues-
day, Larry Archer, 54, enjoyed the spectacle.
Archer said relations between po-lice and residents have not always been good. If ofﬁ  cers were in your backyard, it probably wasn’t for a 
game of ball.
“I’ve been living here for 25 years, 
and I never thought I’d see anything 
like this,” Archer said.
For Aahtrell Johnson, 17, the past month has been something he never expected.
“At ﬁ  rst, no,” he said. “But then 
Shaq came and I was like, ‘We fa-mous.’”
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.org
For neighborhood kids, a new court and a wild ride 
Aahtrell Johnson, 17, attempts a layup while being guarded by 
Pierre T oney, 15, during a three-on-three basketball game on Tuesday. Johnson, T oney and seven of their friends played on their new 25-by-30-foot concrete basketball court donated by local business owner Cliff Denney.RIGHT:
A pile of basketballs donated by Anaconda Sports sit in the back of a police car before the unveiling of the basketball court in 16-year-old Tyree Thomas’ 
backyard.
BELOW:
Ofﬁ  cer Bobby White plays bas-
ketball one-on-one with Anthony “Buckets” Blakes of the Harlem Globetrotters on Tuesday after-noon. Blakes gave 50 free tickets to the neighborhood for the Glo-betrotters game at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Thursday.
Photos by Aaron Albright/Alligator Staff4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016
LOCAL
By Kelly Currin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Starting in March, Gainesville 
residents can hit the court.
The city’s Parks, Recreation 
and Cultural Affairs Department 
announced four new co-ed sports leagues Monday.
The department will offer five-
on-five and three-on-three basket-ball, along with competitive and recreational volleyball, according to a press release.
Each league is available to any-
one 18 years or older, and five-on-five basketball also has a division for individuals 35 years or older.
Shane Wilson, a 22-year-old UF 
political science senior, currently plays on an intramural basketball team.
Wilson said the new leagues of-
fer several advantages over intra-murals.
“Intramural leagues are often 
unorganized, and the season is just too short,” he said. “I’d definitely be interested in something a little more formal and organized.”
The Martin Luther King Jr. Mul-
tipurpose Center, situated at 1028 NE 14th St., will host games once or twice a week in the evening.
Teams can register Monday 
through Thursday from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. at Building B of the Thomas Center, located at 306 NE Sixth Ave.
Michelle Weydert, the athletics 
program coordinator, said PRCA has been limited to offering co-ed and men’s softball in recent years.
In addition to the new pro-
grams, the city plans to offer even more options in the future, Wey-dert said.
“We’re trying to open up more 
sports opportunities for those in-terested adults in the community,” she said.Gainesville 
offers new sports programs 
Five-on-five team 
registration:  
$300
Three-on-three team
registration:  
$200
Referee costs:  
$10 to $20 per game
Volleyball team 
registration:  
$150
Deadlines, forms, dates and locations: 
CityofGainesvilleParks.orgvery personal work of art.”
Ilana Sterling, a UF advertising sopho-
more, said she first heard about No Southern 
Accent at Preview.
“My mom thinks that I’m a good singer, 
so she wanted me to audition for it,” the 20-year-old said. “I told them I only like sing-
ing in the shower.”
Although she’s not a part of the group, 
she said she goes to every No Southern Ac-
cent concert to support friends who are.
“I’m an a cappella groupie now,” she said. 
“It literally gives me the chills sitting in the 
audience.”
Sterling said she hasn’t listened to the group’s first album because she never met the performers who recorded that album.
“I’m excited for this one coming up be-
cause I actually know the people in the group 
now,” she said. “To make such a great sound 
only using their voices is just crazy.”
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgALBUM,  from pg 1The title of the album is ‘Good to the Last Drop’
Courtesy to the Alligator
No Southern Accent, a UF a cappella group, will release “Good to the Last Drop” on Friday on iTunes, Spotify and Loudr, a website where 
artists sell song covers. The group, founded in 2001, released one other album in April 2011.
the meeting rising in support.
“I’m very excited to lead you 
all throughout this next term,” 
Clements said. “I’m excited to get to work.”
Meyers won pro tempore, also 
with 84 votes.
“I want to offer an open-door 
policy to all of y’all,” Meyers said, referring to senators from both 
parties. “If we can all develop 
that mentality, we will be able to accomplish so much good.”
SG held back-to-back meet-
ings, welcoming newly elected senators as others finished their terms.
An amendment to the agenda 
passed during the first meeting, 
certifying election results for the 
Spring Student Government elec-tion held Feb. 17. Erica Baker, the 
UF supervisor of elections, didn’t 
attend the meeting.
A few tears were later shed as 12 senators gave goodbye speeches during the first meeting. 
Replacement senator Katherine 
Feldner also left senate.
Replacement senators for Dis-
trict A, B, C and D were approved unanimously. Dakota Stanford was unanimously approved to be 
on the allocations committee.
UF Student Body President Jo-
selin Padron-Rasines spoke about 
the success of Gator Day, where senators, students and UF admin-istrators traveled to Tallahassee 
to lobby for funding. She said she 
believes the students were suc-cessful in lobbying for Norman Hall and mental health resources.
“We have high hopes for the 
passage of the Norman Hall fund-ing,” she said.
She also talked about how she 
launched an SG remote online 
voting code-revising task force 
for the 700 codes, with the hopes of online voting being implement-ed in the Fall. The Student Body 
passed an amendment for online 
voting during the Spring 2016 SG election.
Sen. Chris Boyett (College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences, Im-
pact), was expelled from the Sen-
ate for failing to meet with his constituents during his time as a senator.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgSENATE,  from pg 1All replacement senators were approved unanimously
Andres Leiva/Alligator Staff
Former Senate President Pro-T empore Jenny Clements is sworn 
in as Senate President by UF Student Body Chief Justice Andy Schein in the Reitz Union Senate Chamber on Tuesday night.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Madison Behm
Alligator Contributing Writer
A shark submarine will roll 
down the streets of Gainesville 
on Saturday.Active Streets Alliance 
planned Menagerie in Motion, 
a design competition in which 
people build and ride human-powered floats.
From 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., par-ticipants will ride their creations on a 1.5-mile route near Depot 
Park.
Joseph Floyd, executive di-
rector for the alliance, said the 
event will start near the future Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention, which will be situated 
at 904 S. Main St.
Nineteen handmade floats are 
registered for the event, which is 
free for spectators, Floyd said.
“In my heart and mind I have 
to believe if you show people just how awesome the world can be, they can get behind that,” he said.
The next closest kinetic derby 
is about 800 miles away in Balti-more, Floyd said.
Raymond Rawls, an inde-
pendent artist and float creator, 
helped Floyd get the project roll-
ing.
Of his five current creations, 
Rawls said a horseshoe crab is 
the newest, but the alligator is 
his favorite.
“We’re in Gainesville, so of 
course we had to build a gator, but I just feel like it’s really in-
dicative of the area, both in na-
ture and on campus,” he said.
The creations take anywhere 
from two weeks to one year to 
build, Rawls said, but the effort 
is worthwhile.
“This is all really about the 
experience and the community we build,” he said.Handmade creatures to roam Gainesville
IT FOCUSES ON IMPROVING 
WARDROBES OF YOUNG MEN.
By Hannah Ogden
Alligator Contributing Writer
Five men are on a mission to make 
Gainesville dapper.
After attending a basketball game at Santa 
Fe College and noticing about 50 people in nearly the same outfit, Johnathan Alexander founded the Dapperville Gentlemen’s Organi-zation.
In January, Dapperville hosted a work-
shop at the Grove Park Community Christian Church in Hawthorne for boys ages 10 to 13 on how to tie a necktie, Alexander said.
On April 12, he said, the men will teach 
students at Newberry High School the impor-tance of self-presentation.    
“You don’t need a million bucks to feel like 
a million bucks,” he said.
Alexander said sweatpants and sneakers 
are his grocery store attire.
On a normal day, Alexander might wear a 
blazer over his button-down shirt, accompa-nied by European-cut jeans, brown boots and 
a fedora.
“We live in a society where perception is 
made to be a reality,” Alexander said.Tyler Wyszkowski, Dapperville’s co-found-
er and chief marketing officer, said it was not 
long before they came up with the name.
“John always loved the word ‘dapper,’ and 
we are from Gainesville, hence Dapperville,” said Wyszkowski.
Dapperville, Alexander said, is built upon 
the pillars of reputation, organization and confidence.
He said the group hopes to add new mem-
bers and travel to new regions in the future.
“If you want to get somewhere in life, you 
have to care about how you dress,” Alexander said. “I want to show people how important that is.”From Gainesville to Dapperville: a group’s missionBy Brenna McKenna
Alligator Contributing Writer
Engineers Without Borders is 
letting students vote for a profes-sor to pie.
The fundraiser aims to raise 
$500 out of the $13,000 needed 
to travel to Bo-livia in May. 
The money will 
go toward pur-
chasing materi-als to provide residents with 
water filtration 
and irrigation 
systems to grow 
crops.
The group 
of seven stu-dents going to Bolivia asked five UF profes-
sors to partici-
pate in the fun-draiser, said 
Caroline Young, 
a UF mechani-
cal engineering 
senior. Students can donate $1 on the Plaza 
of the Ameri-
cas this week to pick which 
of the profes-
sors will have a whipped-cream pie thrown at them at 11 a.m. Friday on Turl-
ington Plaza.
“We thought 
it would be 
a fun way to 
get the rest of 
our school in-volved with our project,” the 22-year-old said.
Aaron Thom-
as, a UF chemi-cal engineering 
senior, said he will travel to Bo-
livia for the third time with the 
group this summer. On the trip, he will monitor the equipment in-stalled to filter water.
“It’s cool that I can also say 
that I’m the one that will be us-ing the money, so I can for sure tell you where it’s going,” the 22-year-old said.
Young said if the group reach-
es its goal of $500, they’ve gotten permission to throw a pie at an-other UF faculty member.
“If we reach that amount, then 
we’re also going to pie President Fuchs, which would be really cool,” she said.Students 
vote to pie a professor
Abbitt
Mitchell
Simmons
T aylor
Dickrell
CAMPUS
TOP LEFT:
A variety of floats made by 
Raymond Rawls bike down University Avenue during the UF Homecoming Parade on Nov. 6, 2015. Rawls’ creations will be featured at Active Streets Alliance’s Menagerie in Motion event on Saturday.
BOTTOM LEFT:
Raymond Rawls rides one of his custom-made floats down University Avenue during the UF Homecoming Parade on Nov. 6, 2015. Of his five cre-ations that will be featured at the Menagerie in Motion event on Saturday, Rawls said the alligator his favorite.
Photos courtesy to the Alligator
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Common sense, 
not partisanship, 
can prevail
When we talk about Florida politics, we usually do so in 
language expressing exasperation and disbelief. There is, after all, plenty to be angry about these days: State-wide, the ongoing battle over whether to allow fracking in Florida has intensiﬁ  ed in recent days, and here in 
Gainesville, we’re contending with how to best correct overbill-ing and mismanagement on the part of Gainesville Regional Utili-ties and the Gainesville Renewable Energy Center.
There’s also the not-so-little matter of gun legislation. As we 
reported Feb. 5, the Florida House of Representatives passed two bills aimed at allowing registered gun owners to openly carry ﬁ  rearms in Florida. As it stands, Florida is one of four states that do not allow ﬁ  rearms to be carried, well, anywhere in public. Naturally, this law also applies to college campuses.
We ﬁ  nd it silly that such bills would even be drafted, as Flor-
ida is doing just ﬁ  ne on regrettable gun violence without them. Back in November, the Jacksonville-based Florida Times-Union published an extended story — complete with a compilation of relevant cases in Duval County — on Florida’s Stand Your Ground laws, which have become the center of national contro-versy, particularly following the 2012 murder of Trayvon Martin. In their research, they came upon several instances where Stand Your Ground not only failed to protect those it was meant to help, 
meaning Floridians seeking to make self-defense claims, but also 
created further ambiguities for lawyers and defendants seeking recourse through our state’s legal system; this is without even acknowledging the uncomfortable racial politics behind the law.
With both our state’s polarized political climate and gun-crazy 
culture in mind, we expected the worst when the two aforemen-tioned open-carry bills reached the Florida Senate. But something remarkable happened in Tallahassee on Friday: Sen. Miguel Diaz de la Portilla, R-Miami, refused to hear the bills. Because the bills 
had been assigned to the Senate Judiciary Committee, which 
Diaz de la Portilla chairs, his refusal to hear them more or less sentenced them to an ignominious death. When explaining his decision, Diaz de la Portilla said his reasoning stemmed from “Really nothing more than common sense.”
If it weren’t Wednesday and we didn’t abide by our own strict, 
self-imposed rules, we’d give Diaz de la Portilla ALL of the Lau-rels. Operating on principle, rather than answering to lobbyists, is what good politicking is — or at least ought to be — all about.
“I just don’t think any of these bills are necessary,” Diaz de 
la Portilla said when talking to The Sun Sentinel on his policies. “And I don’t think any of these bills have anything to do with gun rights. They have to do with public safety, and I don’t think any of these bills make us any safer. In fact, quite the opposite.”
In the same article, Diaz de la Portilla went on to say, “I think 
there’s a reason why every college and university president and all campus law enforcement are all against campus carry. And with open carry, same thing… Just because you have a concealed 
carry permit and just because you have a handgun doesn’t mean 
you’re trained to respond in an emergency situation.”
We couldn’t agree more. In a time when “Home Alone 2: Lost 
in New York” star Donald Trump is the GOP front runner and American politicians on both sides of the aisle seem more inter-ested in serving their respective parties than their people, it is comforting, if only slightly, to know some elected representatives still value their morals and consciences over party prerogative and interest-group favoritism.Spelling black liberation with a capital ‘B’ 
I am not black, and I will never grasp the depth of the suffering, past and present, of the members of the African diaspora. 
I cannot fathom the horror and heart-
break of being uprooted from my ancestral 
homeland per the collusion of rich Europeans, Arabs and African warlords. Although West-erners love to praise capitalism as a shimmer-ing accomplishment of Western “civilization,” they too-often forget its underpinning: slavery.
I am unable to even glimpse the anguish 
and despair of being a slave, afforded not even a name or a family. 
I was never relegated, de jure, to second-class legal 
status in the country of my birth due to the color of my skin. I never had a separate water fountain or park bench. I never had to live in fear of being lynched.
I attended a high school that was adequately funded, 
and none of my family members languishes incarcerated as a pawn of a massive prison industrial complex and its friend, the “criminal justice system,” that instrumental-izes and creates crime as a means to greater proﬁ  t.
I marched Dec. 8, 2014, in Gainesville’s triumphant 
#BlackLivesMatter march and was profoundly depressed by a eulogy read for all the black lives cut short by in-stitutional violence, in which a young woman reiterated the thought that black Americans are just trying to live in the land they built. I felt that sadness, but it is still just a feeling, not my lived experience.
I can listen to Nina Simone, when she sings poignant-
ly and prophetically: “Oh Baltimore, ain’t it hard just to live,” but I’ve never been systematically targeted by the 
police and no one has poisoned my water supply as a 
matter of policy.
This is all to say we shouldn’t delude ourselves with 
the ﬁ  ction that our country is “post-racial” or that any American can be “colorblind.” As James Baldwin exhort-ed us, we ought not look up to the powerful to determine what system of “justice” they have put in place. Rather, we look to the powerless, the dispossessed: those the system eats alive. From them, we can derive righteous 
indignation from which to fashion our solidarity.Though no non-black person will ever 
glimpse the trials endured by our brothers and 
sisters, we can stand in solidarity and ﬁ  ght against the aforementioned structures, expos-ing them and dismantling them brick by brick.
I will speak thus to that which I know best: 
linguistics. I am compelled to examine the sta-tus of Ebonics in America, as well as the tropes employed by popular media that still diminish and insult black Americans.
The mere mention of Ebonics is controver-
sial. Various proposals to teach it as a distinct 
dialect of English, or even use it as a language of in-struction, have been decried as “the Ebonic plague” and 
“teaching to the lowest common denominator.” Just as 
Ebonics is treated as a bastardization of “standard Eng-lish,” blackness, too, is treated as a non-default, diminu-tive and qualiﬁ  ed mode of existence.
Look no further than many of our nation’s publica-
tions, which arbitrarily distinguish between White cul-ture and black culture; the White experience and the black experience. The two adjectives function identical-ly, yet many see ﬁ  t to allot more emphasis to one than 
the other.
We know full well corporate media does its part in 
smearing the existence of black Americans. Black youth 
after black youth has been blamed on TV for his murder by the same apparatus that writes off Black Lives Matter as hooligans who “make life hard for the police.” And now, they assert the extremely false equivalence of the Black Panthers and the Ku Klux Klan. The word libera-tion is taught to us as a monicker of violence, because 
those who hijacked English long since have everything to 
lose if their subjects shake off their yoke.
Liberation is but a path to this freedom — a casting off 
of the shackles of oppression.
As Marx wrote, the oppressed have nothing to lose 
but their chains, and a world to win. May we all stand in solidarity with our black brothers and sisters in their struggle for liberation and freedom.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics 
master’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Grown men can say it 
has always been their dream to end up with 
the jobs they have to-
day, but they would be 
lying. For anyone who has ever picked up a basketball growing 
up, they can attest to the fact 
that they eagerly waited for the day they’d be able to slam a rubber ball into a metal hoop situated 10 feet off the ground professionally. Unfor-
tunately, for many of us, that day never 
comes.
These sort of dreams aren’t limited 
merely to basketball. Maybe it’s hitting a 
ball out of Fenway Park, scoring a touch-
down in the Super Bowl or competing in the Olympics. The point is, there is a dif-ferent level of passion met with our child-hood dreams. 
Apparently, there is a point in time 
when those passions are substituted with measly second choices. These compro-mises simply don’t wake people up in the 
morning the same way those early aspira-
tions did.
After being diagnosed with amyo-
trophic lateral sclerosis, or ALS, Lou Geh-rig stood in front of a crowd in the last 
game he ever played and said, “Today I 
consider myself the luckiest man on the face of the earth… Thank you.” 
Kobe Bryant is only retiring because 
his body is physically giving up on him. Brett Favre would still play today if a team would sign him. And although Chris Bosh had another blood clot scare, it is not a question of whether he will retire, 
but when he will come to play basketball 
again.
People with a passion for sports may 
have to be dragged off the court or ﬁ  eld, 
but many students who wake up with the 
wrong mentality have to be dragged to class. 
The main difference between sport 
dreams and other dreams can be summa-
rized by a quote from the movie “Money-
ball”: “We’re all told at some point in time that we can no longer play the children’s game, we just don’t... don’t know when that’s gonna be. Some of us are told at 18, some of us are told at 40, but we’re all told.”
Although they may have 
been told, 40-year-old men aren’t discouraged from playing a quick pickup game no matter 
their ages or skill levels, which 
is what distinguishes sports from everything else. 
The saying may get old, but it still holds 
true: It’s more than a game; it’s a passion. 
On that note, only a very small minor-
ity would practice physics problems or read 16th-century literature when it’s not required.
There are some physical restraints to 
reaching dreams in sports. No matter the work ethic or ability to see with a larger vision, some of us are just never going to stand at 6-foot-8 or throw a 95-mph fast-
ball. 
The good thing is that childhoods are 
ﬁ  lled with more than just sports. Students 
are hopefully working toward the degree 
of their dreams with mere restrictions of 
exam scores and pesky homework. 
So if career goals aren’t restricted by 
height or athletic prowess, why do people try harder in those fun but meaningless 
pickup games than in hair-pulling but nec-
essary studying?
From the ﬁ  rst day of walking to the 
last day of life, people love passions like 
sports. Natural expert or lifetime novice, 
they indulge in their passion. Even if a majority of grown men can’t dunk a bas-ketball, there are still children in them who wish they could. 
In everyone, along with physically lim-
ited dreams, there are other goals that may be tough but possible. 
If people looked to write, create and 
help others at the same rate people play childhood games, passions would soar be-yond goals. 
All it takes is remembering what it felt 
like to pick up that basketball for the ﬁ  rst 
time.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF chemical engi-
neering freshman. His column appears on 
Wednesdays.Dunk a basketball: Every boy’s dreamColumn
On Feb. 19, beloved American author Nelle Harper Lee passed 
away peacefully in her 
sleep at the age of 89.
Lee was one of those great 
American giants of literature. 
It’s a testament to just how 
important she was that she be-came so esteemed and regarded despite only publishing two books — the second of which, “Go Set a Watchman,” 
was published more than 50 years after 
the first. 
The first time I ever read “To Kill a 
Mockingbird” was in ninth grade, in the 
class of an English teacher who forced us 
to think critically and made us write bru-tally concise sentences. She infuriated the heck out of me.
At the time, I liked the way Lee weaved 
words and pictures. She managed to per-fectly conjure the way I felt when I re-membered the smell of my grandmother, the sturdiness of a smooth wooden church 
pew under my knees during choir class in 
pre-school and that bitter, lemon-behind-my-teeth taste that comes when I’m dis-appointed in myself.
But despite appreciating her prose, 
I didn’t understand the book. I was an-noyed by Scout, who does not resemble how I was as a child, and I was puzzled and scared by Boo Radley instead of un-
derstanding the sadness of his story. I 
was even bothered by Atticus Finch, the hailed literary hero who, at least until “Go Set a Watchman,” stood against all things bigoted and small-minded.
I remember grousing to someone un-
fortunate enough to be around me when I was in young-teenage-rant mode that At-ticus was annoying because he never ac-
tually explained anything. 
Why didn’t he tell Scout and Jem any-
thing? Why did he just nod sagely and ex-
pect them to feel all the right and good and moral things?
But I was, of course, missing the point. 
Growing up, I liked to have things ex-plained. I wanted detailed reports pre-sented to me, with everything relevant filed and highlighted for my convenience. I liked to have clear-cut reasons for things, and 
I liked them to be fair. I consid-
ered it everyone’s responsibil-ity to take this duty to fairness upon him or herself and fight 
the good fight with it. 
“Deal with it, Sally,” came 
the inevitable refrain. “Life isn’t 
fair.”
Whenever I heard that old adage, my 
young self started fuming. Yes, I knew the 
world isn’t fair; I got it. My question was: Why aren’t you doing what you can to change that?
I’m still not convinced the whole “life 
isn’t fair” argument is an effective way to evade advocating for a positive change. In my experience, blindly acquiescing to a status quo simply because it’s traditional 
or personally comfortable usually results 
in shutting out other voices and under-valuing other perspectives.
But who taught me to reevaluate the 
status quo? Who forced me to question things that seem fair but aren’t really when you stop to look and listen?
Rereading Lee’s classic novel my fresh-
man year of college was a very different 
experience.
Musicians might have one-hit won-
ders, but Lee’s one-book wonder was 
a call to action, a racial reckoning and 
a song of the South all rolled into one. 
Even decades later, the sequel, “Go Set A Watchman,” managed to be blatant and piercing enough to smack America on its self-satisfied head once more.
Lee showed me how to search for my 
own answers and explanations, and I ask anyone who feels the same way to never forget her impact. 
Lee’s characters are complicated and 
flawed, but they push us all — with a slow, sweet rhythm and a cutting lemon-sting — to be better Southerners, better Americans and better people.
With that said: Thank you, Harper Lee.Sally Greider is an English and public 
relations junior. Her column appears on Wednesdays.Remembering author Harper LeeColumn
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016
Study reveals workers mislabel dogs
A UF professor has found that shelter workers 
wrongly label dogs as pit bulls.
In a study, 16 shelter workers were asked to identify 
dog breeds based on appearance, said Julie Levy, the 
researcher on the study and a UF professor in the Col-lege of Veterinary Medicine. DNA from each dog was analyzed to test accuracy.
Shelter workers thought one in ﬁ  ve dogs weren’t 
pit bulls when they actually were, she said. At least one staff member labeled one in three dogs as pit bulls when they weren’t. The study was conducted using 120 dogs in four shelters, she said.
“People looking at dogs and calling them pit bulls is 
not really accurate,” she said.
Mislabeling a dog as a pit bull, which is not a breed, 
can affect adoptions, she said. The dogs actually come 
from the American Staffordshire terrier or the Stafford-
shire bull terrier.
But mislabeling the dogs could affect owners’ ability 
to ﬁ  nd housing or get insurance, she said.
She said because shelter workers may not be able to 
correctly guess a dog’s breed, it would be more accu-rate to provide a description of the dog instead.
“It would be better to describe a dog based on size, 
color and behavior, because that is what people are 
looking for,” she said.Eating almonds could improve health
A study has proved eating a few almonds a day can 
improve one’s diet.
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences’ Food 
Science and Human Nutrition Department conducted the 
study to see if almonds improved diet quality, said Bobbi Langkamp-Henken, the lead researcher. This was mea-sured using the healthy eating index, which measures of 
diet quality based on foods consumed.
Children ages three to six participated along with their 
parents, she said. Parents ate 1.5 ounces of almonds, and 
children ate half an ounce every day for three weeks.
“We gave the parents and the child — and actually 
the whole family — almonds and told them (to) incorpo-rate them into their diet,” Langkamp-Henken said.
Throughout the study, almonds were used as a re-
placement for salty foods, she said.
“People don’t get enough vitamin E,” Langkamp-
Henken said. “Almonds are a good source of vitamin E.”
Henken said she was surprised the children had no 
problem eating almonds or almond butter. She didn’t ex-pect all of them to follow the guidelines for the length of 
the study.
“This is pretty exciting, because it means that we may 
be able to incorporate other healthy foods into a child’s 
diet to make further improvements in overall diet qual-
ity,” Langkamp-Henken said.Fasting and feasting can be beneficial 
A new study has found a feast-and-famine diet can 
extend people’s lives.
For the study, participants alternated between fasting 
by eating a quarter of the calories they would normally 
consume during one sitting in the afternoon, said Martin Wegman, a co-author for the study. The next day, they would eat 175 percent of their normal calories.
This diet gave participants the beneﬁ  ts of fasting 
without putting the body under the amount of stress it would undergo without food for long periods of time, he said.
With all participants doing a fast-and-famine diet, 
they were then divided into two groups, Wegman said. One group didn’t receive antioxidants, including vita-mins C and E. The other did.
Wegman said all participants had a hard time feast-
ing and consuming the necessary amount of food in one day.
After three weeks, Wegman said he reversed the 
groups receiving vitamins. He found marginal increases in the health of participants, and a decrease in their base 
levels of insulin decreased.
Wegman said the study was a pilot to see the beneﬁ  ts 
of antioxidants.
“It can contribute to understanding why antioxidants 
may not be as beneﬁ  cial as we thought,” Wegman said.
- Carolina Garcia - John Avery Guyton - 
 Lauren RowlandRESEARCH ROUNDUPBy Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville restaurants are selling grilled 
chicken sandwiches with fries for $5 until 
Sunday.
The city’s second annual Grilled Chicken 
Week started Monday, and a coupon is avail-
able on the Gift Certiﬁ  cates and More app.
Gator’s Dockside, Texas Roadhouse, Cai-
ro Grille, Napolatano’s Restaurant, Chomps 
Sports Grill, Beef ‘O’ Brady’s and TGI Fridays are included in the promotion.
“Since we’re 100 percent digital, and 
since it’s gift certiﬁ  cates — literally free mon-ey — it hasn’t been that challenging to get students,”said Kevin Awe, the marketing di-
rector for the app. “I think more students like 
the quality of our service, so they are coming on board.”  He said people must ﬁ  rst create a free ac-
count on the app, and the coupon is listed un-der a category for Grilled Chicken Week.
However, not everyone is excited about 
the discount.
Manny Rutinel, the vice president of UF’s 
Student Animal Alliance, said he does not support coupons for animal products. Rutinel, a 21-year-old UF microbiology and economics senior, said he believes animal products are bad for people, animals and the environment.
However, Rutinel said the promotion will 
not stop him from possibly using the app for vegan-oriented deals.
“I think that helping out companies who 
are sponsoring vegan products is a great way to encourage them to keep doing that,” he said.
For people who feel otherwise, the coupon 
is available throughout the week, Awe said.  
“It’s a great deal,” he said.  App, local businesses 
partner for week of chickenBy Jessica Schein
Alligator Contributing Writer
GatorWell is educating students about pos-
itive body image this week.    
The Celebrate Every Body event series 
started Monday and ends Thursday, said 
Natalie Rella, a health promotion specialist 
at GatorWell. In 2014, GatorWell hosted four 
events. It planned three events this year in honor of National Eating Disorders Aware-ness Week.
GatorWell held the BeYOUtiful Health and 
Wellness Fair on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday to allow GatorWell partners such as KIND Healthy Snacks and the Student Health Care Center to discuss positive body image.
KIND had students write something posi-
tive on a compliment card to give to another student. To receive a shirt at the event, stu-dents visited organizations’ tables and wrote three things they love about themselves that don’t involve their physical appearance.
Rella said GatorWell is trying to get stu-dents to accept their bodies.
“We are trying to reach people before they 
reach the point of having an eating disorder 
by giving them some love around and ask-
ing them to reﬂ  ect on all of the wonderful and amazing things this organism that is their body does for them every day,” she said.
Meaghan Nguyen, a UF architecture sopho-
more, represented KIND. She said she wanted to promote body positivity and self-kindness.
“They thought it would be a good idea for 
me to come here and interact with the stu-
dents because our message also is to be kind,” 
the 20-year-old said.Celebrating every body   at UF
By JW Glass
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s College of Education has se-
lected 40 teachers from across Flori-
da for a new fellowship.
The Lastinger Center for Learning selected them out of more than 215 applicants to be part of the 18-month Florida Teacher Leader Fellows pro-
gram, said Rebekah Cordova, the 
professional development coordi-nator for the program. It will train 
teachers to inspire students and im-
prove the quality of teaching in the state.
Fellows will also complete a re-
search project they can apply to their 
community, she said. In June, partic-ipants will come to UF to share their ideas with others.
“We’ve worked with teacher 
leaders from all over the state and 
have for many years,” Cordova said. 
“It’s always been a goal to have one group from across the state, instead of just inside districts.”
The center selected the 40 based 
on their desire for teaching and their willingness to collaborate with their peers, she said. The center wants to improve instructional practices across the state. They considered teachers, media specialists, guidance 
counselors and anyone who showed 
promise.
Charles Cummings, a Florida Vir-tual School instructor, was selected for the program.
“I was super stoked to hear back 
from it and to be selected for it out of so many people,” he said. “It’s crazy.”
He said he’s looking forward to 
working with teachers who work in 
a classroom, not online.
“I’m eager to see what the future 
brings with it,” he said. UF College of Education begins new fellowship program
40 teachers were selectedEveryBODY Can Exercise
 Thursday from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m. on Plaza of the Americas
 Students will participate in yoga
 If students participate in a 15-minute yoga session, they re-
ceive a free yoga mat that reads 
“Celebrate Every Body.”WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Contributing Writer
After several years of 352Cre-
ates, the program is changing its 
layout Friday.
As part of a 10-year initiative, 
Gainesville hosts an annual day 
of art throughout the city. But this 
year’s celebration will also feature a centralized event.
Lot 10, a venue situated at 100 
SW First Ave., will host free music, 
poetry, sing-alongs, drum circles 
and hands-on art activities from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m., according to a press release.
Russell Etling, cultural affairs 
manager for the Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs De-partment, said about 500 people are expected to attend. 
The UF Health Shands Arts in 
Medicine program partnered with PRCA to host the event, which still includes events throughout town.
“We wanted to have a central 
event where we could get a lot of people doing creative things at once,” said Etling.
Research from UF Health found 
that creativity is good for the health of both Gainesville and its resi-dents, he said.Participants are encouraged to 
post their creations on social me-
dia using the hashtag #352Creates, 
according to the UF College of the Arts website.
Jill Sonke, the director of UF’s 
Center for the Arts in Medicine, said she is excited to watch people express their artistic freedom.
“We believe strongly that 
creativity and arts is a part of a 
healthy lifestyle,” she said. “We 
want to have a healthy, thriving community.”  352Creates adds new event in Gainesville on Friday
 Sidewalk chalking
 Gainesville-Hawthorne  State Trail, 3400 SE 15th St.
 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.
 Cookie painting
 Blue Gill Quality Foods, 
 1310 SW 13th St.
 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
 352Creates at Lot 10
 100 SW First Ave.
 4 p.m. to 7 p.m.
Police arrest man for attempted murder
A Chicago man was arrested in Gainesville on Tuesday 
morning after police said he nearly shot someone in the head.
At about 3 a.m. Tuesday, Christian Jamel Harris, 21, en-
tered an unlocked unit of The Laurels, an apartment complex 
on Southwest 34th Street, according to a police report.
Harris and an accomplice then walked 
into a bedroom, where they found a man, according to the report.
Harris put his gun to the man’s head 
and demanded money, according to the report. As the man pushed the gun away from his head, Harris ﬁ  red.
He narrowly missed the man’s head, 
but the muzzle ﬂ  ash left a burn on his 
neck, Gainesville Police spokesman Ofﬁ  -
cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
Detectives think Harris might have speciﬁ  cally targeted 
the man, Tobias said.
“This is not a random attack,” he said.After leaving the unit empty-handed, Harris and his part-
ner tried to get back in through a window, according to the report. From inside, the man’s mother yelled and the intrud-ers left. Police later found Harris hiding in a bush outside 
the apartment complex. His accomplice was found near the 
entrance and was not arrested, according to the report.
Police arrested Harris on charges of attempted murder 
and home invasion robbery with a deadly weapon. Authori-ties took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains without bond.Man arrested with 13 ounces of weed
A Kissimmee, Florida, man was arrested Monday 
night after police said they found three ounces of mari-
juana in the trunk of his car.
At about 6:30 p.m. Monday, Reynaldo Jordan, 39, fol-
lowed a car too closely on State Road 93, according to a 
police report.
After police pulled him over, Jordan 
gave them permission to search his car, 
according to the report.
Police with the Gainesville-Alachua 
County Drug Task Force found about 10 grams of weed in a red sweatshirt in 
Jordan’s trunk, according to the report.
The weed was packaged in four 
small bags, according to the report.
After searching further, police found three ounces — 
85 grams — of weed in a white envelope that was also in 
his trunk, according to the report.
Jordan told police he forgot the weed was in his car 
when he consented to the search, according to the report.
He then told police he uses the weed for medicinal 
purposes, according to the report.
Police arrested Jordan on a charge of possessing more 
than 20 grams of marijuana.
Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail 
where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $15,000 bond.Police: Woman threatens to kill neighbors
A Gainesville woman was arrested Monday afternoon af-
ter police said she swung a hammer and knife around Sunset 
Apartments.
At about 5 p.m. Monday, Asheeria Jashondrea Hender-
son, 25, screamed at one of her neighbors who was walking 
down a stairwell to her own apartment, ac-cording to a police report.
“What’s up, p---- hoe?” Henderson 
said, according to the report.
As her neighbor kept walking, Hen-
derson entered her own apartment and emerged with a hammer, according to the report.
“I will kill one of you hoes,” she said, 
according to the report.
Henderson again returned to her apartment and grabbed a 
knife, according to the report.
From an upstairs balcony, Henderson threatened to stab 
her 19- and 20-year-old neighbors, according to the report.
She later ran across the balcony and spit on one of the 
women’s chests, according to the report. No one was injured.
Henderson told police her neighbors threatened to ﬁ  ght 
her, which is why she grabbed the weapons from her apart-
ment, according to the report.
She could not be reached for comment as of press time.
Police arrested Henderson on a charge of battery and two 
charges of aggravated assault without intent to kill. Authori-ties took her to the Alachua County Jail where she was re-leased on her own recognizance Tuesday.
WEENIES AND NUTS
Kara Gregoire, a 19-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering freshman, passes 
between the Oscar Mayer Wienermobile and the Planters NUTmobile outside the Hub on Tuesday afternoon. The Wienermobile and Nutmobile tour around the country promoting Oscar Mayer and Planters products, respectively. 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
- Martin VassoloHarris
 Henderson
 Jordan
- Martin Vassolo - Martin VassoloIt promotes creativityWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
For rent - 8/15/2016 to 8/14/2017. Private owner has 4 bedroom/4 private bathrooms, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer on bus route 1 mile from UF. ONE YEAR LEASE. $375/mo/room Call 352-586-6468    3-9-16-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
1/1 Apt. 669/mo. Walking distance to UF. 
Pets ok. Has pool and laundry room. Call 352-213-9780 or 352-575-4889    3-8-16-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
MR CHEAP ROOMClose to campus $180/mo.
Call Rob 375-8606                 2-25-5-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Fuji Bike, Model Spotif, 54", Black, Gatorskin 700x28 tires, helmet- NEVER USED- $500-Call 352-332-5054    3-8-16-5-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-1298 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
Designated drivers are the greatest97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199996 Cadillac Deville $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13
★★★ WANTED TO RENT ★★★
60 year old, disabled American Veteran 
seeks to rent an efficiency, studio apt, cot-
tage? Preferrably in the historic district. 813-
858-3952    2-24-1-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-9-16-10-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Servers Needed...
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St      2-24-16-5-14
Server needed for busy Lisa's Corner Cafe. Some mornings & afternoons, 4-5 shifts/week. No nights. Exp pref. Own transporation. Energetic & depend-able. Train now. Server rate + tips ~$13-17/hr. Apply 1-4pm 125 NW 23rd Ave Ste #9.    2-25-16-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Seeking responsible and engaging individual to supervise and work with children grades 1st through 8th in our After School Program. M-F, 2:25-6:00 PM. Must be 18 years or older. Start immediately. Please submit resume and application to mmschool@millhopper.com    3-14-16-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
B&E Locksmith
Lockedout? Lost keys? We can help!352-535-0532                          2-24-16-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida women's basketball 
team is led by junior Ronni Williams.Read the story on pg. 16.By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
Usually, Florida’s offense is the 
issue. On Tuesday night, its defense 
was equally as bad.
With 6:38 left in the game, Flor-
ida was down by just two points. The Gators went 0-3 on their next three possessions with a chance 
to tie or take the lead. Vanderbilt’s Wade Baldwin IV then hit a three-
pointer, and the Commodores ended the game on a 17-7 run while the 
Gators missed 10 of their final 13 
shot attempts.
Florida fell to Vanderbilt 87-74 
in the Gators’ second-straight home 
loss after starting the season 12-1 at 
the O’Connell Center. The Gators (17-11, 8-7 Southeastern Confer-ence) never led in the game. "We don’t have an identity," red-
shirt sophomore John Egbunu said. "We pride ourselves on the defen-sive end of the floor, and we really didn’t do a good job of that tonight."
The Commodores’ 87 points 
and 57.7 field-goal percentage were both season highs given up by Flor-ida’s defense. UF has now lost two 
straight games for just the second 
time this season.
The end of the first half couldn’t 
have gone much worse for the Gators. While trying to tie or take the lead going into halftime, Schuy-ler Rimmer had a layup attempt blocked by guard Matthew Fisher-Davis. The ball found the hands of Vanderbilt’s Josh Henderson, who 
heaved an 80-foot line-drive three-
pointer and nailed it at the buzzer.
Instead of a tied game at half-
time, Vanderbilt (17-11, 9-6 SEC) led 
40-35. The Commodores celebrated 
the buzzer-beater while many of the Gators had their hands on their knees wondering what had just hap-
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Boren named SEC Freshman Gymnast of the Week
Florida's Alicia Boren was named the Southeastern Conference Freshman 
Gymnast of the Week on Tuesday. The freshman finished as the runner-up in the all-around in the Gators' win over Missouri on Friday.BASEBALL
By Luis T orres
Sports Writer
It might’ve been perceived as 
an insignificant moment when 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan made a call to the bullpen in the ninth 
inning of Florida’s win against 
Florida Gulf Coast on Sunday.
Entering the frame, the Gators 
were up 12-3 and were poised to 
open the season 3-0 by sweeping FGCU. O’Sullivan could’ve cho-
sen to send out Jackson Kowar 
for his second inning of work 
after the freshman gave up three runs in the eighth.
But instead, O’Sullivan decid-
ed to call on Scott Moss to close out the series.
And while the remaining fans 
at McKethan Stadium might’ve thought it was just another call to the bullpen, for Moss, it was a call he'd been waiting two years for.
Moss didn’t make an appear-
ance for the Gators in his first two seasons.
The redshirt sophomore had 
Tommy John Surgery before his freshman year, and it caused him to miss time.
Tonight, Moss will make his 
first career start at 7 in Game 2 of the Gators’ midweek series against Eastern Michigan at Lake-land’s Joker Marchant Stadium.
"I’m healthy for the first time 
since, what was it, my fall of my freshman year, so I mean I’m happy and ready to go finally," Moss said.
 "I’ve been out for two years. 
I’ve watched these guys win SEC Championships, go to the College World Series, so it’s nice to final-
ly get going and doing what I’m 
born to do basically." 
O’Sullivan said Moss could’ve 
pitched toward the end of last 
year, but he decided against it so 
Moss could be healthy entering 
this year.UF pitcher 
makes long-anticipated debut
SEE MOSS,  PAGE 14Ian Cohen / Alligator Staff
Florida forward Justin Leon drives into the paint during UF's 87-74 loss to Vanderbilt on Tuesday in the O'Connell Center.
Florida falls to Vanderbilt as defense falters
THE GATORS DEFEATED THE 
EAGLES 12-4.
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Before Tuesday, JJ Schwarz hadn’t been 
himself.
The sophomore collected just one hit over 
UF’s first three games this weekend, but he 
broke out against Eastern Michigan.
Schwarz launched his first home run of 
the season in the fourth inning against EMU Tuesday night, a two-run blast.
Schwarz and the No. 1 Gators then went 
on to defeat the Eagles 12-4 at McKethan Stadium, as UF improved to 4-0 on the sea-son.
"I knew it was gonna come, but I'm glad 
I got it out now," Schwarz said of his home run. "After the first one, hopefully there's more to come."
But Schwarz wasn’t the only UF player 
who had a successful hitting night. Junior Peter Alonso led UF with four RBIs, includ-ing two doubles, while sophomore Dalton Guthrie, junior Buddy Reed and freshman 
Deacon Liput each went 2-for-3.
To start the scoring, Eastern Michigan 
wasted no time in the first inning.
On Dane Dunning’s second pitch of the 
night, EMU’s Marquise Gill ripped a dou-
ble down the left-field line. Soon after, Gill scored on a grounder to second.
But the Gators retaliated in the bottom 
half.
After loading the bases, Florida tied the 
game up 1-1 when Reed scored on a wild Schwarz homers in UF's win over Eastern MichiganSEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14UF now has three home lossespened.
"It was real deflating," Devin 
Robinson said of the buzzer-beater 
to end the first half. "Everybody was 
in the locker room upset, but we just had to keep rallying. It was a bogus play. It happens in basketball, but I 
mean we just had to keep rolling."
Center Damian Jones scored a 
career-high 27 points for Vanderbilt 
on 12-of-13 shooting and grabbed seven rebounds in the Commodores’ 
win. Jeff Roberson scored 18 and had 
10 rebounds while Baldwin IV and Fisher-Davis had 13 and 12 points, respectively.
Vanderbilt shot 50 percent (10-20) 
from three-point range, the second-highest percentage given up by Flor-ida since Kentucky shot 60 percent against the Gators on Feb. 6.
Florida’s offense was character-
istically flat, shooting just 40 per-cent from the field and 26.3 percent from beyond the arc. The Gators’ top two scorers this season, Dorian 
Finney-Smith and KeVaughn Allen, 
combined to shoot 1-of-14 from the field for 10 points. Justin Leon led the team with 15 points off the bench, and John Egbunu added 14 along with four rebounds.
As March draws closer, Florida’s 
offense continues to underperform. 
The Gators have been able to rely on 
tough defense to keep games close this season, but with just three regu-lar season games remaining, Tuesday night’s performance was a bad pre-
cursor to Florida’s postseason hopes.
"We’ve just got to go back to the 
drawing board and just come out at 
LSU ready to play," Robinson said. 
"Come out hard from the jump, and 
we didn’t do that tonight."
  @alexmaminakis  
 amaminakis@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Scott Moss pitches during Florida's 12-3 win against Florida 
Gulf Coast on Sunday at McKethan Stadium.
So when he got to toe the 
rubber on Sunday, Moss must have let out a sigh of relief that his time had finally come. 
And now, he has pitching 
numbers to go along with his injury.
The left-hander faced four 
FGCU hitters and struck out the first two of them to clinch UF’s season-opening sweep on Friday.And today, O’Sullivan will 
reward him for his determina-tion to get back to the mound.
"I’m pleased," O’Sullivan 
said. "It’s been a long road for him, and he’s going to end on a really positive note here at Flor-ida, and I’m really really excited about the direction he’s going and the fact that he’s going to get back out there."
@LFTorresIII
ltorres@alligator.org Moss struck out two 
hitters in the win
Florida shot 26.3 percent from three
Ian Cohen / Alligator Staff
Florida forward Devin Robinson attempts a layup during UF's 87-74 loss to Vanderbilt on Tuesday in 
the O'Connell Center.pitch.
After Jeremy Vasquez was hit by a 
pitch, Alonso drove in two with a double 
in the right-center gap.
Liput followed with a double to plate 
Alonso and gave UF a 4-1 lead.
Alonso and the Gators were back at it 
again in the third inning, scoring five runs.
Alonso smoked another two-run dou-
ble, this time by the third baseman, to 
take a 6-1 lead. The Tampa native finished the game 2-for-3 with two runs scored.
"It's a good night," Alonso said. "I'll 
take it."
Freshman Danny Reyes plated UF’s 
seventh run on a fielder’s choice ground 
ball to first.
Florida tacked on two more after Dal-
ton Guthrie poked a single to right field.
The Eagles scored again in the fourth 
when Dunning walked in a run.
But Dunning followed that with a 
strikeout and Brady Singer, who replaced 
Dunning, struck out the next batter to end the threat.Dunning was pulled after 3.2 innings.
The junior allowed two runs on four 
hits and struck out four in his first start of 
the season.UF coach Kevin O'Sullivan said despite 
the bases-loaded walk, he was pleased with Dunning's performance.
"He's been throwing the ball really good for us," he said. "I would anticipate 
this being his first start (and) that he'll be 
better the next time out."
In the bottom half of the fourth, Florida 
answered back.
Schwarz cranked his first homer of the 
season to left field — a two-run shot to put the Gators ahead 11-2. The Palm Beach Gardens native finished 2-for-2 with two RBIs and three runs scored.
In the sixth, UF tacked on another run.Reed slapped a triple off the wall to 
lead off the inning and soon after scored on Mark Kolozsvary’s groundout to the shortstop.
Eastern Michigan added runs in the 
eighth and ninth innings, but it wasn’t enough to overcome the deficit.
Next, Florida will face with Eastern 
Michigan again tonight in Lakeland at 7 p.m.
After dealing with arm injuries over the 
past two years, sophomore Scott Moss will take the mound for the Gators.
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 13Dunning allowed two runs, four hits and struck out two batters
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
JJ Schwarz readies for a pitch during Florida's 8-8 win over Florida Gulf Coast on 
Saturday at McKethan Stadium.
HOOPS,  from pg 13
MOSS,  from pg 13WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
by Alfredo Morales
Sports Writer
After seeing their seven-shot lead dis-
solve, one stroke made the difference for 
No. 11 Florida in Tuesday’s final round of 
the Allstate Sugar Bowl Intercollegiate Golf 
Championship.
But despite a late run by No. 13 Oklaho-
ma State, the Gators were able to hold on 
and finish the day the way it started: in first 
place. 
“I’m so grateful for the opportunity we 
had today. It was a great learning experi-ence. We slept on the lead, we waited out a 
rain delay, we played in really tough condi-
tions, and so many other factors that made this team stronger and better,” coach Emily Glaser said in a release. 
“To come home with a win is an added 
bonus. The girls fought hard all day, and I’m proud of the way they represented the Gators.”
The tough weather conditions left their 
mark on the leaderboard. Matching her sec-ond round score of 2 under par, junior Karo-lina Vlckova climbed to the top of Florida’s lineup with a collegiate-best final score of 4 
under par. By the day’s end, Vlckova had 
climbed four spots to secure a tie for third place — good for her fourth top-10 finish of the season. The junior finished one stroke behind Michigan State’s Sarah Burnham and LSU’s Sydney Cavin.
“I played really well the whole week. 
The key word for me was patience for this tournament. This course can be a little tricky and sometimes can play really hard, but I’m happy with the way I finished,” Vlckova said in a release. “I’m really happy for the team and that we’re bring(ing) the trophy home, 
we’re all happy.”
However, aside from Vlckova, the rest of 
the Gators’ lineup failed to improve. 
Marred by a Round 3 score of 3 over par, 
junior Maria Torres found herself out of the 
top 10. Torres — who shot an impressive 3 under par on Day 1  and 1 under par on Day 2 — fell from third place to 11th on the final day of the tournament. It was Torres’ third under-par tournament finish this season.
In the middle of the pack for UF, sopho-
more Taylor Tomlinson and junior Kelly Grassel both fell three spots in the last round. Tomlinson stayed relatively consis-
tent as she finished the tournament with a 
final score of even par due to her 1 over par third round. 
Grassel, however, did not show the same 
consistency. The junior’s score fluctuated 
from a 3 over par in Round 1 to a three un-
der par in Round 2 and back to a 3 over par in Round 3 for an overall score of 3 over par.
UF’s final competitor, freshman Sam 
Wagner, showed similar consistency to Tom-linson. But her results were less desirable, as she shot 3 over par on each day of the tour-nament. Initially dropping from 38th to 48th between the first and second rounds, Wag-
ner’s final score of 9 over par was enough to 
keep her in a tie for 48th.
Overall, Florida finished above five top-
25 teams and took home its third team title 
of the season.
The Gators’ next match will be at home in 
the SunTrust Gator Invitational on March 5.
@amorales_95
amorales@alligator.orgFlorida women’s golf takes first place in tournament
Alligator File Photo
Karolina Vlckova (right) celebrates ith coach Emily Glaser during the 2015 SunTrust 
Gator Invitational at UF’s Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
WOMEN’S TENNIS
FLORIDA WILL PLAY 
NO. 16 STANFORD AND 
NO. 1 CALIFORNIA.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Stanford has always been a chal-
lenging opponent for the Florida 
women’s tennis team, especially for the players who have been on the team the longest.
Two years ago, the Cardinal 
swept the Gators in a game that current-senior Brianna Morgan and current-juniors Kourtney Keegan and Belinda Woolcock hoped to forget.
And last season, the game was 
a nail-biter that came down to the last match. 
The hero for the Gators was 
Morgan, who took down Stanford’s Caroline Doyle in three sets 6-1, 2-6, 6-3 to give the Gators a 4-3 win. 
This season’s game against No. 
16 Stanford caps off a weekend Cal-ifornia road trip that also includes a trip to Berkeley to face No. 1 Cali-fornia.
Earlier this season, California 
beat Southern California 6-1 while the Gators took down USC 7-0.
“We certainly will find out pret-
ty quickly this weekend how good we are, if there are any holes in our lineup, and really where we stand nationally,” coach Roland Thorn-qvist said. 
But Thornqvist has faith in his 
team. He views this road trip as a test. 
As Thornqvist has stated, with 
the skills the Gators have shown in both doubles and singles and their dominance early on, they will be a tough team to beat.
Three doubles pairings are 
ranked with sophomore Brooke Austin and Keegan at No. 7, sopho-more Josie Kuhlman and Woolcock at No. 19, and Kuhlman and Mor-gan at No. 56. 
Three Gators also have three 
players in the top-50 individual rankings with No. 6 Woolcock, No. 12 Austin and No. 30 Keegan. 
Austin recently won Southeast-
ern Conference Player of the Week after she defeated two doubles and singles opponents, including Clem-son’s No. 13 Joana Eidukonyte. 
“She’s off to a great start. She did 
a lot of work at home over Christ-mas, and you can see the body work come to fruition,” Thornqvist 
said. 
“I think she’s playing the best 
tennis since she’s been at Florida. 
Her serves are better, she’s moving laterally better.”
By the time Florida takes the 
court against California, nearly two weeks will have elapsed since its last game. 
Therefore, how the Gators per-
form in practice this week will be crucial. 
The team will be doing intra-
squad doubles and singles matches to prepare for the challenge this weekend.
Florida plays California on Fri-
day at 3 p.m. in Berkeley. 
The Gators will then take on 
Stanford Sunday at 3 p.m. in Stan-ford.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgGators to face pair of tough opponents in weekend road trip
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF doubles tandem Brianna Morgan and Anna Danilina celebrate during Florida’s win over USF on Jan. 
27 at the Ring T ennis Complex.
The field featured five top-25 teams16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016
THE JUNIOR LEADS UF WITH 
11 POINTS PER GAME.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Ronni Williams is no stranger to being 
the center of attention. 
She was a McDonald’s All-American 
coming out of Port Orange’s Atlantic 
High. 
She was also named the Daytona Beach 
News-Journal’s Girl’s Basketball Player 
of the Year all four years of high school 
and was ranked as the No. 13-overall re-cruit in the 2013 class by ESPN. 
When she got to Florida, the 6-foot 
forward made an immediate impact by 
being the team’s second-best rebounder 
and fifth-leading scorer as a freshman.
As a sophomore, she stepped up even 
more, leading the team in scoring with 
10.3 points per game. 
And now, as a junior, Williams once 
again leads the team in scoring, now with 
11.0 points per game. 
According to coach Amanda Butler, 
her offensive output this year and in years’ past is the direct result of her dom-inance in another statistical category. 
“I think her rebounding is really what 
gives her energy,” she said.
While Florida is a team that has re-
lied on its depth to win games, Williams manages to stand out in games when that depth fails.
In Sunday’s loss to Georgia, for ex-
ample, Williams thrived by scoring 18 points while the rest of UF’s normally potent offense struggled. 
Butler credits her commitment to get-
ting better at moving without the ball in addition to her rebounding.
“That’s a part of her game that’s really 
starting to develop, and it’s really impor-
tant,” Butler said. 
But while Williams can take over a 
game with stat lines, she doesn’t have 
the star-power to single-handedly lead 
the Gators to wins. Florida just isn’t built 
like that. 
So, despite Williams’ recent success, 
it’s been concerning for Butler to see her offense struggle. 
Against Georgia, a game in which UF 
scored close to 17 points below its sea-son average, she pointed to the Bulldogs’ 
defense as the reason behind the poor of-
fensive showing. 
“They’re the best defensive team in 
our league,” she said. 
“They’ve had a lot of team’s number 
with their defense and they’re just very good at it.”
But in addition to crediting Georgia’s 
talented defense, Butler also felt UF 
needs to improve in certain areas.
“We took the bait a couple of times 
and didn’t knock down big shots. We 
didn’t shoot the ball well either,” she 
said. 
“I think we took terrible threes, and 
we didn’t shoot the ball like I know we’re 
capable of.”
As for how to address that problem, 
Butler didn’t feel the answer was more reps or just waiting for some shots to fall. Instead, she believes it’s all mental.
“I don’t really believe too much in 
good luck or bad luck,” Butler said. 
“Confidence is either your most pow-
erful weapon or it can be something that brings you to your knees if yours is shak-en.”
Florida is currently on a stretch in 
which it’s lost three of its last four games. 
In those losses, UF has had at least 
three double-figure scorers only once.
In the lone win over that span, the 
Gators had five players put up double digits.
So, as Butler has said all season, bal-
ance is key with this team. 
And moving forward into Florida’s 
road game against LSU on Thursday, she is confident her team can get back to its balanced identity. 
“That’s what I expected our team to 
do is to really believe in who they are in-dividually and collectively,” Butler said. 
“And get ready for a really, really con-
fident LSU team on their home court.” 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgWilliams leading struggling Florida offense into final stretch
Scott Parker / Alligator
Ronnie Williams jumps during the tipoff of Florida’s 85-79 win over Kentucky on Jan. 
31 in the O’Connell Center.
