We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 15 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016
Florida’s oﬀ  ense shines in win
See the photo story, pg.14
UF student fundraising for hospice home
He hopes to raise $20 million, pg. 3
Design President Fuchs’ holiday card
The UF president and his wife are hosting a contest, pg. 4The 9/11 attacks 15 years later
See excerpts from our archives, pg. 8-9
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
BUYING BOWS IN ORANGE AND BLUE
Sisters Emily Helter, a 21-year-old UF marketing senior, and Lindsey Helter, a 19-year-old UF tourism, 
event and recreation management junior, sell their handmade Gator bows on the corner of University Avenue and Northwest 17th Street on Saturday afternoon. Emily said it is “kind of like tailgating, but you’re making money. ” The sisters have sold more than 1,500 bows in the last three years, they said.
By Caitlin Ostroff and   
Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writers
Iman Zawahry doesn’t like to 
leave her house on Sept. 11.
When the twin towers fell in 2001, the then Islam on Campus 
president watched news reports on 
television. Her ﬁ  rst response was 
shock and horror. Then she heard the suspected terrorists were claimed to be Muslim.
The 20-year-old went into sur-
vival mode, she said. “I wish that I was able to grieve 
like every other American, but I couldn’t, because I was put on the defensive,” Zawahry said.
Fifteen years after the attacks 
that killed nearly 3,000 people, the changes in UF and Gainesville are 
undeniable, seen in the students and 
faculty who watched them unfold and the ofﬁ  cers who protect the city.
Zawahry, then a religion major, went to the Reitz Union after UF canceled classes that afternoon to meet with her board about what to do, the now 35-year-old UF adjunct professor said. The campus was a ghost town.
The organization condemned the 
attack and held an interfaith walk, Zawahry said. In the weeks that followed, other groups like UF Hil-lel reached out, offering assistance. UF’s Student Government upped the group’s funding.
In the aftermath of the attacks, 
UF came together.
“From a tragic event, a beautiful 
thing happened from unifying the community,” she said. “From that 
point on, people were reaching out 
to us to learn more about us.”
Still, she tries to stay inside, as 
In Gainesville, ripples of 9/11 attacks still felt 15 years later
The memories haven’t fadedUSERS CAN REFILL 
METERS VIA THE APP
By Amanda Nardi
Alligator Contributing Writer
Starting today, UF students 
and visitors can monitor and pay for on-campus parking from their phones.
The PassportParking Mobile 
Pay app, which extends its utili-ties to UF today, allows students to pay for metered parking and extend parking time from their phones, said Emily Wilson, a marketing specialist of the Pass-port company. The feature is available at the Reitz Union park-ing garage and Bledsoe Drive 
parking lot.
“The purpose of the app is to 
give students more options for 
parking,” Wilson said. “They are busy eating, studying and doing things, so when they’re out, this app makes the entire parking ex-perience easier.”The app’s countdown timer 
shows when a payment is going to expire and sends notiﬁ  cations 
directly to their phone, she said. 
Students can also check their parking history. 
Erik Higginbotham, a UF com-
puter engineering junior, said he thinks the app will help keep students from going over parking time.
“One time I left my car sitting 
in a parking garage overnight and forgot because my friend brought me home the night before,” the 20-year-old said. “I was sitting illegally in a paid parking space and had no idea, so this new app reminding me to pay for more time would have been helpful.”
Wilson said there is a possibil-
ity it will expand to other areas and maybe off-campus parking in the future.
“This app will hopefully make 
the parking experience more en-joyable and give students more ﬂ  exibility,” she said.  Parking app oﬀ  ers new 
pay method on campusBy Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
There was no way Antonio Callaway 
would drop this ball.
Not after he failed to connect with his 
quarterback on a similar play last week, not 
after hearing his coach criticize Florida’s of-fense after its season opener, and not after an offseason full of doubt and distraction stemming from Callaway’s suspension in the spring.
Callaway caught the 78-yard pass, rac-
ing to the endzone to add six points to the Gators’ 45-7 demolition of Kentucky Satur-day. 
“That guy is blazing fast,” quarterback 
Luke Del Rio said.
The Gators found their offense on Satur-
day and set several records in the process.They earned their 30th straight win over 
Kentucky and scored 45 points for the ﬁ  rst time since its 2015 opener, the most points scored in an SEC game under coach Jim McElwain. There wasn’t a sack on their quarterback for the ﬁ  rst time since Sept. 5 of last year.
“This machine was well-oiled today,” de-
fensive lineman Caleb Brantley said.
After a near-lifeless ﬁ  rst half against a mediocre Massachusetts team last week, Florida looked almost unrecognizable on both sides of the ball against Kentucky this week. 
By the end of the ﬁ  rst quarter, the Gators 
had more than twice the amount of yards they had in the ﬁ  rst quarter against UMass (104 to 209). 
By the game’s end, Florida’s defense had 
 SETTING A NEW STANDARD
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14FLORIDA 45
  KENTUCKY  7
SEE 9/11,  PAGE 9Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  91° LOW  73°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Improve your public-speaking 
skills
Talking Gators Toastmasters meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in UF’s Entomology Building, 
located at 1881 Natural Area 
Drive, Room 1031. For details, go to talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page. “The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and positive learn-ing experience in which mem-bers are empowered to develop 
communication and leadership 
skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth.”
Campus Juice
Trying to get those 10 servings of fruits and vegetables a day? Campus Juice, UF’s healthy life-style club, is hosting a juicing workshop. Come out to learn how to juice, create different recipes and the health benefits 
of juicing. There will be juice for 
everyone, and it is a great op-portunity to learn what Campus Juice is all about. Join Campus Juice for a healthy potluck Tuesday in Little Hall, Room 0205, at 7:30 p.m.
RUB Entertainment’s Glow-in-
the-Dark ZumbaJoin Reitz Union Board Entertainment for a free Zumba class — with a twist. On Wednesday at 6:15 p.m., come out to the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom for special glow-in-the-dark Zumba. Participants will receive glow-in-the-dark 
bracelets and necklaces. Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, David Hoffman, Amanda     
  Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Michael Smith  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 15
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
HE LAUNCHED THE 
UF CHAPTER OF 
LADYBUG HOUSE
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Ryan Murphy and his aunt had 
a bond that spanned across the 
country. 
The 19-year-old didn’t see Trish 
Murphy often, but her job working 
in a hospital and taking care of sick 
children was something he always 
admired. 
“She would give her life for 
anyone,” he said.  
But when she died last year 
after suffering from rheumatoid arthritis, a chronic inﬂ  ammatory 
disorder affecting the joints, the now-UF biomedical engineering sophomore struggled to ﬁ  nd a way 
to honor her memory. 
His parents told him about La-
dybug House, a nonproﬁ  t organi-zation that raises money to build 
hospice homes for children. Trish 
Murphy was heavily involved with 
the organization. 
Ryan Murphy reached out to 
Suzanne Gwynn, the founder of Ladybug House and a former 
roommate of his aunt. He wanted 
to help in any way he could, he 
told her. 
After launching the ﬁ  rst nation-al chapter of the organization at 
UF in February 2016, he’s raising 
money to help build the ﬁ  rst Lady-bug House in Seattle. As of press 
time, he’s raised more than $1,200. 
“I’ve always wanted to help 
people in some way, and I feel like 
this is my calling,” he said. 
Gwynn, 57, who lives in Seat-
tle, hopes to raise $20 million to build and operate the ﬁ  rst house, which will be 25,000 square feet with 12 suites. The house will al-low children with life-threatening illnesses to stay in a comforting environment near a hospital, she said. The United Kingdom has 54 similar houses, but there are only 
two in the U.S., she said.  
Trish Murphy supported 
Gwynn more than anyone after 
she established Ladybug House, 
Gwynn said. Gwynn would call 
her in tears, and she would help 
her cope with the stress of starting 
the organization while balancing 
her job as a nurse. 
“She was my biggest cheer-
leader,” she said. Together, they 
worked the night shift at Seattle 
Children’s Hospital, helping young 
patients through their hardest days. 
Ryan Murphy remembers how 
his aunt radiated joy despite her 
demanding job.  
“(Trish) was around these types 
of kids who had these illnesses,” 
he said. “She treated them like her 
own children.” 
Gwynn and Ryan Murphy have 
never met, but their connection through Trish Murphy is helping 
the organization expand across the 
country.
After all his work, Gwynn said 
her friend would be proud of her nephew. 
“It’s people like Ryan,” she 
said. “Those are the people who 
are going to make a difference in 
the world. The ones who lead with 
their hearts.”
Ryan Murphy’s fundraising 
goal of $10,000 will give him and 
the about 50 members of the UF 
chapter a goal to strive for, he said. 
He plans to have his friends at ﬁ  ve other universities start more chap-ters. After graduating, he said he 
wants to continue working with 
the organization to help as many 
kids as possible. 
“I hope to grow this across the 
whole country,” Ryan Murphy 
said. “To think that these kids are 
given a date on their life, it really 
puts things in perspective for me.” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org   UF student fundraises for hospice home
Courtesy to the Alligator
Ryan Murphy, now 19, and his Aunt Trish Murphy, pose for a picture. Ryan started the UF chapter of Ladybug House in memory of his aunt, who died last year, and is currently raising money for the organization. 
“I’ve always wanted to help 
people in some way, and I feel 
like this is my calling.” 
Ryan Murphy
Founder, UF Ladybug House Chapter4   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016
PROCEEDS FROM THE 
5K WALK BENEFITED A 
LOCAL CRISIS CENTER.
By Christy Piña 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Oluchi Ojinnaka-Taylor, 36, ran in 
memory of her daughter Saturday.
As a part of World Suicide Prevention 
Day, the former mental health counselor 
joined about 100 others in a 5-kilometer run to benefit the Alachua County Crisis Center.
On Jan. 11, Ojinnaka-Taylor’s daugh-
ter Tiyana committed suicide at the age of 17. Wearing a shirt embellished with Tiyana’s photo, Ojinnaka-Taylor said she was still coming to grips with her death.
“It was hard for me because you 
would’ve thought that I would’ve been able to see the signs and prevent it,” she said. “That’s been the hardest process for 
me, trying to come face-to-face with that, 
because I feel like I failed her.”
Hosted by Alachua County’s Friends of 
The Crisis Center, the run took place at Cofrin Nature Park, located at 4810 NW 
Eighth Ave.
Sophia Hampton, who helped organize 
the run, said she hoped it would serve as 
a way to call attention to mental-health 
issues and highlight resources available 
throughout the county.“We’re doing it to raise awareness, to 
let people know that you’re not alone out there,” Hampton said.
Participants paid a $30 registration fee, 
which will be donated to Alachua Coun-ty’s Friends of The Crisis Center and the Alachua County Crisis Center, Hampton said.
She said she decided to hold the run at 
Cofrin Nature Park because there is a Sur-vivors of Suicide Memory Garden there.
The garden is dedicated to people who 
have lost a loved one through suicide, like 
Ojinnaka-Taylor. Framed sheets of paper 
offer a list of coping mechanisms and words of encouragement.
“It’s a very powerful place,” Hampton 
said.
As Ojinnaka-Taylor walked through 
the park Saturday with family and friends, a phrase printed on their shirts stood as a symbol of the run: “You’re Not Alone.”
She said mental illness is difficult to 
notice, even for professionals. If someone does not open up about his or her strug-gles, it’s nearly impossible to treat. 
“That’s the thing with Tiyana,” Ojin-
naka-Taylor said. “All (anybody) knew about her smile was that she was so nice and helpful, and then they didn’t know her other side. I wish she would’ve told 
someone — we would’ve been there for 
her.”GNV runs to prevent suicide
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
SEE YOU LATER, ALLIGATOR
A truck stands in front of the remains of the former Alligator building on 1105 W. University Ave. on 
Sunday afternoon after the beginning of the demolition during the weekend.
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
A conservative UF group an-
nounced plans Friday to invite 
journalist Milo Yiannopoulos to speak on campus in October.
Keira Hornyak, the presi-
dent of Turning Point USA at UF, said Yiannopoulos, a technology editor and writer 
for conservative news web-
site Breitbart News, contacted 
the group about a month ago to add UF to his cross-country “Dangerous Faggot” speaking tour.
Hornyak said she hoped to 
hold the event Oct. 4 but could not clarify its location. The group is currently undergoing a registration process to reserve a space on campus for the event, she said.
Hosting Yiannopoulos, who 
is gay, would hopefully spark 
meaningful dialogue among 
students, Hornyak said.
“I want to show the world 
that UF is civil and we can act 
like adults,” she said.
Paul Bernard and Steve 
Orlando, UF spokesmen, said they are not aware of Turning Point’s plans to host the jour-nalist.
As of press time, Yian-
nopoulos could not be reached for comment, and UF is not 
on the list of nearly 50 tour stops 
available on his official website.
He is 
scheduled to visit four 
Florida universities later this month including Florida State University, the University of South Florida and the Univer-sity of Central Florida, accord-ing to his website.
Other notable tour stops in-
clude Dartmouth College, Co-
lumbia University and Stanford 
University.
Yiannopoulos has been the 
subject of controversy — his 
critics accuse him of promot-
ing racism, and his supporters defend his right to free speech.
In July, Twitter permanent-
ly suspended his account from 
its social media site.
Ben Duong, a UF microbiol-
ogy and political science senior, 
said if Yiannopoulos were to 
visit campus, his speech would likely be met by protesters.
The 21-year-old said Yian-
nopoulos has publicly sup-
ported sexism, racism and xe-nophobia.
He also said the journalist 
is a proponent of the alt-right movement, which Duong de-scribed as a modern rebranding of white nationalism.
“He’s definitely not above 
causing controversy,” Duong said. “In fact, I know him to usually embrace the contro-versy.”
Noah MacGinnis, a UF po-
litical science sophomore, said both critics and supporters of Yiannopoulos would benefit from hearing him speak. Doing so would help them understand 
each other, he said.
The 19-year-old said al-
though he does not align him-self with Yiannopoulos’ social 
views, he has the right to say 
what he wants — even if some may disagree with his message.
“I definitely share his values 
for sharing what he feels and 
expressing his First-Amend-
ment rights,” MacGinnis said.
@jawosmond
Josmond@alligator.orgClub invites Yiannopoulos to UF
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
A former Disney Channel and Freeform 
actress is coming to UF on Friday.
Hayley Kiyoko, an actress, singer and 
songwriter, will be performing in the Re -
itz Union Grand Ballroom as part of Ga -
torNights, said Ashley Fosse, a bands 
committee director for Reitz Union Board Entertainment. Doors will open at 9 p.m., and Kiyoko will perform at 10 p.m. She is being paid $10,000 for the one-
hour show, which is free for students, Fosse said. The organization held a poll, asking students which artists they would like to see at UF. 
“She’s an up-and-coming artist,” the 
20-year-old UF marketing junior said. “She’s going to be a recognizable name.”
Fosse said Kiyoko’s popular songs 
“Girls Like Girls” and “Gravel to Tempo” are proof that the star is becoming better known for her skills as a singer-songwriter. “She’s making a name for herself out
-
side of any past projects that she’s done,” she said.  Kiyoko previously acted in “Lemonade Mouth,” a Disney Channel movie, and provided voice-over for a Car
-
toon Network show. 
Rung Chen, 19, said she heard about 
Kiyoko’s upcoming performance through social media. The UF behavioral and cog
-
nitive neuroscience junior said she can’t wait to see Kiyoko live. 
“It always amazes me that they could afford all the stuff going on at Gator
-
Nights,” Chen said. “They do a good job of putting up fun events.”
Chen said she’s familiar with Kiyoko’s 
work as an actress on Disney Channel, but she’s excited to see Kiyoko as more than 
just a TV personality. “I want to see what 
she’s like offscreen,” she said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgFormer Disney Channel actress to perform Friday at UF
THE UF PRESIDENT AND 
HIS WIFE ARE HOSTING A 
DESIGN CONTEST. 
By Marianna Faiello
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs and 
his wife are asking students to 
help design their holiday card. 
He and his wife, Linda, are 
holding the President’s Holiday Greeting Card Contest for the first time. Students can submit one original piece of artwork for the contest, which began Sept. 6 and will run through Oct. 3, Fuchs said. 
Last year, Fuchs and his wife 
sent out an e-card video to the UF community, he said. For this year’s e-card, they wanted to send out something made by stu-dents.
“My wife and I are looking for something festive and celebra-tory — and something in some 
sense evocative of UF and not 
necessarily an image, but who 
we are as a school,” Fuchs said. 
The winner will receive $500 
and the runner-up will receive 
$250, he said. The money will 
come from the Fuchs’ personal 
funds. Submissions can be sent to president-card@ufl.edu. 
Winners will be announced 
Nov. 1 on the president’s web-site and official social media ac-counts.
Catherine Munn, an 18-year-
old UF art freshman, said, while 
she isn’t sure she’ll enter, it’s a 
great opportunity for students to showcase their work.   
“I think it sounds like a very 
cute idea,” she said. “It sounds 
like something that graphic de-
sign majors or other digital art-ists would be interested in.”Design Fuchs’ holiday cardYiannopoulos
 
Kiyoko
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
The UF Student Govern-
ment Judiciary Committee 
failed to allow a bill reforming how political parties spend money during elections to be heard by Student Senate. 
Access Party President Mi-
chael Russel and Access Trea-
surer Edward Zambrano, who 
helped write the bill, wanted 
to place limits on how much money parties can spend 
based on the number of can-didates for each party. 
Judiciary Committee Chair-
man Ben Weiner argued plac-
ing limits on spending could 
violate the First Amendment.“If you’re limiting the 
spending, then you’re limiting 
speech,” he said. “Then we 
get into tricky areas.”
The failed bill proposed to 
limit candidates for Student 
Body president and vice presi-dent to spending $1,500 each, 
candidates for treasurer to 
spending $750 and candidates for senator or other ofﬁ  ces to spending $150. Although no restrictions were placed on campaign donations in the 
proposed bill, the amount of money parties could spend 
correlated to how many can-
didates they had. 
Russel argued other 
schools in the Southeastern 
Conference have limits on party spending. 
“We’re just trying to limit 
it so students have an easier 
time getting into Student Gov-
ernment,” Russel said. 
Although the bill failed, he 
said the meeting was produc-
tive. 
When asked if other 
schools with spending limits violate the U.S. Constitution, members of the Judiciary Committee said yes, but only if the schools had provisions stating that their student gov-
ernment follows federal con-
stitutions, as UF’s government 
does.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org   Bill to limit SG spending fails
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
On the 45th anniversary 
of New York’s Attica Correc-
tional Facility riots, a group of 
Gainesville residents protested 
inmate mistreatment.
Waving signs outside of the 
Wal-Mart on Waldo Road, about 
35 people attended a rally held 
Friday evening by the Gainesville 
chapter of the Industrial Workers 
of the World.
Protesters denounced prison 
slavery, which they described as the corporate use of prisoner 
labor with little or no compensa-
tion. They also spoke out about poor living conditions in prisons.
The rally, held in conjunction 
with prison strikes across the country, took place at Wal-Mart because protesters said the com-pany beneﬁ  ts from prison labor.
Gainesville resident Logan 
Glitterbomb, 26, said she attend-ed the rally to show solidarity with prisoners and to commemo-
rate the 1971 riots, when inmates 
of a New York prison held guards hostage, pushing for reforms like improved health care.
Joined by other members 
of the Gainesville IWW, Glit-
terbomb held a sign that read 
“Working class solidarity against 
prison slavery.”
She said the average person 
may be unaware of what goes 
on inside prisons, which she said motivated her to lend them her 
voice.
“We’re here because (the in-
mates) asked us to be,” Glitter-bomb said. “It is a literal case of 
slavery.”
Joseph Spillane, a UF associ-ate professor in the Department of History, said prison conditions 
have not improved signiﬁ  cantly 
since the Attica riots.
“It did not change much for 
the better,” Spillane said.
Like the inmates who began 
protesting Friday, Spillane said one of the key issues of the Attica 
riots was the use of prison labor 
without proper compensation.
During the uprising, the pris-
oners compiled a list of grievanc-
es, which included inadequate 
health care and prison guard bru-
tality. Following the riot, which 
left more than 40 people dead, prison authorities complied with 
some of the prisoners’ demands, 
but adequate reforms were never enacted, Spillane said.
“It is very difﬁ  cult — almost 
impossible — for inmates to have their voices heard,” he said.  GNV residents protest prison laborFor the second time in a week, po-
lice charged a man Friday for breaking a 
window at Fat Daddy’s.
At about 2 a.m. Friday, Gainesville 
Police arrested Jesse Lindsey Roberts III, 
a 23-year-old Lake City resident, after he 
tried to get into ﬁ  ghts with patrons of the Midtown bar, according to a police report.
As bar security ofﬁ  cers removed Rob-
erts from Fat Daddy’s, located at 1702 W. University Ave., he struck one of them before being forced outside, ac-cording to the report.
One bouncer, who declined to give 
his name, said Roberts had ripped up his own shirt before leaving.
“(Roberts) was deﬁ  nitely on some 
kind of drugs or something,” he said.
When a bouncer locked the bar's doors behind him, Roberts threatened to kill him, according to the report. A bouncer later told police he feared Roberts would follow through with his threat.
Roberts broke the frame of the bar’s 
back door and then punched its glass window, breaking it, according to the report. He ran westbound on West Uni-versity Avenue as a bouncer chased him.
University Police then detained Rob-
erts before GPD arrested him, according to the report.  
Police charged Roberts with simple 
assault and battery. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released Friday on his own recog-nizance.
Roberts could not be immediately 
reached for comment. GPD: Second man breaks window of Fat Daddy's
A county detention deputy was 
charged Thursday for sexually assault-ing a minor.
Deputies with the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrested Donald Adam 
Dixon, 34, on a warrant for sexually as-
saulting a person between the ages of 12 and 18 and for using a computer to seduce, solicit or lure a child, accord-ing to an ACSO press release.
Dixon had worked at the ACSO’s 
Department of the Jail since June 1, 2015, according to the release.
ACSO Sheriff Sadie Darnell suspend-
ed Dixon after the allegations came out last week. He was ﬁ  red following the arrest, according to the release.
On Friday, Judge Robert E. 
Roundtree Jr. issued a standing no-contact order against Dixon, which 
prevents him from going within 500 
feet of the child’s home or car, accord-ing to Alachua County Court records. Additionally, Dixon cannot communi-cate or have physical contact with the person.
Following a question posted to the 
ACSO Facebook page Friday asking why a photo of Dixon has not been re-leased, the Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce responded by citing Section 119 of Florida Statute. The section states photos of active and former law enforcement ofﬁ  cers are 
exempt from public disclosure without 
the individual’s consent.
Authorities took Dixon to the Alach-
ua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $350,000 bond. Additional charges are pending as the investigation continues, according to the release. 
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  ACSO detention deputy charged with sexual assault· CAUTION · CAUTION · CAUTION · CAUTION  ·CRIME REPORT
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff WriterThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Please stay in your lane and respect pedestrians
On your left!
This is the typical greeting I get as 
a bicyclist whooshes past me while I 
walk to the bus stop, the bicyclist, of course, not making use of the perfectly 
good bike lane just a few feet away.
Bicyclists yelling can actually be quite jarring 
— sometimes I stop in my tracks while other 
times I look around trying to figure out what is 
going on. Is it a bicycle or is there some sort of object hurtling toward me that I need to be aware of?
In contrast to most places where bicycles are gener-
ally ignored, Gainesville is typically considered a bicycle-friendly city: There are bicycle racks and paths, and cars are generally aware of bicyclists. 
It’s not just off campus that this can be an issue. Simi-
larly, walking through Turlington Plaza or the North Lawn 
can be hazardous when bicyclists don’t even stop to ac-
knowledge pedestrians are there, too. Looking both ways before crossing should be for roads, not sidewalks. 
I can’t count the number of times a bicyclist has almost 
run into me and then simply steered around me or just 
kept going, forcing me to step back. Bicycles going 15 mph 
or more could seriously injure a pedestrian if a collision happened. 
It’s not my job, nor is it any other pedestrian’s, to nav-
igate around bicyclists while using the sidewalk. When bicyclists are on the sidewalk, they have to accommodate pedestrians, either by slowing down or dismounting alto-gether if they cannot handle steering at a slower speed. While there are no bicycle lanes in the main parts of cam-pus, the 25-mph speed limit is enough to allow the bicyclists to join the cars. And if bicyclists aren’t comfortable joining the cars and can’t 
seem to be mindful of the pedestrians in their 
paths, then they can just walk on the sidewalk like the rest of us. 
On a street where the speed limit is at least 
35 mph, it makes sense to use the sidewalk. But this isn’t the case on UF’s campus, where it is safe enough for bicycles to take up a whole car 
lane of the road. If bicyclists choose to go through the most crowded areas of campus rather than going around 
like a car, they need to be mindful of the people who are 
walking, who may not be able to get out of the way fast enough.
It’s not just annoying bicyclists who misuse pathways 
they shouldn’t be on: Joggers do it, too. Yeah, you heard me. They use roads and bike lanes to jog when they should be using the sidewalk instead. I get that it may be a better surface to jog on, but it’s safer for everyone if joggers stick to the sidewalk. 
Every so often as I drive to my afternoon class, I en-
counter a stray jogger who thinks it’s a good idea to jog at 4.5 mph in the middle of the road. The only problem is that cars don’t have any other place to go. Joggers do. 
This is one of those rare cases in which the rules were 
created for a good reason — to keep everyone safe. The sidewalk is for walking and jogging, and bicyclists belong in their bike lanes. And if there’s no bike lane, then you can use the sidewalk — respectfully. Bicyclists have no 
right to act as if they own the sidewalk. By using the lane 
that is not designed for you, you are making everyone un-safe. 
Nicole Dan is a UF political science junior. Her column 
appears on Mondays.Clinton’s nail in the
coughin’: candidate 
health transparency
Last week in Darts and Laurels, we here at the Alligator 
gave a dart to the human respiratory system for causing Hillary Clinton to cough. This is problematic because it set off a series of nothing more than bulls--- argu-ments that — ignoring actual problems in this coun-
try — focused on personally attacking Clinton for her health. Typically, those who simply have nothing to bring to the table perpetuate these types of arguments. Ad-hominem attacks are nothing more than a distraction from a total ignorance of po-litical know-how.
Since then, the circumstances have changed. Sunday morn-
ing while at a Sept. 11 memorial ceremony in New York City, Clinton’s health problems were on full display. Footage sur-
faced of Clinton being helped into a black van that drove her 
to her daughter’s apartment. In the video, two security agents are literally holding her up, dragging her limp legs into the car. Her feet do not move at all, which implies she was uncon-
scious. It is clear that without the assistance of those agents, 
she would have collapsed onto the floor.
The video is incredibly discomforting. Regardless of where 
your political allegiances may lie, there is something uncom-
fortable and demoralizing about watching someone struggle like this. It also raises questions about her health that her op-ponents spewed last week. 
After the video’s release, her campaign has confirmed that 
Clinton was diagnosed with pneumonia two days before the ceremony. And yet, she was still in attendance. When we’re sick, we here at the Alligator prefer to stay in bed with some Netflix and medicine, thank you very much. 
We understand why Clinton is apprehensive to disclose 
information about her health: Giving the rumors a response may have cautiously dignified them, and it may in turn have legitimized her health-related concerns. 
But as we get closer to Election Day, physical and emo-
tional health become factors when evaluating who we want to entrust with our nation’s presidency.
Over the course of the primary and the national campaigns, 
both candidates have put themselves and their bodies through an incredibly exhausting and grueling process. If there’s a seri-ous medical issue, the country deserves to know, and we are grateful Clinton cleared up the brewing rumors.
However, while health should be considered (a president 
did die from pneumonia, after all), we hope her bout with illness does not completely take away from her campaign plat-form. It’s frustrating when something temporary (Clinton’s coughs, Donald Trump’s eviction of a baby from a rally) pulls attention away from the bureaucratic, economic and interna-tional policy approaches that will alter our country’s future.
Regardless of how you feel about them, we ask a lot of our 
presidential candidates. We ask them to spend months and years traveling across the country, holding multiple rallies and gatherings in one day, kissing who-knows-how-many germ-ridden babies. At the end of the race, the winning candidate 
will not be 100-percent healthy, but if he or she is dealing with 
a serious ailment, a bit of warning is nice. Good on the Clinton 
campaign for coming clean. Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
“This is one of those rare cases in 
which the rules were created for a good 
reason — to keep everyone safe.”MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Hi, friends! You may not 
recognize my name. That’s because I am brand spanking new to the opin-ions section! Let me intro-
duce myself. I’m Taylor Cavaliere, and I am so excited to be writing to you all as a columnist this se-mester. I’d also like to thank you: If you’re reading, then my worst fear — that literally not one per-son will read my column — has not come to fruition. 
Now, let’s talk about something we all 
struggle with: coming back to school. Return-ing to UF for a second year, for me, is a lot like entering an alternate dimension. Every-thing looks pretty much the same as it did four months ago, but nothing feels the same. Before I start quoting Drake, let me provide some context. 
Buildings and campus landmarks that pre-
viously meant nothing to me now hold im-mense signiﬁ  cance. While Library West was at ﬁ  rst just a somewhat inconveniently locat-ed library, it is now a place where I’ve spent hundreds of hours, rekindled friendships and spent too much money on Starbucks. And while Broward Hall was at ﬁ  rst just a dorm building with a strange, unidentiﬁ  able odor (still accurate), it now also holds memories of late-night bonding with my roommate, stressing about exams and applications and enjoying surprisingly good nights of sleep. 
You see, as a returner you can walk past 
the buildings your classes were in last year and feel either nostalgia or war ﬂ  ashbacks. You can walk down streets and remember exactly where you were mentally when you last visited that location, good or bad. 
It’s empowering to know what’s going 
on and to have some semblance of how this place works. I’m not saying I have everything under control — because I absolutely do not. I suppose what is different now is the accep-tance. I accept that I don’t have everything under control. I accept that sometimes I have to let go of a need to have every-thing under control. While this is not always easy, it has helped me enjoy life and feel more fulﬁ  lled from day to day. Hopefully you feel the acceptance and empower-ment, too. 
This isn’t to say freshman year 
wasn’t a great year. I met incred-ible people and did incredible things. But I also grew frustrated 
when I wasn’t qualiﬁ  ed enough for positions I sought desperately. I experienced a crisis about what I wanted to do with my life, and as a person who always thought I knew what I wanted, it was more than a little debilitat-ing. Eventually, I ﬁ  gured it out (I think). 
Of course, the second year comes with 
some cons, too. For example, you actually know the campus, so the “I got lost” ex-cuse is unfortunately no longer viable when you’re late for things. Also, you’re no longer exciting. People love talking to freshmen and passing down their passions to them. In my case, I have already discovered my passions (I think), so many people give up when they realize their particular evangelization tech-niques are lost on me.
Is this actually a con? Hard to say. I do 
like human interaction, but I also like walk-ing through Turlington Plaza and having no one attempt to speak to me.
Needless to say, the world looks a tiny bit 
different now. Whether you’re coming back for your second, third, fourth or even ﬁ  fth (hopefully not sixth) year, feel the empower-ment that comes with returning. You know more than you did this time last year, and you have a stronger sense of what’s impor-tant to you. Never take that for granted. Use these beneﬁ  ts of past experience and crush it this year. I know I’m thrilled to be back in my favorite place in the world for another great year full of memories to last a lifetime. 
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF psychology and 
journalism sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.
Returning students: Own this yearColumn
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgWhat outﬁ  t do you want to be buried in when you die? Go on, really think about it. You’ll probably want some-
thing nice and ﬂ  attering. Above all, though, you’ll want something representative of the person you were when you were alive. This might seem easy for some of you. But for someone whose gender identity is nonconforming, this is a heavy question. 
Far too often, LGBTQ+ bodies are put in 
the ground projecting an image they never felt was their own. Maybe they were not out to their family at the time of their death. Maybe their family ignored their wishes be-cause of their religion or culture. Whatever the reason, the result is the same: You die a person whom you never really were.
Imagine if people refused to call you by 
your real name. To them, your name is un-important, and they use an absurd lack of ef-fort getting to know it or you. This is what someone is telling you when they misgender you. Some might dismiss this as an exaggera-tion or overreaction. But it is serious, and it is not OK. It can stem from misunderstanding, but this is easily ﬁ  xed by using more gender-neutral speech. 
If you successfully learned to stop picking 
your nose in public, you can easily adjust to saying “they” instead of “he” or “her.” Trust me. It is worth the effort to show people re-spect by acknowledging them by their name. Not everyone has gone into a new space where they have been asked to introduce themselves with their pronouns, but it is a quick way to make everyone comfortable. It really should be a common courtesy.  
If you’re cisgender, or someone who iden-
tiﬁ  es with the gender you were assigned at birth, you really shouldn’t answer “Anything is ﬁ  ne” when asked what your pronouns are. You know it’s not true. If the world misgen-dered you constantly, which is exactly what transgender people are forced to deal with every day, it would sting. It would hurt you. It would strip you of your own identity. So just state your pronouns. If you are questioning, it is OK for your answer to really be anything, but just make that clear. Say you are unsure what your pronouns are, and you’re trying them out. That’s what names are for: to represent who you are as an individual. 
Hearing “I don’t care” or “It doesn’t mat-
ter” from a cisgender person is really dis-heartening. They have the ability to not care because no one would even question their gender anyway. But it does matter to a lot of people. They go through each day dread-ing the moment when they have to decide whether to correct a person for using the wrong pronouns or stay painfully silent to avoid the judgement. 
Yes, most people are cisgender. But that 
doesn’t diminish the value of those who aren’t. Your identity isn’t worth more than anyone else’s. When you misgender some-one, you are really telling them you don’t care about what they say, that they spent however many years forming into a person you aren’t willing to acknowledge. You are saying you think their identities are yours to label, that you don’t care enough to see them for who they are. It doesn’t matter how much they “pass” or how much they fall into the conventional appearance of their true gen-der: Their bodies and lives are not yours to deﬁ  ne. 
“When girls go out with their boyfriends. 
Or girlfriends. Whatever you are into.” My professor said this as a joke, and the class laughed the way she expected. But for those of us who don’t have the luxury of identi-fying with traditional gender roles, it was cringe-worthy. 
Brooke Henderson is a UF journalism and 
international studies sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.
Gender is more than a pronoun  Column
Brooke 
Henderson
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016
IT WAS HOSTED BY A LOCAL JEW -
ISH COMMUNITY CENTER. 
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
One by one, they approached the 
wooden towers.
Jotting down a good deed they had 
done — or would soon do — students and 
residents placed small squares of paper 
between 3-foot-tall replicas of the World 
Trade Center’s twin towers.
Smile at a stranger, one person wrote. 
Tell someone they’re beautiful. Call 
grandma. 
By mid-afternoon Friday, about 100 
acts of kindness decorated the space be-tween the towers — symbols of hope nearly 15 years after the 9/11 attacks.
Hosted by the Lubavitch-Chabad Jew-
ish Student and Community Center, the 
memorial event served as a way for the 
community to remember the nearly 3,000 people who died Sept. 11, 2001 and to honor their lives through random acts of 
kindness.
“It’s up to us to keep their memo-
ry alive,” said Rabbi Aaron Notik of Lubavitch-Chabad.
•   •   •
Charlie Anderson listed his four years 
serving in the U.S. Air Force as his good 
deed.
Working as a heavy-equipment opera-
tor in the military about 30 years ago, the 
Gainesville resident said his job was to 
help rebuild bases after attacks.
But even 15 years after the deadliest 
terrorist attack in history, the U.S. and its people have yet to fully rebuild, he said.
Through small acts of compassion, 
however, he said the wounds could heal.
“If we put our hearts together and 
come together as a country, we can be great again,” he said.
Some good deeds passed through the 
hands of Jacob Zieper, 21, who volun-teered at the event.
He said it was humbling to see people 
act selflessly with no ulterior motives.
“The only way you can fight senseless 
hate is with random love,” the UF Jewish studies senior said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgCommunity honors 9/11 victims with acts of kindness
Martin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
Dozens of students and Gainesville residents pinned acts of kindness they had done, or would soon do, between a replica of the World Trade Center’s twin towers on Friday on Turlington Plaza. The event, held in memory of 9/11, was put on by the Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Center.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
When you walk into the Samuel 
P. Harn Museum of Art, blank gaz-
es of soldiers stare back. 
Fifteen years after 9/11, about 
50 people listened as Carol Mc-Cusker, the curator of photography 
for the museum, spoke about her most recent collection, “Aftermath: 
The Fallout of War — America and 
the Middle East,” a gallery of pho-tos, videos and moving pictures of 
war’s realities from international 
photographers. The portraits of soldiers, some 
of the first photos guests see, are from a collection called “Soldier” by photographer Suzanne Opton.  
The pictures give a uniquely 
intimate perspective of people de-ployed to war; below, a descrip-
tion details the country of each sol-
dier’s deployment and the number of days they were there. 
“What I also hope is one of the 
outcomes of this exhibition is that there is a shared humanity here 
and that everyone suffers,” Mc-
Cusker said. 
The photos showed the product of war over the past 15 years since 9/11, said Gabriel Lopez, a UF 
alumnus who attended the event. 
“The impact is basically the de-
struction of cities, the destruction of families, and in many cases, the 
destruction of civilization,” the 61-year-old said. 
As he walked around, Lopez 
said he felt the reality of violence that followed the tragedy of 9/11.
“This is the product of what 
we’ve been doing around the world for 15 years, and wars that 
seem that (sic) have no end,” he 
said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgHarn exhibits war through art
Paige Fry / Alligator Staff
An onlooker stares at intimate portraits taken by photographer Suzanne Opton of soldiers deployed 
in various countries resting their heads on tables. The gallery was at the Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art on Sunday.
I am at a loss for words. Terms such as “horrific,” “barbaric” and “cowardly” have made their rounds through every media outlet imaginable and 
through the minds of all who have seen even a glimpse of the destruc-tion that took place on Tuesday morning. However, these words are so insignificant and weak.
As a human being and as a 
Pakistani, I would like to extend my deepest and most heartfelt condolences to all who have been touched by this disaster. I am ex-periencing many emotions today, horror and shock most saliently, followed by fear and anxiety. 
These are dark days for all of us, 
especially Muslims who must deal with the backlash of an angry na-tion. Let me proceed by being as forthcoming as possible.
I, just like any American, was 
appalled by the events of Sept. 11. My best friend was working less than a block away from the towers at the time of the attacks. I could not reach him until Wednesday. My sister, who is a doctor, aided in relief efforts in Washington D.C. Having spoken to my friends and family both here and in Pakistan, I cannot tell you how shocked and outraged we all are.
I understand my religion and 
country have some stigmas at-tached to them. But that is all they are. In this short space, all I can say is we are just as moved by this terrible tragedy as any American. None of us would ever wish this upon anyone. Please remember that we are a loving people as well. By some estimates about 1,200 Pakistanis were in the trade towers when they were attacked.
Ascribing the attacks of Tues-
day morning to all Muslims is tantamount to one holding the Oklahoma City bombing against all Christians, the acts of Hitler or Neo-Nazis against all white people and so forth. It just does not make sense. I cannot tell you how hurt and disappointed I was to see the video of those few ignorant souls celebrating in the streets of Pales-tine. Pay no heed to them. This is exactly why ignorance is so dan-gerous. 
I pray for the souls of all those 
who have so tragically left us, for the health of those who fight for their lives now and for God to give comfort to those who are dealing with such irreversible loss. I have faith that the government of Paki-stan will do the right thing and as-sist the U.S. in all avenues of its search for justice, should elements in that region be identified as the culprits. The government aside, I feel I very well speak for Pakistanis across the country when I say we are hurting just like our American brothers and sisters and will be there for you any time, any place and in any way you may need us.
Zeeshan Bhatti was a Ph.D. stu-
dent in the Department of Manage-ment on Sept. 12, 2001. 
American Muslims want justice 
for attacks, shouldn’t be blamedColumn
ORIGINALL Y PUBLISHED SEPT. 12, 2001
It shows the impact of 9/11  MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
a gesture of respect to those who 
may not understand that Islam preaches love and doesn’t support killing anyone. 
But in the weeks following 
the attacks, UF changed in other ways, said George Esenwein, a UF adjunct professor who specializes in European political violence and terrorism.
In 2002, Florida passed a stat-
ute requiring every public K-20 state institution to display the American ﬂ  ag in each classroom.
This reaction almost forced 
students to take a loyalty oath when universities are supposed to be places to discuss controversial subjects, he said.
“It had a negative impact in the 
fact that it put a real damper on in-tellectual discourse,” he said. 
•   •   •
Living in Long Island as a child, 
Anthony Ferrara would often take ﬁ  eld trips to the World Trade Cen-ter.
The Gainesville Police captain 
and New York native said memo-ries of the city’s skyline are among his most cherished.
But after the 9/11 attacks razed 
the twin towers and killed nearly 3,000 people, the context of Fer-rara’s memories — and his job as a law enforcement ofﬁ  cer — changed forever.
“This was nothing we had ever 
seen,” he said.
Within minutes of the terror 
attack, all non essential police ac-tivity was suspended, and off-duty ofﬁ  cers were patrolling the city.
The attack bred a new fear, a 
new type of criminal: one who wouldn’t mind dying for a cause.
After the towers fell, GPD of-
ﬁ  cers received brieﬁ  ngs from the U.S. Department of Homeland Se-curity, Ferrara said.
A new policy, enacted by the 
federal department, tasked police to report suspicious activities.
Suspicious Activity Reports, 
which would be sent by each de-
partment to the Department of Homeland Security, added an ex-
tra layer of responsibility to ofﬁ  -
cers’ shoulders, Ferrara said.
Cars parked in front of govern-
ment buildings. Chemicals stored 
in bathrooms. Airplanes ﬂ  ying low.
These were reasons to worry, 
he said.
Violence from abroad had 
trickled down onto the country’s 
doorstep. In Gainesville, police felt 
this new threat, said Lt. Tscharna Senn.
Before 9/11, ofﬁ  cers’ training 
centered on proﬁ  ciency in shoot-ing, driving and ﬁ  ghting, she said.
“After 9/11 it was more of try-
ing to prepare for the unknown, something we weren’t really com-fortable with training for,” she said. “It’s scary — it’s very scary.”
costroff@alligator.org
mvassolo@alligator.org 9/11,  from pg 1The campus and the community changed 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
A visitor reaches to touch a name engraved at the 9/11 memorial 
site to remember the victims of the 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center, on Thursday in New York. Sunday marked the 15th anniversary of the terror attacks. 
Death of innocence
What a loss.
The sense of complacency shared by an American populace 
crumbled to the ground with the World Trade Center towers Tuesday 
morning. The terrorist attack on the U.S. shattered the consciousness of a country. After decades of feeling invincible, the U.S. now feels 
more vulnerable than it ever has.
The feeling that comes with a violation like this one will stay with this coun-
try forever because this situation is different than any other Americans have faced.
We have been attacked before, but never like this — never with the strength 
of this attack, never against a building that serves as a landmark and a major center of the world’s business, and never has by our own devices turned against us. 
With this attack, we’ve lost what innocence we had left. The cry of “it can’t 
happen to us” was abruptly silenced.
The images on television were shocking. The scene looked like footage from 
countries far from here, where war is a way of life. New York did not look like New York; it looked like a war zone.
Maybe it was.Students usually preoccupied with their own lives huddled around televi-
sions, transﬁ  xed by the images they were seeing on the networks’ coverage and amazed by the news reports of what happened in Washington and New York. In twos and threes, we talked in hushed tones. Cellphones, when they worked, 
provided a quick contact for friends sharing the news and comforting each other.
Video of a jetliner completely penetrating one of the towers of the World 
Trade Center will remain in our collective memory as long as we live. We will 
all remember where we were when we heard the news. This attack will have an impact on our culture on par with the one the Kennedy assassination holds for the generation of our parents or the Pearl Harbor attack for our grandparents.
But, while we mourn the loss of lives and the death of our nationwide inno-
cence, we must also remember to keep our wits about us. Too often, Americans look for a scapegoat without having any real proof.
Islam on Campus has already received threats from some of our more re-
actionary citizens. Some have already placed blame for this horrible incident squarely on the shoulders of the people of the Middle East. 
The fact is, we have no idea who is responsible for this and to pin it on any-
one this early is amazingly irresponsible. Making snap judgements on something of this magnitude will only make matters worse.
We must, however, ﬁ  nd the people responsible for this and bring them to jus-
tice. Tuesday’s events were a declaration of war. It is the job of this government to ﬁ  nd out where it came from and to react with swift justice.
It is too early to know for certain where this came from, but when we do 
know for sure, we must not sit idly by and let this act of terrorism go unchecked. While it is important to not jump to conclusions, we must also act quickly and strongly.
When you remember days like this, you remember skies darker than they 
really were. The world seems to stop. There are odd moments of time that will stick forever. Maybe this is our “where were you then…” question. And we’re in Florida. We can’t even imagine what Sept. 11, 2001 will be like in the minds of those in New York and our nation’s fractured capital.
God willing, we’ll never have to.
Editor: Trey Csar 
Editorial Page Editor: Jason BrownEditorial Board: Nathan Kozyra and Mark WardEditorial
ORIGINALL Y PUBLISHED SEPT. 12, 2001BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-3-16-29-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished 3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedUF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Designated drivers are the greatest
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
ACROSS
1 Is blessed with,
as talent
4 Creator of Finn
and Sawyer
9 Leave rolling in
the aisles
13 That, in Spain
14 “Olde” store15 Ring over an
angel
16 Crustacean
catcher
18 Out of town19 Intent20 OB/GYN
procedure
21 Hiding spot for a
cheater’s ace
22 Put off bedtime25 Weapon in Clue27 Brewery product30 “Defending our
rights” org.
33 Electrified atoms
34 Scans for injured
athletes, briefly
35 __ Mawr College
36 Piece of pizza37 To-do list entry38 Worse-than-
one’s-bite quality
39 Online TV giant40 Since, in a
holiday song
41 Fifi’s friend
42 Slip for a tardy
student
45 Like the Arctic,
compared to
most of theplanet
47 Two-base hit
51 Debate issue53 Illness
characterized by
a red rash
54 Soon, to a bard
55 Decorator’s wall
prettifier
58 Subtle look59 Lion groups60 Former AT&T rival61 Former fast
planes
62 Unemotional
63 Bladed
gardening tool
DOWN
1 Makes a
difference
2 “I won’t tell __!”3 Buffalo hockey
player
4 Title venue for
Hemingway’s old
man
5 Sported6 Kindle download7 Wall St. debut8 Volleyball barrier9 SeaWorld star
10 Backyard bash11 Jai __
12 String-around-
your-finger toy
14 Cooking
appliance
17 Explore caves
20 Sailor’s word of
obedience
22 Information that
ruins the ending
23 Costner/Russo
golf film
24 Basilica recess26 Water down28 Bank claim
29 Salinger’s “With
Love and
Squalor” girl
30 Palindromic pop
group
31 Study all night32 Keats or Byron,
e.g.34 Pageant title with
51 contestants
(the 50 statesplus D.C.)
36 Roe source42 Partners’ legal
entity: Abbr.
43 Madison Ave.
bigwig
44 Most TV “operas”46 Sounds from sties48 “Mutiny on the
Bounty” captain49 Slow movement50 Perfumer 
Lauder
51 Four-note lights-
out tune
52 Singles53 Prefix with care55 Collectors’
albums ... and ahint to six puzzleanswers
56 Gallery collection57 Chihuahua uncle
By Brock Wilson
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/12/1609/12/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, September 12, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
1. In 2015, Eddie Rosario set a Min-
nesota Twins record for most triples 
by a rookie (15). Who had held the 
mark?
2. Who was the first third baseman 
elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame?
3. When was the last time before 
2015 that the University of Oregon 
football team was not ranked in The Associated Press Top 25 poll?
4. The top two players on the NBA’s 
career assists list are John Stockton 
(15,806) and Jason Kidd (12,091). 
Who is No. 3?
5. When Dallas’ Jamie Benn won 
the Art Ross Trophy (top NHL scorer) in the 2014-15 season, it was the low-est total (87 points) by a league leader in a full season since when?
6. In 2016, bowler Anthony Simon-
sen (19 years, 39 days) became the youngest winner of a major cham-
pionship on the PBA Tour. Who had 
been the youngest?
7. How many times did famed hors-
es Affirmed and Alydar race against one another?
Answers:
1. Tony Olivia, who hit nine triples 
in 1964.
2. Jimmy Collins, in 1945.3. It was 2009.4. Steve Nash, with 10,335 assists.5. Chicago’s Stan Mikita tallied 87 
points in the 1967-68 season.
6. Mike Aulby was 19 years, 83 days 
old when he won the PBA National Championship in 1979.
7. Ten times, with Affirmed winning 
seven of them, including all three Tri-ple Crown races in 1978.
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 5, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11NOW HIRING UF/SFC Students 
Production / Delivery / Stock Clerks
$10 - $13/hr
Apply at: SmokinNotes.com/Production
9-19-16-12-14
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is 
seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
Gleim Design is looking for a strong full time Maintenance Tech.Good background in general maintenance. Plumbing, electrical, mechanical and paint-ing skills desirable. Must have a truck and tools. Good driving record. Current drivers license. Ability to lift 50+ lbs.
Stable work. Great benefit package that in-
cludes medical, dental, vision, disability, life, AD&D, profit sharing/retirement, PTO andholiday pay and more.
Please send a resume to hr@gleim.com.    
9-13-16-10-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working studentPART-TIME HOUSEWORK / LAND MAINTENANCE ON WEEKENDS.Start at $10/hr.Contact: FairOaks1879@aol.com     9-14-16-5-14SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Home/Apartment/office cleaners needed ASAP. Weekly pay 8.50/hr $200-$350 week-ly. Must have a reliable car of your own and be able to pass a drug/background check. If really interested please call 352-214-0868.     9-15-16-5-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 24 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     9-23-16-10-14
Local TV station now hiring control room operators. Must be able to work nights and weekends. Equal opportunity employer.For details find Gainesville openings atsbgtv-openhire.silkroad.com     9-13-16-2-14
Mortgage company looking for part-time lead originators. $12/hour plus bonus. Weekday evenings. Students preferred. Email your contact info or resume to mike@AmericanFinancial.loans     9-16-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016
16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
"I hit him in a tackle in the stomach one time. I was like, 'Dang, his 
abs are better than mine.'"
UF running back Mark Thompson on  6-foot-5, 340-pound offensive 
lineman Jawaan T aylor Running back Mark Thompson 
and the Florida football team routed Kentucky 45-7 on Saturday.See the photo story, pg. 14.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
Jalen Tabor knew the play.
He read Kentucky quarterback 
Drew Barker’s eyes, analyzed the 
formation, watched for the minute 
shifts in protection.
Film study paid off.With the Wildcats facing sec-
ond and 10 in Florida territory, Ta-bor jumped on a screen pass and came down with the interception.
It was one of four turnovers the 
Gators forced in their 45-7 drub-
bing of Kentucky on Saturday, 
and it helped Florida make a state-ment.
The defense is still one to be 
feared.
“We tell these guys over and 
over, through your film study and learning tendencies you can ac-tually play faster,” UF coach Jim 
McElwain said after the game. 
“And in that case, boy that was a big time play by him.”
With Tabor back from a one-
game suspension and Duke Daw-son back after suffering a shoul-der injury in the season-opener against UMass, the Gators (2-0, 1-0 Southeastern Conference) 
wreaked havoc on Kentucky’s of-
fense.
They intercepted three passes and recovered a Kentucky fum-ble — a quartet of turnovers that 
led to 28 points — and will look 
to continue their dominant play when they face North Texas on Saturday.
UF rattled Barker the entire 
game, sacking the Kentucky soph-
omore four times before coaches 
yanked him out of the game in the third quarter. 
His replacement, Stephen John-
son, didn’t fare much better. He fumbled on his second play from scrimmage on a Jachai Polite strip-sack for UF’s fifth sack of the 
night.
“We forced turnovers so that 
the offense could score points,” 
said cornerback Quincy Wilson, who had the first turnover of 
the game on a one-handed inter-
ception on the left sideline.”We worked on executing and getting the first turnover and then the first 
turns into two and two turns into 
three, turns into four. We did a good job of that today.”
Overall, Florida limited Ken-
tucky (0-2, 0-1 SEC) to just 149 yards of offense, with most of it coming on a 45-yard completion 
from Johnson to Jeff Badet late in 
the fourth quarter.
 Remove Badet’s catch-and-
run, and the Gators limited Ken-tucky to about 2.2 yards per play on Saturday.
The Wildcats also converted 
just four of their 12 third-down at-tempts.
They did eventually score on a 
2-yard Jojo Kemp rush — set up by the 45-yard pass — to avoid the shutout.
Regardless, Wilson said the 
Gators aren’t planning on coasting now that they have a big perfor-mance behind them.
There are still 10 games to play.“We’ve just got to keep going 
out there and pressing on (the op-posing offense) so we can keep scoring and putting up points,” Wilson said. 
“We just did a good job of 
not relaxing when we got up on 
them.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.orgFlorida defense looks to sustain dominance after win
The Gators had three INTs
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Jalen T abor celebrates after a play during Florida's 45-7 win over Kentucky. T abor, who was suspended 
for UF's season opener against UMass, had an interception on Saturday. 
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Florida’s volleyball team has been on 
a tear. 
Ever since dropping a set to the un-
ranked Oregon Ducks on Aug. 27, the 
Gators have run through their competi-tion, sweeping each of their next four op-ponents in straight sets. No team has lost 
by less than five points in a set.
Sunday was no exception. 
Squaring off against LIU Brooklyn, No. 
8 Florida stretched its unbeaten streak to 17 sets, claiming its sixth victory of the 
season in the process. 
Playing its second game in as many days, UF (6-1) got off to a sluggish start. 
With head coach Mary Wise electing to rest star middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan, the Blackbirds (1-8) opened an early 6-3 advantage. 
However, Florida responded. Latching 
onto a set from Allie Monserez, senior Alex Holston spiked home a kill, sparking a 15-3 run highlighted by Holston’s back-
to-back service aces. 
The second set brought more of the 
same. An early 8-1 run gave the Gators an 
insurmountable advantage, one preserved by the play of freshmen middle blockers 
Darrielle King and Rachael Kramer. 
“This was a great match to get play-Gators extend winning 
streak in weekend matches SOPHOMORE SAM HORSFIELD 
ENDED THE TOURNAMENT IN A 
TIE FOR SIXTH PLACE. 
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Although the Florida men's golf team 
ended its first Fall invitational in fifth place 
with two of its golfers finishing under par, 
coach J.C. Deacon wasn't satisfied with 
the results. 
"We were defeated by quite a few 
shots," Deacon said in a release,  "so we've 
got to get home and get back to work and 
figure out how to get better." 
The Gators finished Round 3 of the Car-
pet Capital Invitational on Sunday in a tie for fifth place with a fi-nal score of 1 under par.
In the third round, 
sophomores Sam Hors-
field and Jorge Garcia 
finished below par, while sophomore Gor-
don Neale finished at 
even par.
But even with Florida's solid score, the 
three sophomores still had their fair share 
of ups and downs.
Horsfield, who set himself up within 
striking distance of the leader on Saturday, couldn’t continue to narrow the distance, hitting four birdies and three bogeys to end his day at 1 under par. Men's golf finishes first 
Fall tournament in fifthVOLLEYBALL
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 15 SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15Horsfield
14   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Antonio Callaway spreads his arms and runs toward the crowd after scoring a 78-yard 
touchdown in Florida’s win over Kentucky on Saturday. 
more interceptions (three) than Kentucky’s  starting quarterback Drew Barker had completions (two). 
It was dominance. 
“I thought we came out aggres-
sively,” McElwain said. 
“We’re not going to take no for 
an answer. That’s the edge that the 
Gators have to play with to be suc-
cessful.”
And yet, McElwain wasn’t en-tirely satisﬁ  ed. After the game, 
the coach said “we can play bet-ter than this,” and added that he wasn’t overly impressed with Del Rio’s 19-for-32, 320-yard, four-touchdown stat line, calling his lone interception “unacceptable.”
Players agreed with their 
coach’s assessment.
“We beat Kentucky,” Brantley 
said. “But we didn’t win the SEC Championship or the national 
championship. It’s one game.”
And even with Del Rio’s con-stant connection with Callaway, 
who ﬁ  nished with a career-high 129 yards on ﬁ  ve receptions, Flori-da’s quarterback was careful not to fawn over his career day.
“If I wanted someone to pat me 
on the back, I’d go ask a fan or look at Twitter,” Del Rio said. 
“I want to be coached, and I 
want to be coached hard. I want to be expected to make every play because I know I can make every 
play.”
After Saturday’s performance, he’ll be expected to, as will Florida.
That was the team the Gators 
had boasted throughout the pre-
season, when coaches touted their ﬁ  ve-player running back group, which ﬁ  nished with a season-high 239 yards and three touchdowns on Saturday. 
Or when they bragged about 
their talented collection of de-fensive backs, who tallied three interceptions, including Quincy 
Wilson’s one-handed, tip-toeing 
grab along the sideline in the ﬁ  rst quarter.
After Saturday, Florida realized 
who it can be.
After Saturday, players and 
coaches were in agreement: This 
will be the standard when UF faces North Texas on Saturday and plays its ﬁ  rst road game at Tennessee the following week.
“When everybody just does 
their job,” Brantley said, “nobody 
can mess with us.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg 1Callaway had a career-high 129 receiving yards on Saturday
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida kicker Eddy Pineiro (15) celebrates with defensive lineman Jordan Sherit (17) 
after kicking a 54-yard ﬁ  eld goal. It was UF’s longest ﬁ  eld goal since 2011.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Running back Mark Thompson dives  over a Kentucky defender during Florida’s 45-7 win over UK on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.  Thompson ﬁ  nished the game with 59 yards and his ﬁ  rst career touchdown.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
ers experience,” Wise said in a 
release. “We see the growth of our freshmen middles and it was a match where they were given the opportunity and took full ad-vantage of it.”
Posting three in the second set — including the decisive set-point winner — King notched a career-high nine kills during the match. Hitting an error-free 
.714, Kramer managed five total kills throughout the contest, with 
two coming in the second frame. Both players would finish among the club’s top-three in blocks for 
the day. 
All Florida needed to do was 
close out the third set.
After a back-and-forth start, 
freshman defensive specialist 
Chanelle Hargreaves made her mark, hammering back-to-back service aces against LIU’s Nata-lia Rivera to nudge Florida ahead 
9-5 and giving the Gators their 
fifth match this season with at least five aces. 
And although UF allowed its 
opponent to knot the score at 12, freshman Morgyn Greer inspired a 9-0 run, chipping in three kills of her own. 
In all, six Florida freshmen 
contributed in the rout, a prom-ising sign of the group’s develop-ment. 
That development will soon 
be put to the test — facing ar-guably their strongest opponent since No. 1 Nebraska, the Gators will close out an eight-game road trip against No. 13-ranked 
Florida State this Wednesday at 
6 p.m. 
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgVOLLEY,  from pg 13Florida faces Florida State on W ednesday Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan looks to spike the ball during Florida's 3-1 loss to Kentucky on Sept. 27 in the O'Connell Center. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Mary Wise talks to one of her players during Florida's 3-1 loss to Kentucky on Sept. 27 in the 
O'Connell Center. 
He finished the tournament at 
8 under par in a tie for sixth place.
Neale hovered over par all day 
on Sunday, only falling below 
par once with a birdie on the first hole.
 On the front nine, he bogeyed 
three times and failed to record another birdie.
The back nine was a little dif-
ferent.
Neale hit two birdies to start, 
but traded bogeys and birdies to keep his score at even par for the day. 
He ended the three-day tourna-
ment at 4 under par, finishing in 17th place.
Garcia had trouble on the front 
nine, hitting three bogeys and fail-ing to record a birdie. 
He turned it around with four 
birdies on the back nine to end the day at 1 under par, but fin-ished the tournament at 2 over 
par and in a tie for 30th.
Junior Alejandro Tosti contin-
ued to struggle like he did all tour-
nament. 
Despite hitting five birdies 
and the only eagle for the Gators on Sunday, Tosti couldn’t build on his performance, recording four bogeys and two double bo-
geys to cap his score for the day 
at 1 over par. His tournament score of 7 over par was a tie for 53rd.  
"There were some very tough 
but very necessary lessons learned this week both on and off the course," Deacon said.
Despite hitting 1 under par on 
Saturday, senior Ryan Orr also had a rough showing. 
He only hit two birdies and 
shot six bogeys and a double bo-gey to finish with a Round 3 score 
of 6 over par and his tournament 
score at 9 over par in 59th place. 
"It wasn't an ideal weekend 
for us as a group," Deacon said, 
"but I think we learned a lot of 
the tough lessons that are going to help us going down the line."
Florida’s next tournament is 
the Windon Memorial Classic on 
Sept. 25 in Glenview, Illinois, and 
Deacon is optimistic that his team will play better there. 
"Our goals are high and that's 
where our work ethic needs to be, 
too," Deacon said.
 "It's going to take some time, 
but we can really get this thing go-ing."
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgGOLF,  from pg 13UF 's next 
tournament 
is in two 
weeks16   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2016
