We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 100 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016
UF gymnastics holds annual breast 
cancer awareness meet Friday
They haven’t lost at the event pg. 17
Party platforms at a glance
Check out points from Impact and Access Party platforms, pg. 3
UF Shakespeare group to deliver cards to kids at Shands
They’ll be delivered Sunday, pg. 5Check out the Avenue
Wiz Khalifa, mediocre advice, music 
roundup, Valentine’s Day ideas and movie review, pgs. 8-13
IT MARKED THE 
BEGINNING 
OF LENT.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Students formed a line on the Plaza of 
the Americas as they received ashes on 
their foreheads Wednesday.
About 200 students gathered in the 
50-degree weather for Ash Wednesday, which starts the season of Lent, said Lau-
ren Troncoso, a UF psychology senior. 
Catholic Gators and St. Augustine 
Catholic Church held Mass on the Grass, in which students prayed and sang songs before receiving ashes.
Nick D’Agostino, a UF mechanical en-
gineering junior, acted as an altar server, helping the priest during the mass. 
“Usually there will be about 80 stu-
dents here,” the 20-year-old said.
Troncoso, 22, and Veronica Celis, 20, 
co-coordinators of Catholic Gators, said the event was successful.
“When Lauren and I made the Face-
book event, it blew up immediately,” said Celis, a UF nursing junior.
Father David Ruchinski said he no-
ticed the crowd was large when he didn’t have enough wafers for students.
“He had to break them in smaller and 
smaller pieces,” Troncoso said.
Students who attended the service 
walked away with ash on their foreheads 
in the shape of a cross.
“I like to think that it’s an outward 
sign of our inward commitment and re-pentance,” said Joe Sutherland, a UF me-
chanical engineering junior.
Troncoso said this mass differed from 
the ones she attends in church.
“It’s a unique experience,” she said. 
“You are proclaiming your faith in front 
of everyone on campus. You aren’t hiding 
in a church.”
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org   Students pray, receive ashes on plaza
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Students will be able to view their ﬁ  nal 
grades on a new website next week.
Student services, such as transcripts and 
degree audits, will move from ISIS to One.UF, 
UF’s new online class registration system, on 
Feb. 19, Tracy Gale, UF’s Information Tech-
nology communications manager, wrote in an email. Currently, students can access a version of the site to search for classes.
The changes are part of a campus-wide, 
multi-year program to modernize student ser-vices and make them easier to use, she said.
Students will be able to access the site on 
smartphones and mobile devices. Gale said the site will be easier to access on all devices and have a modern design with better technological support than ISIS has.
“ONE.UF is a portal, and the plans are to 
move more student services (or “apps”) to the 
one.uﬂ  .edu platform,” she said.
Rachel Farmer, a UF mechanical engineer-
ing junior, said she hopes the One.UF mobile 
website will be easier to use than ISIS.
“It’s just not a good interface on the mobile,” 
the 20-year-old said. “It’s just kind of ‘eh.’”
She said she would like to see a One.UF 
app that is more compatible with her Android phone so she can check her class schedule 
more easily.
“It would be really convenient if One.UF in-
corporated an app,” she said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org Transcripts, 
audits move to One.UFCAMPUS
 Florida Fun Bikes debuts 16-person bike, hosts beer tours
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sarah Freeman watched Flor-
ida Fun Bikes come to life from 
her job across the street.
“I saw this place being con-
structed, so I’m interested to see 
how it is,” the 21-year-old UF el-
ementary education senior said.Today is the company’s grand 
opening from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. at 530 W. University Ave.
Co-owner Amber Shelton said 
the event includes free food, drinks and music, along with sample tours on the bike.
About 200 people RSVP’d on 
the event’s Facebook page as of press time.Shelton said the 16-person bike 
arrived from the Netherlands and allows riders to pedal in unison.
“It’s 100-percent human-pow-
ered,” Shelton said.
She said the typical bar tour 
includes 20-minute pedaling ses-sions with drinking breaks in be-tween. Other tours include coffee, food or mural sighting.Her ﬁ  ancé and fellow co-
owner, Derrick Robinson, is a Gainesville native who saw po-tential in bringing the bike to 
Gainesville.
“Our bike is one of those things 
you just have to see to know how 
awesome it is,” Shelton said.
Along with light strands and 
a sound system, Shelton said a disco ball is in the bike’s future.
“It lights up like a Christmas 
tree,” she said.
Drew Hacker, a 21-year-old UF 
ﬁ  nance senior, said he ﬁ  rst heard about the concept from a friend who toured in Fort Lauderdale.
“I’m a large fan of alcohol and 
so is my friend, so I’ll deﬁ  nitely try this out,” he said. 
Valentina Osorio, a 21-year-old UF psychology senior, 
receives an ash cross from Father David Ruchinski of St. Augustine Church on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday. A crowd of about 200 gathered to observe Ash Wednesday to mark the beginning of Lent.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
“ONE.UF is a portal, and the plans 
are to move more student services (or 
“apps”) to one.ul.edu program.”
Tracy Gale  
UF’s Information T echnology 
communications manager Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
There’s no debate about con-
sent
Join UF’s Sexual Trauma/
Interpersonal Violence 
Education for Consent Week for opportunities to learn and talk about what consent is, 
what it isn’t and how to navi-
gate uncertainties. Today, you can find Cupid’s Consent Fair on the Plaza of the Americas from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. There 
will be games and prizes, 
not to mention opportuni-ties to win exclusive STRIVE prize packs and Consent 2016 
T-shirts!
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a 
“Hunger Games”: The Final 
Tribute-themed event Friday 
from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature an inflatable maze, 
archery with prizes and free 
custom dog tags. The event will also feature two show-ings of the movie “The Hunger Games: Mockingjay, Part 2” at 
8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free nachos during Midnight Munchies. 
This event is free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maxi-
mum of one guest to the event.
A Valentine’s Night at the 
Museum, Feb. 13Spend Valentine’s eve at the 
Florida Museum of Natural History playing trivia games. The program fee includes ad-mission to the “First Colony: 
Our Spanish Origins” exhibit 
and participation in trivia night. The museum is open from 6 p.m. until 10 p.m. for 
this event. Trivia begins at 
7:30 p.m. The program fee is $10 per person or $15 per couple, and it’s free for both UF students with valid Gator 1 
Cards and museum members. 
A Valentine’s Night at the Museum is for adults only (ages 18 and up). Preregistration is 
required. For more informa-
tion, call 352-273-2061.
Free English and citizenship 
classes offered to commu-
nityFree English classes are offered 
every Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 
7:30 p.m., and free citizen-
ship classes are offered every Thursday from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at Millhopper Library. For more information, email 
info@latinawomensleague.org 
or visit latinawomensleague.org.
Faculty recital: Duo Anno 1647 
featuring Kristen Stoner playing the fluteThe UF School of Music pres-ents a performance by Duo 
Anno 1647, including UF 
faculty member Dr. Kristen Stoner (flute) and guest artist Manabu Takasawa (piano), 
from the University of Rhode 
Island, on Monday at 7:30 p.m. The performance is in the Music Building, Room 101 and is free and open to the public. 
They will perform “Poem” by 
Charles Griffes, “Ballade” by Frank Martin, “Deep Blue” by Ian Clarke, “Sonatina” by 
Camargo Guarnieri, “First 
Sonata” by Bohuslav Martinu and “Soliloquy” by Jake Heggie.
Enter the Pepsi Gators Give 
Back ContestCalling all creative problem solvers! Help Library West go 
green. Write a 150- to 500-
word essay describing an idea to advance sustainability is-sues within Library West, and you could win $500 in Pepsi 
products. UF students can sub-
mit ideas by Monday to bsd.ufl.edu/g1c/zerowaste.
Sex in the Swamp returns to UF 
on Feb. 18The Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF, in partnership with the UF 
Student Health Care Center, is 
proud to announce a renewed Sex in the Swamp event com-ing to the Florida Gym on 
Feb. 18. Starting at 7 p.m., 
join campus and community organizations for a variety of great Spring Break tips, in-formation and freebies, in-
cluding: a live SEXpert panel, 
Spring Break tips, free food, giveaways, and free tank tops and sunglasses for the 
first 200 students. For more 
information and to RSVP on Facebook, visit facebook.com/events/1666178790317109.Graduate recital: Scott Ziegler, 
organ
The School of Music presents 
an organ recital by graduate 
student Scott Ziegler in the 
University Auditorium on Feb. 20 at 2 p.m. The program in-
cludes chorale preludes, a 
rumba, a tango and a multi-
movement tribute to Florida.
Harn Museum Writing 
Competition: Words on 
Canvas
Words on Canvas is a yearly 
writing competition at the 
Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art for college students interested in inspiring museumgoers by 
writing poetry or prose con-
nected with a work of art. All 
UF and Santa Fe College stu-dents are welcome to partici-pate. Winning contestants will 
be awarded Harn merchandise 
and students may submit un-
til Feb. 21. Entry is simple and free of charge. For more infor-mation, please visit our web-site at harn.ufl.edu/wordson-canvas.
Florida Museum Closed Feb. 22 
to Feb. 24The Florida Museum of Natural History, including the “Butterfly Rainforest” exhibit, will be closed Feb. 22 to Feb. 24 for preventive fumigation to protect its Lepidoptera col-lections and library resources. The museum will reopen Feb. 25. Please check flmnh.ufl.edu for more information.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to mgracehenley@alliga-tor.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, 
please submit the event be-
fore 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 100
HIGH  64° LOW  46°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Party platforms at a glance
• Identify and break down institutionalized racism, sexism and classism
• Proactively combat sexual assault on campus
• Increase diversity of students, staff and faculty
• Prioritize campus safety with Walk Safe and improving SNAP
• Refuse Student Government salaries and donate to low-income scholarships
• Fight voter suppression with online voting
• Provide additional mental health resources
• Expand healthy and vegan options on campus
• Lobby for fee waivers of graduate students
• Fight against tuition and fee hikes
• Implement tax relief for meal plans
• Subsidize feminine hygiene productsAccess
Impact
• Make UF a more inclusive environment for 
students from all backgrounds
• Expand education and resources to combat sexual assault
• Hire more mental health professionals on campus
• Initiate outreach program for recently admitted minority students
• Increase enrollment and retention rates for students of color• Increase resources for AIM program
• Start annual SG philanthropy event
• Lobby for Summer Bright Futures scholarship
• Lobby for fee relief for graduate students
• Increase number of student jobs
• Fight to prevent tuition hikes
• Reinstate subsidized Uber program
• Lower overhead charges on student fees
• Demand accountability of SG executives through a platform tracker
• Introduce Chik-Fil-A breakfast on campus
• Expand online and phone academic advising
• Bring poncho distribution across campus
• Designate consistent spaces for student 
dance teams
• Open parking at Southwest Recreation Center
• Bring Gatorade dispensers to campus gymsBy Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
In 1959, Bryant E. Middleton at-
tended the Florida School for Boys, a 
North Florida reform school.
Fifty-seven years later, he sat at 
a row of desks in UF’s Law School 
Chesterfield Smith Ceremonial 
Classroom, listening to a reporter and a professor shed light on the mysterious deaths and abuses that happened at his former school in Marianna, Florida. The school was later renamed the Arthur G. Dozier School for Boys.
“We did not have criminals at that 
school,” Middleton, 71, said. “There were no murderers. There were no rapists. Most of us were young chil-dren that were at the school. It was a terrible place.”
On Wednesday, UF’s Levin Col-
lege of Law school hosted “Death at Dozier: Unearthing, Remedying, and Preventing Human Tragedies,” 
a panel discussion of UF professors 
and experts who investigated the physical and sexual abuses and mys-terious deaths that occurred at the reform school.
The school opened in 1900 and 
was shut down after a federal inves-tigation in 2011.
Ben Montgomery, a Tampa Bay 
Times reporter, heard about Doz-ier’s story in 2008, when the state issued a plaque to honor the boys who were physically and sexually abused as consolation. The plaque caught Montgomery’s attention, he said. From there, he reached out to Erin Kimmerle, a University of South Florida anthropology professor.
For six years, they fought resis-
tance from the state to uncover the mysterious deaths of boys at the school. The state reported 31 bodies; Kimmerle found 50.Along with Kimmerle’s graduate 
students, they got to work, reaching out to families of the boys who had died there. Boys as young as six were used to manage crop fields. To date, she said seven bodies have been positively identified and returned to their families.
“It’s not something you can say, 
‘Well this is history,’” she said. “The 
past is really the present. It’s not just 
something from long ago.”
UF history associate professor 
Paul Ortiz said the culture of racism and corruption in the state allowed the atrocities at Dozier happen.
“There are many Doziers through-
out the American South,” Ortiz said, adding that it takes multiple perspec-
tives to explain systems like Dozier.UF law professor Darren Hutchin-
son said the constitutional rights that 
protects U.S. citizens from cruel and unusual punishment may have been broken. 
“Depending on how and when 
the boys died, the state could’ve vio-lated the boys’ Eighth Amendment rights,” Hutchinson said.
For Middleton, the fight for jus-
tice continues.
“You want to know you can do?” 
he told the audience. “Write your legislator, write the governor, ask for help. We did, and we’ve made great end strides to get things corrected.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016
By Felicia Solazzo
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Tim Tebow Foundation and a local 
church are giving Gainesville residents with special needs a royal experience this weekend.
The Grace at Fort Clarke United Methodist 
Church is holding the “Night to Shine” prom 
Friday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.
“(The Tim Tebow Foundation is) trans-
forming Valentine’s Day weekend to not just a 
weekend about love and each other, but about God’s love for people with special needs,” said Kristen Thompson, the marketing coordinator for the event.
In February 2015, the international prom 
night took place simultaneously at 44 church-es and celebrated more than 7,000 honored guests, according to its website.
Thompson said 105 guests are expected 
to attend the Gainesville event, which will be run with the help of up to 300 volunteers.
“The room is going to be decked out al-
most like a wedding,” she said. “I wouldn’t even say it’s a prom.”
Guests will arrive to welcoming fans and 
paparazzi on the red carpet, Thompson said, and volunteers will run a hair and nail station with shoeshine.Chuy’s is donating food for the dinner, she 
said.
Grace at Fort Clarke hosted the event last 
year, and Christa Tarantino, the church’s mission coordinator and a UF alumna, said members of the community donated makeup products, items for goodie bags and dresses for the guests.
“That’s the heart behind the event: to 
make these guests feel loved and honored, and show them God loves them,” Tarantino said. Local church holds prom for special-needs residents
Caitlin Ostroff/Alligator Staff
Erin Kimmerle, an anthropology professor at the University of South 
Florida, discusses the process of excavating bodies of former students of the Arthur G. Dozier School for Boys in front of 100 students at UF’s Levin College of Law on Wednesday.
Professors, experts discuss history
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
UF is bringing candidates to be 
the new vice president of Student 
Affairs to campus.
Dave Kratzer, the current vice 
president for Student Affairs, an-
nounced he will retire in June, UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando wrote in an email. Three candidates are being considered for the new posi-tion.
The three are Lori Reesor, the 
current vice president for Student Affairs at the University of North Dakota; Kent Porterfield, the cur-
rent vice president for student de-
velopment at St. Louis University; and Dave Parrott, the current ex-ecutive associate vice president for Student Affairs and chief of staff at Texas A&M University. All three are visiting UF this month.
Reesor came to UF on Wednes-
day to present why she should be 
considered for the role to about 
60 faculty members. She said she wants UF faculty to know about campus diversity and make faculty more accessible to students.
Reesor said her background as a 
teacher allows her to connect well with students and university fac-ulty.
“I’ve always taught,” she said. 
“That’s always been a really impor-tant part of my experience as well. It forces me to stay current.”
She said she wants to evaluate 
where Student Affairs is spending money.
“Unless we get more resources, 
we can’t just keep doing more with 
less,” Reesor said.
She said faculty should aim to 
be more inclusive of UF’s diverse students, who need to be treated 
with respect.
“Those microaggressions are 
happening in the classroom, so it’s 
our role in Student Affairs to help 
those students feel welcome and supported,” she said.
She said she wants to limit the 
number of faculty students need to contact when trying to find an-
swers.
“As the work 
has gotten more 
complex, we’ve 
become more 
narrow in our expertise,” Re-esor said.
She also said 
she wants stu-
dents to feel included at UF.
“Our job is to create an experi-
ence in where students fall in love with the institution, and they want to stay connected,” she said.
Sara Tanner, the director of 
marketing and communications for Student Affairs at UF, said she was excited to see all of the potential candidates for vice president in the coming weeks.
“There’s some big shoes to fill,” 
she said.
She said she wants the students 
to have the best possible leader as vice president.
“This is the best of the best that 
we’re bringing here to campus,” she said.
Porterfield’s open forum will be 
Feb. 22 from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. Par-rott’s open forum will be Feb. 24 from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. in Bryan Hall, Room 130.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.orgVP of Student Affairs 
candidate visits UFBy Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
It was Braddy vs. Poe at Wednes-
day’s mayoral debate.
Guests packed the Martin H. 
Levin Advocacy Center in the UF 
Levin College of Law, spilling into 
the jury box.Lauren Poe, Donald Shepherd and 
current Mayor Ed Braddy answered 
questions regarding Gainesville Re-gional Utility rates, the future of Gainesville and their personal lives.
All three candidates agreed that 
affordable power is more important 
than renewable energy.
While both are important, Braddy said, leaning toward renewable en-
ergy eliminates the affordability.
“There’s got to be balance,” he 
said.
During questions about GRU, 
moderator Marie Edinger had to re-mind Poe and Braddy not to interrupt each other. Shepherd became more 
vocal during a question on how to 
solve underage drinking.  
“My grandma always told me, 
‘Alcohol is the devil’s orange juice,’” he said.
He said underage drinkers are 
simply experimenting, and, as may-or, he would ask for the records of first-time offenders to be expunged. The candidates were also asked their stance on integrity and how they feel about being in the public eye.
All three have been criticized for 
various incidents, and all three stood up for their principles.
Andrew Romero, a 31-year-old Gainesville resident, said the candi-dates glossed over important issues.
“I felt like their answers weren’t 
particularly articulate,” he said.
Romero loves Gainesville, but he 
said there is room for improvement in local politics.
“Community, and building a 
stronger community, makes life more interesting,” he said. 
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.orgMayoral candidates debate plans to improve Gainesville
CAMPUS
Reesor
Discussions included GRU
“That’s the heart behind the event: 
to make these guests feel loved and 
honored, and show them God loves 
them.”
Christa T arantino
the church’s mission coordinatorTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Lauren Johnson
Alligator Contributing Writer
A secretary of state used algorithms to sup-
press Florida voters in 2012, Daniel Smith, a 
UF political science professor, said Tuesday night.
He said Kenneth Detzner, the current Flor-
ida secretary of state, helped single out legal citizens who were born outside the U.S. Let-ters were then sent to thousands of people, he said.
The message: Prove your citizenship or be 
removed from the voter registry.
During a presentation at Santa Fe College, 
Smith joined UF history associate professor Paul Ortiz to discuss similar issues of voter 
suppression in the past and present.
Santa Fe’s Democracy Commitment hosted 
the presentation in the Santa Fe Fine Arts Hall 
from 7 p.m. to about 9 p.m.
“In a perfect world I wouldn’t have to be 
up here to give a talk because voter suppres-sion would be a thing of the past, but history likes to repeat itself,” said Smith.
Ortiz said race, naturalization and citizen-
ship are still at the core of America’s voter suppression issue.
“When the concept of citizenship was ﬁ  rst 
articulated in the U.S., it was articulated on racial lines,” he said.
Along with one’s citizenship, the voting 
systems allows votes to be rejected for a va-riety of reasons.   
Smith said voters, especially minorities, 
who use an absentee ballot are more likely to have their vote rejected.
If the signature on an absentee ballot 
doesn’t match the signature on someone’s voter registration, the vote is rejected, Smith said.
“These are very subtle forms of disenfran-
chisement,” he said.
Using data collected from Alachua County 
absentee ballots in 2012, Smith found that a majority of the rejected votes correlated with 
signature misidentiﬁ  cation.
Young and old voters are the most likely 
to have their votes rejected from absentee bal-
lots, he said, because their signatures often change after registering to vote.
Stephanie Lima, a 21-year-old Sante Fe 
business sophomore, said she is shocked that absentee ballots are so unreliable.
“It was prettying mind-blowing,” she said.
Smith encouraged the audience of about 
50 people to arm themselves with knowledge 
and avoid voter suppression.
“You have to be proactive to be an in-
formed voter,” he said.Voter suppression still exists
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Zoe Wilson-Groark stood over a pile of col-
orful construction paper on Wednesday, a red marker in her hand.
The 20-year-old UF graphic design junior 
wrote a card in bubble letters as she listened to 
Shakespearean rhymes like, “Shall I compare 
thee to a summer’s day?” on Turlington Plaza. 
Shakespeare in the Park at UF belted out 
sonnets to students who wrote Valentine’s Day cards. The cards, covered in red hearts and en-couraging words, will be delivered to children at UF Health Shands Hospital on Sunday.
Wilson-Groark said she loved the idea, and 
was happy to write a card for a child.
“Oh, it’s right up my alley,” she said. “Any-
thing to make people feel good, man.”
Abigail Hummel, the president of Shake-
speare in the Park at UF, has been part of the group since her freshman year.
“My entire college experience can be 
summed up by Shakespeare in the Park,” the 21-year-old UF biology senior said. “I’ll be re-ally sad to leave.”She said the Valentine’s Day event is new 
this year.
“So many people have come and made 
cards, which is amazing to see,” she said.
Dileep Rajput, a 20-year-old UF computer 
engineering sophomore, said he joined the club this semester.
“They’re really open to beginners,” Rajput 
said. “I had barely any acting experience what-soever. I really enjoy the sense of community and the stuff I’ve learned from them.”
He said he plans to go to the hospital Sun-
day to help his friends hand out the cards.
“It’s really nice that you can use something 
like the arts to help people in need,” he said. “It really reafﬁ  rms your faith in humanity.”
Hummel said she hopes having people 
make cards on Turlington will promote the group.
“We get to get our name out there and do 
what we love to do, which is perform,” Hum-mel said. “And we get to help people while we do it.”
@mollyidonovan 
mdonovan@alligator.orgUF Shakespeare group to 
deliver cards to kids at Shands  The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
SG elections and 
the necessity to 
vote with integrity
“I never encountered, in state and federal politics, ac-
tivities as aggressive as at the University of Florida.” —Bob Graham, former U.S. senator and former gov-ernor of Florida
The adage goes that those who do not learn from 
history are doomed to repeat it. Here at UF, we seem to be stuck in an insidious Möbius strip of our own design: Every few years we or another publication write on a controversy regarding “the System.” Students and alumni, outraged by the corruption and undemocratic one-party rule of UF Student Government, vow to do something, anything, to change the way things are. Failing to mobilize en masse, the System works the way it is supposed to, and the Greek interests that have dominated SG for decades remain in power. Disenchanted and disillusioned students gradu-
ate, the name of the ruling party changes, and a brand new class 
of baby Gators matriculate to UF only to do it all over again.
For those of you who are unaware, the System is the name 
used to refer to the coalition of Greek houses, Florida Blue Key  and extracurricular organizations that, for decades, have suc-cessfully kept SG seats and positions in prominent organizations, such as SG Productions or Accent, and access to coveted funds among themselves. At this point in our university’s history, the System’s existence is a relatively noncontroversial open secret: 
Thesis papers have been written on it, and publications all over 
the state have reported on it for decades. If you don’t believe us, a cursory Google of “uf sg corrupt” or “ﬂ  orida blue key the system” should bring you up to speed.
Just as the Unite Party became the Swamp Party, the remark-
able ascension of outside challenger Access Party last Spring ne-cessitated yet another rebranding for System interests, this time in the guise of the Impact Party. We all know the details: Cam-paigning on a platform of disrupting gridlock in SG — gridlock 
in this case translating to actual debate in the Senate, rather than 
uniform rule — Impact successfully wrested power back and re-stored the natural order of things.
For argument’s sake, we’re willing to consider the possibil-
ity that maybe, just maybe, if the System acted with a degree of transparency or were willing to open up its ranks, we’d be more tolerant of their hegemonic aspirations. Unfortunately, the parties involved not only continue to deny the existence of the System, but actively work to suppress non-Greek voter mobiliza-
tion. As we have thoroughly covered over the last two weeks, it 
has been a years-long struggle to add online voting to SG elec-tions. If we may invoke DJ Khaled for a moment, they don’t want you to vote. From withholding meals to restricting party privi-leges unless their members bring in “I Voted” stickers, or even the obvious and simple-yet-effective method of stufﬁ  ng the party ticket with members who belong to Greek organizations, UF’s fraternities and sororities are far more effectual at mobilizing their constituency to go to the ballot box. This is no mistake, as it is 
their interests that are directly, well, at stake. Making the process 
easier for the other 90 percent of UF’s students by allowing online voting represents a grave threat to the System’s institutionaliza-tion, and they have fought tooth and nail to prevent it from hap-pening.
When you ﬁ  ll out the ballot boxes next Monday and Tuesday, 
we ask that you vote with your conscience, not by your organiza-tion’s allegiances, or because your friend urged you to vote one way or the other; democracy should serve the people, not just 
the privileged.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
To quote one of my favorite authors: “It 
is a truth universally acknowledged that when it comes to quality, the book is better than the movie.”
Alright, this is not exactly how Jane 
Austen originally wrote her famous opening line to “Pride and Prejudice,” but I feel sure she would’ve agreed with me.
It seems like this has always been a debat-
ed topic. Since we ﬁ  rst started transferring the written word to ﬁ  lm, people have argued and expounded on which version is better. Did the actors truly capture the voice of the character? Did the director really have to eliminate that scene? Why the heck did 
they pronounce his name like that?
It feels a little snobby to announce that the book is 
always better than the movie — all I need to complete 
the image is a fedora to wear or mustache to twirl in a patronizing way — but it’s also a majority opinion.
The news website Vocativ recently cross-analyzed 
Goodreads and IMDb to discover that 74 percent of the time when comparing books to their movie counter-parts, the book wins. Although this isn’t 100 percent, 
it is pretty telling, especially when one considers the 
sheer volume of both books and movies that are re-leased each year.
For the sake of comparison, let’s look at “Pride and 
Prejudice,” which has been adapted into ﬁ  lms (of all kinds) more than 13 times!
Some of these are better than others, and nobody 
seems impressed with the most recent version, “Pride and Prejudice and Zombies,” which is currently ﬂ  op-
ping like a detached zombie hand at the box ofﬁ  ce.
Other versions are more appreciated, competing not 
only with the book, but with other adaptations for the 
claim to be the deﬁ  nitive rendition of the story. Readers who swooned over Mr. Darcy on paper get to choose a real-life romantic interest from the line-up: Would you pick haughty, steamy Colin Firth from the 1995 BBC Miniseries, or is the awkwardly beautiful Matthew MacFayden from the 2005 remake more your style?
It makes me wonder what Austen herself 
might think of the adaptations. Many authors who’ve seen their books translated to the sil-
ver screen end up very unhappy with the re-
sults.
After the ﬁ  rst “Willy Wonka and the Choc-
olate Factory” movie, Roald Dahl refused to let producers near the book’s sequel, “Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator,” in his lifetime.
“Mary Poppins,” although one of my favorite child-
hood Disney ﬂ  icks, was hated by its author, P.L. Trav-ers. The story of her disapproval and subsequent feud 
with Disney became a movie called “Saving Mr. Banks” 
— which seems a little sad.
Perhaps it’s the sheer volume of movie adaptations 
and revisions out there that makes people return to the book as the tried and true favorite. The book holds the author’s original voice, intent and delivery, something that can never be copied by a movie, no matter how enticing the cinematography (I’m looking at you, “The Revenant.”)
Maybe you saw “Avatar: The Last Airbender” and 
decided you loved it, although you are probably the only one. It’s possible that after the ﬁ  fth Harry Potter movie, you decided to boycott the rest because of the way they butchered the Ministry of Magic scene.
Whichever side of this ouroboros-esque debate you 
stand, the only thing that ultimately matters is one’s own relationship to a story; we must accept that how we each feel about a character or a plotline can and will 
never be perfectly replicated.
But this could be a blessing in disguise. In a world 
where there’s a fresh new Mr. Darcy hitting the box 
ofﬁ  ce every year, it makes me happy to know that my version of Austen’s hottest, most society-defying love interest will always be only my own.
Sally Greider is a UF English and public relations 
junior. Her column usually appears on Wednesdays.Why is the book always better than the movie? 
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
For me, high school was not the envi-
ronment that movies and television shows painted it as. There were no 
jocks with letterman jackets sitting 
in the hallway during class, chatting 
it up with cheerleaders. Not once did I see a straight-A student mocked or ridiculed for 
being academically focused. Friday after-
noons lacked the aura of youthfulness and adolescent adventure that supposedly sur-round a rivalry football game that evening. Yes, we were all young, squinting as we desperately tried to see 
the future ahead of us, but I cannot help but feel that 
the culturally fabricated atmosphere of high school has been long gone.
For myself and many others, high school was not 
necessarily a time of personal growth, social develop-ment and intellectual exploration. It was pre-college, a relentless rat race, with the area’s “elite” scratching and clawing for an admission letter to a top college.
For some, that dream school was UF. For others, 
it was Harvard University. Regardless of the university being pursued, the carefree and expressive atmosphere of high school portrayed in ﬁ  lm was choked out and replaced by suffocating levels of competition among 
peers. Gone were the days of learning for learning’s 
sake and doing activities out of intrinsic motivation. In-stead, I was presented with four long years in a world where grade point averages were means of identiﬁ  ca-tion, college was the ﬁ  nal goal in life and community 
service was done less to help those in need and more so 
to have a fat number of hours on your transcript.
The college admissions process has become satu-
rated with overachieving students, all with sky-high 
GPA’s, impressive ACT scores and enough community 
service hours to build to ﬁ  ll several spreadsheets.
Thankfully, it appears that much-needed change 
is coming. Last month, Harvard released a heavily endorsed report aimed at redeﬁ  ning the admissions 
process. The actual report is rather concise, incredibly 
well-structured and easy to digest, given its sometimes complex ideas.
In general, the report has three main goals:
1. To promote “more meaningful contributions to 
others, community service and engagement with the 
public good.”
2. To assess “students’ ethical engagement and con-
tributions to others in ways that reﬂ  ect varying types of 
family and community contributions across race, cul-ture and class.”
3. To redeﬁ  ne “achievement in ways that 
both level the playing ﬁ  eld for economi-cally diverse students and reduce excessive 
achievement pressure.”
Long story short, it appears that Harvard 
wants to mold the admissions process into 
one that is accessible and holistic. It’s no 
longer a game of solely numbers (GPA, SAT, ACT, etc.), but instead a ﬁ  ght for the most 
interesting and thoughtful individuals.
Goal one sounds good in theory, but I’m afraid it 
will not be enough to change the landscape of com-munity service among high school students. By placing even more of an emphasis on serving the community, it is inevitable that a large sum of students will miss the 
philanthropic point of it all.
Goal two is abstract. It basically assesses “contribu-
tions to one’s family” and “students’ daily awareness of 
and contributions to others.” Are these elements of an applicant’s life really quantiﬁ  able? If anyone can ﬁ  nd 
a way to do such a thing, it’s Harvard, and if they do, 
then I suppose everybody wins. Until then, I remain skeptical.
Goal three is what I believe to be the most critical. 
The report’s recommendations hit the nail on the head, by “prioritizing quality — not quantity — of activi-ties,” being aware of “overloading on AP/IB courses” and aiming to reduce “test pressure.” Kids these days are put under unbearable amounts of pressure to out-
perform their peers on these standardized tests. Our 
country’s schooling years have turned into boot camp, a well-oiled machine with the only goal of preparing pupils to frantically bubble in letters for the sake of 
their future.
Take a moment to think about just how much of 
our lives will have been determined by No. 2 pencils 
ﬁ  lling in circles. From elementary school through col-lege, each successive step between these milestones 
is heavily determined by a single number, originating 
from a Scantron we ﬁ  lled out one day. A university of Harvard’s reputation taking some emphasis off of this is huge.
I may not agree with everything in the report, but as 
a former high-school student that struggled through the muck and mire of college admissions, I feel that this is certainly a step in the right direction.
Andrew Hall is a UF ﬁ  nance sophomore. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays.Reshaping the college admissions processColumn
America’s Found-ing Fathers have proven to 
be among the 
most inﬂ  uen-
tial people to have ever walked Earth. Several of 
the ideas and philosoph-
ical concepts that helped build this country more than 200 years ago remain appli-cable today. However, as vision-
ary as they might have been, not 
all parts of their original design stand the test of time. Like the Founding Fathers, the Electoral 
College needs to become a part of 
America’s history, not its reality.
The phrase goes, “If ain’t 
broke, don’t ﬁ  x it.” But the Elec-toral College is broken. In today’s 
times, the Electoral College sim-
ply doesn’t ﬁ  t. The problems with the Electoral College are readily apparent, and a majority of Amer-
icans believe it needs to be eradi-
cated. The problem is Americans only show their spirits for change toward the Electoral College when elections roll around.
Some political “experts” may 
argue that many Americans aren’t in favor of the Electoral College because they don’t understand it. 
This is an example of having two 
true statements with the wrong conclusion. It’s not that Ameri-cans disfavor the Electoral College because it’s confusing: Americans 
disfavor the Electoral College, 
AND it’s confusing. The average American should not have to pos-sess a nuanced understanding of 
delegates, superdelegates, prima-
ries, caucuses and how they all tie together. There’s an easier way. The winner of an election should be the winner of the popular vote.
To understand why the Elec-
toral College is esoteric, the ori-gins of the system must be un-derstood. The leaders of the U.S. 
government in the early 1800s did 
not have the resources to feasibly collect votes from every Ameri-can. 
There were no computers, 
telephones or other mediums of communication that make mod-ern elections possible. Because a large part of the population lived 
in rural areas, not all Americans 
even knew there was an election taking place. The same cannot be said about today. Whether people like it or not, elections can no lon-
ger go unnoticed.
A recent problem originating 
from the Electoral College was 
the close race between Sen. Ber-
nie Sanders, I-Vt., and former 
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in Iowa last week. In fact, the race was so close that six coin-toss tie-breakers were used to distribute 
delegates. Yes, ﬂ  ipping a coin. As NPR puts it: “Let’s 
say ﬁ  ve delegates are set to be awarded in 
Precinct 1. There are 
30 people for Clin-ton and 30 people for Sanders — and 
no one on either side 
can be swayed. The result: Clinton and 
Sanders get two delegates apiece. What happens to the ﬁ  nal dele-
gate? The caucuses revert to, you 
guessed it, a coin toss.” Although there is controversy over whether Hillary Clinton actually won all 
six coin tosses, the bottom line 
is there wouldn’t be a need for a quarter to decide election results if the U.S. decided elections by the popular vote.
The majority sees the Elector-
al College as a political process that needs to change. Accord-ing to a Gallup Poll in January 
2013, more than 60 percent of 
Americans support abolishing the Electoral College. This data may seem outdated, but it is the last time a legitimate poll was taken 
on the Electoral College, as it was 
the last time the U.S. was in elec-tion season. There will probably be another poll taken within the 
next 12 months that will also be 
forgotten about once this election race is over.
The idea of “one person, one 
vote” is a fundamental democrat-
ic principle that ought to hold true 
through the passage of time. The Electoral College tarnishes this principle when candidates are en-
ticed to win states, not votes, and 
the choice of Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders becomes a choice of heads or tails.
Americans should hold a strong 
and consistent debate about abol-ishing the Electoral College. Un-like other election issues such as campaign ﬁ  nancing, the Electoral 
College doesn’t draw party lines. 
The current process harms and beneﬁ  ts both sides of the aisle. Therefore, members of Congress will only forget about the idea of 
amending the Constitution to re-
form the Electoral College if con-stituents do.
As Americans wait for the 
blessed day when Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and Donald Trump are no longer part of their lives, they cannot forget the idea of reform-ing the election process. 
While having to listen to can-
didates like Trump may be a bur-den, having an equal vote and say regarding this country’s leaders is 
a foundational right.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF 
chemical engineering freshman. 
His column usually appears on Wednesdays.The Electoral College: a 
transient election topicColumn
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Green Day and Weezer tribute bands 
 They perform at High Dive on Friday, pg. 9. What’s Inside: 
Get ready for Wiz and K Camp tonight, pg. 10.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Wiz Khalifa, K Camp to perform at O’Connell Center
By Cassandra Velazquez
Avenue Writer
Wiz Khalifa, with the help of K Camp, 
is bringing the rap game to Gainesville in 
honor of Black History Month.
The two will perform Thursday at the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center. Doors will 
open at 6:30 p.m. for the 7:30 p.m. show.
Each performer will do a one-hour set, 
said Dillon Knox, the comptroller for Stu-
dent Government Productions.
Knox said, usually, SGP concerts are 
almost sold out or are entirely sold out the day of the performance. The concert, star-ring Wiz Khalifa, was sold out by Feb. 4, a week prior to the date of the event.
“A week before the event to be sold out 
is a very big feat,” Knox said. “It is some-thing we are proud of.”
SGP and Black History Month, a Black 
Student Union committee, partnered up to bring both artists to UF. The featured artists are chosen through a compromise between SGP and BHM, Knox said.
“We ended up being to work together 
to agree on Wiz Khalifa and K Camp as two people we would really want to bring that we thought the students would really enjoy,” Knox said.
This is not the ﬁ  rst time Wiz Khalifa 
and K Camp have collaborated. K Camp was featured on “Cabin Fever 3,” Wiz Khalifa’s mixtape, released via Sound-cloud. In 2015, Wiz Khalifa was nominat-
ed for multiple awards for his song “See 
You Again,” which was featured in the movie “Fast & Furious 7,” according to his website.
Chelsea Ogugua, the assistant director 
of BHM, said it is a tradition to have a mu-sical performance that features African-American artists. The concert usually has an opening act preceded by the headlin-
ing performer. Although Wiz Khalifa was not on the original list of possible opening 
acts, he is still very much a relevant artist, as exempliﬁ  ed through his new self-titled 
album, Ogugua said.
This concert is a part of a larger cam-
pus-wide celebration of Black History 
Month, with events throughout February.
“It is one of our most popular events 
because it’s a concert, and everyone loves music,” Ogugua said. “Everyone loves to go to concerts.”
Trisha Bernardin, an 18-year-old UF 
sociology freshman, said she is attending the concert and is excited to see K Camp perform.
K Camp’s sound is unique and has 
good energy, Bernardin said. He was pop-ular over the summer, and it reminds her of that time.
Tomisha Goater, a 21-year-old UF eco-
nomics sophomore, said she will be at-
tending the event and likes Wiz Khalifa’s 
songs, including the throwback “Roll Up.” She purchased a ticket for $10 and said that the price was reasonable with a stu-dent budget.
“I think it was really convenient, espe-
cially since he is such a popular artist,” Goater said.
Phillip Wells, 21, the president of the 
Black Student Union, said Wiz Khalifa and K Camp represent an effort to appeal to students and the community by bring-ing bring current, relevant artists.
“That’s why we have the opening art-
ist being K Camp; he is new and up-and-coming and we have Wiz Khalifa who has made his mark in the industry, and people know him,” Wells said.
He said the concert does not represent 
all of black history, yet serves as an im-portant symbol.
“It is black entertainment, which is 
very important to our culture and our his-torical signiﬁ  cance,” Wells said.
Wiz Khalifa will perform a one-hour set to 
a sold-out crowd at O’Dome tonight. Doors open at 6:30 p.m. for the 7:30 p.m. show. 
Courtesy to the AlligatorBy Kayla Ziadie
Avenue Writer
Gainesville is paying tribute to 
the ‘90s music scene this week-
end.
Green Day and Weezer tribute 
bands American Idiots and Weeze, respectively, are performing Fri-day at High Dive, located at 210 
SW Second Ave.
This will be Tampa-based 
American Idiots’ ﬁ  rst time playing 
a show in Gainesville. 
Green Day itself once played 
at High Dive in 1993, when the club was called The Covered Dish. They also played in Gainesville at the Hardback Cafe a few years 
prior. 
The four-man band started 
from lead vocalist Chris Friday’s 
idea of bringing Green Day’s live show to life from a fan perspec-
tive.
“I remember seeing Green Day 
live for the ﬁ  rst time at the USF 
Sun Dome,” Friday said. “I was 
freaking out; it was like I had 
something to believe in.”
The band tries to duplicate 
Green Day’s live performances as much as possible, doing anything 
they can to get the audience riled 
up and singing along. The mem-bers even dress similarly to Billy Joe Armstrong, Mike Dirnt, Tre 
Cool and Jason White. 
“Despite whatever BS is going 
on in everybody’s lives, we just 
want them to forget about it and give them something to believe 
in,” Friday said. 
“I want to make them feel 
what I felt when I ﬁ  rst saw (Green 
Day).”
Alec Pitts, Friday’s cousin and 
the bassist for the band, said the band tries to provide a Green Day experience for those who haven’t seen the band in concert, although he hasn’t had the chance to see them perform either.
“Obviously I can’t duplicate 
them as well as I would like to,” Pitts said. “I want to make peo-ple feel that they are listening to Green Day playing live.”
The rest of the band’s lineup 
includes drummer Don Young and his son, lead guitarist Anthony Young. 
American Idiots will be open-
ing for Gainesville-based Weeze on Friday.
The current lineup for Weeze 
consists of lead vocalist Niles Aus-
tin, drummer Kenneth Noble, gui-
tarist and vocalist Jonathon Mc-Cravy and bassist Jacob McCravy. 
The band formed about three 
years ago when Noble, a doctoral student at UF, put an ad on Craig-slist, looking for people to start a band.
“I met John and Jacob online 
when we were trying to start a band,” Noble said. “We searched out Niles on Craigslist as well.”
The band decided on perform-
ing Weezer tribute songs because 
of the members’ love for Weezer 
and because of their diverse fan base. 
Weeze has only ever played in 
Gainesville, its ﬁ  rst performance being at the now-closed 1982 Bar.
For Noble, Weezer has a wide 
range of songs that makes playing live fun, from the band’s slower 
ballads to its fast-paced, upbeat 
tunes.
“I was a huge fan (of Weezer) 
way back,” Noble said. “It gets 
nostalgic when we play some of 
their older songs since they’re what I listened to when I was younger.”
Like American Idiots with 
Green Day, Weeze tries to stick as close to the original sound of Weezer’s songs when the band performs live. 
Noble said they will mess 
around with different parts of songs, but they try to stay as true to the original sound.
“Introducing this awesome mu-
sic to people who haven’t really heard many of Weezer’s songs is a great thing,” Noble said. “We’re all about having fun.”
Noble said the band’s goal is to 
bring a piece of typical ‘90s rock music to 2016, since that music isn’t as popular nowadays.
“The Gainesville music scene 
isn’t as huge as it used to be,” Noble said. 
“It would be good to get more exposure and help bring more ex-citement over local music, espe-
cially with college kids.”
Similar to Weeze, American Id-
iots wants to introduce Green Day 
to those who don’t necessarily know of the band or who haven’t 
listened to Green Day’s music in a 
long time.
“We want the crowd to remem-
ber any good experience or mem-
ory they have associated with any 
certain Green Day song,” Friday said. “We want to help bring that back.”
Show doors open at 9 p.m. for 
the 10 p.m. show, and tickets are available for $8 at the door or $6 in advance on ticketﬂ  y.com. 
There is also a Valentine’s Day 
special in which couples will re-ceive two-for-one admission at door price.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Courtesy to the Alligator
American Idiots’ lead vocalist Chris Friday channels Billy 
Joe Armstrong’s looks and performance while on stage.  
LEFT:
Green Day tribute band American Idiots will rock out on Friday at High Dive to the band’s ‘90s hits. 
BELOW:
Weeze, a Weezer tribute band from Gainesville, will be headlining Friday’s show. Tickets are $6 on-line or $8 at the door. In celebration of Valentine’s Day, couples will get two-for-one tickets. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Green Day and Weezer tribute bands take over High Dive
MUSICAlbum: “Furious 7: Original Motion 
Picture Soundtrack”
While this song may be overplayed by 
now, you’ll most likely ﬁ  nd yourself sing-
ing along to “See You Again” at the show later.
Song: “Young, Wild & Free”Album: “Mac & Devin Go to High 
School”
By now this song is a throwback but a 
classic nonetheless. “Young, Wild & Free” 
is simply a feel-good song that’ll have you 
ready to go out any day of the week. 
Put this in rotation while you pregame 
the concert and get ready for a memorable 
night.
Song: “King of Everything”
Album: N/AWhile “King of Everything” never made 
it to a Wiz Khalifa project, chances are it’ll be played. Get familiar with the track be-fore you’re stuck not knowing the words later.
Song: “This Plane”
Album: “Deal or No Deal”
“This Plane” is a throwback from Wiz’s 
“Deal or No Deal” — which is an extreme-ly underrated album — but if it gets per-
formed, the O’Connell Center is sure to be 
rocking.
Song: “Black and Yellow”Album: “Rolling Papers”
You probably ﬁ  rst heard of Wiz Khalifa 
from “Black and Yellow,” so it wouldn’t come as a surprise if it gets played tonight.
Song: “No Sleep”Album: “Rolling Papers”
“No Sleep” is essentially the theme song 
for college. A song about partying all night and doing it all again the next day is what 
these four years are all about, right? Clas-
sic Wiz jam.Song: “Cameras”Album: “Rolling Papers”Another track off “Rolling Papers” 
shouldn’t surprise you; the album is abso-lutely perfect. If possible, listen to “Rolling Papers” in its entirety before the show. If not, these last three tracks will do.
Song: “We Dem Boyz”Album: “Blacc Hollywood”“We Dem Boyz” never fails to get me 
lit, so it’s a must-listen in preparation for 
the concert. 
Hearing the entire O’Dome singing along 
to this song is going to be life-changing.
Song: “Bake Sale”
Album: “Khalifa”“Bake Sale” was perhaps the most hyped 
song of the past few years in hip-hop. 
After a video snippet of Wiz and Travis 
Scott in the studio surfaced online about halfway through 2015, the entire hip-hop community couldn’t wait for the song to be released. 
After months of anticipation and a num-
ber of issues — with the beat that the song 
was originally recorded on being used by 
G-Eazy on “Order More” — “Bake Sale” was ﬁ  nally released. 
Travis Scott on the hook is a dope com-
bo with Wiz’s rapping. Get ready to rage when “Bake Sale” starts playing.
O’Dome doors open at 6:30 p.m. for the 
7:30 p.m. show. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016
Get Ready for T onight’s Wiz Khalifa and K Camp Show ff the Record
Jack DaSilva
Avenue WriterUF Student Government Produc-tions booked two very solid artists for its annual spring concert, in 
coordination with the Black Stu-
dent Union’s celebration of Black 
History Month.  This year UF SGP brings K Camp and Wiz Khalifa to the Stephen C. 
O’Connell Center in a sold-out event. 
K Camp
K Camp was a member of the XXL mag-
azine’s 2015 Freshman Class, and a year 
later he’s opening for Wiz Khalifa in the 
11,500-person O’Connell Center at the con-
cert. 
K Camp is one of those artists you won’t 
hear from for a while but then comes out 
of nowhere with a Billboard Hot 100 single 
that gets played all over the radio. 
I’ve rounded up some of his best work 
to get you ready for the concert today.
Song: “Comfortable”Album: “Only Way Is Up”“Comfortable” might be my favorite K 
Camp song, and I’ve had it on repeat for the past two weeks in preparation for his performance. 
“Comfortable” was on K Camp’s debut 
album, “Only Way Is Up,” and peaked at No. 54 on the Hot 100. Deﬁ  nitely looking forward to seeing this song live.
Song: “1Hunnid”Album: “Only Way Is Up”Originally released on his mixtape “One 
Way,” “1Hunnid” was later added to the 
“Only Way Is Up” album tracklist and 
rightfully so; the song is great. 
I like the original version better and 
honestly think Fetty Wap completely 
butchered the end of this song. At least we 
won’t have to hear Fetty’s verse live.
Song: “Slum Anthem”
Mixtape: “SlumLords”
While “Slum Anthem” never reached the charts, just about everyone knows this song. “Slum Anthem” will turn any party up and is sure to get the O’Dome lit.
Song: “Lil Bit”Album: “Only Way Is Up”To be honest, I never thought this song 
was all that great, but everyone else seems 
to love it, so I had to add it to the roundup.
 Don’t get me wrong, “Lil Bit” is dope 
—  I just think it’s overhyped. This song is 
sure to get played during K Camp’s set, so give it a listen.
Song: “Cut Her Off”Extended Play: “In Due Time”What is there not to love about this 
song? Just about everyone has someone in mind when this song comes on, which is why it’s so fun. 
“Cut Her Off” is K Camp’s most suc-
cessful single, having gone platinum. The 
O’Dome is going to go way up when “Cut 
Her Off” is performed.Wiz Khalifa
While we’re anticipating K Camp’s per-
formance, Wiz Khalifa is the headliner, so I rounded up some of Wiz’s best songs that 
should get you ready for the concert. 
Wiz Khalifa has six albums and 13 mix-
tapes released over the past 11 years, so 
rounding up all his good songs is nearly 
impossible. 
From “Deal or No Deal” to “Kush & Or-
ange Juice” to “Rolling Papers” and now 
“Khalifa,” the Taylor Gang Records found-er has made a ton of great songs and is 
guaranteed to put on a great show.
Song: “Ass Drop”
Album: “Blacc Hollywood”
“Ass Drop” is one of my favorite party 
songs ever and will make you get up and 
dance no matter where you are. 
Let’s hope this is on the setlist today.
Song: “See You Again”Dear Mediocre,
I don’t like my boy-
friend’s best friend. How do I get him to spend more time with me?
- Desperate Girlfriend
Dear Desperate Girl-
friend,
The bro code is a long-
lived tradition among men. Just like girls compliment each other’s nail beds, men like to spend ridicu-lous amounts of time together playing 
video games, talking about half-baked 
schemes to get rich and making fart noises with their armpits. It’s just their thing.
It sounds like you’re having a jeal-
ousy issue. If you can’t take a bro away from his bro, you have to get creative. Trick your mind into thinking that his best friend is your second boyfriend. I 
mean, what could be better than two 
boyfriends?
The ﬁ  rst thing I suggest is inserting 
yourself into their bro time. If they’re sitting on the couch together with less than an inch between them, you make that your spot. This will make both men feel special. If your main boyfriend, let’s call him your OG boy-
friend, raises a brow, just give him a 
little squeeze on the knee to let him know that he is still your number one.
The next thing I recommend is go-
ing out to the club with both men but never at the same time. That would be sketchy. Find out what boyfriend-number-two ﬁ  nds attrac-tive in a woman. Become her. If he likes curly hair, spend two hours in front of the mirror, and you get that 
curly hair. If he likes crop 
tops and cutoff shorts, you say a prayer and squeeze your butt into the shorts. Remember, this is about impressing! Make the sac-
riﬁ  ce!
Send little love notes to both boy-
friends. Make sure to alternate fake 
devotion toward both of their favorite 
sports teams, unless either is a ‘Nole. If that is the case, abort the mission and ﬁ  nd something else with your time — except studying. Studying never got anyone anywhere. At the end of the day, it should feel like and seem like you are dating both men.
With all of the effort you put into 
this, you should forget about all of that animosity you have for your boy-friend’s best friend, aka boyfriend-number-two. Now you’ve got the best of both worlds: OG bae and your sidepiece. It’s more than likely you will no longer have to compete for OG boyfriend’s time. If anything, he’ll be ﬁ  ghting for yours.
Congratulations, you broke the bro 
code.
Au revoir,Mediocre
Send your questions to mediocre.al-
ligator.advice@gmail.com.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016
By Kelsey Bona
Avenue Writer
The Coen brothers’ newest feature 
“Hail, Caesar!” opened in theaters last 
weekend, and if box ofﬁ  ce numbers are 
any indication, audiences gave it a big 
“Hail, no!” With the lowest turnout ever of the siblings’ career, the comedy only raked in about $11.4 million in spite of its 
recent critical acclaim. Perhaps it’s because 
many of the advertisements didn’t map out a clear plot. Spoiler: There is no clear plot.
Although it isn’t a biopic, “Hail, Cae-
sar!” emulates real-life Eddie Mannix, a 
studio executive who worked to cover up 
scandals in the golden age of Hollywood. Played by Josh Brolin in the ﬁ  lm, the char-acter must keep the kidnapping of major 
movie star Baird Whitlock (George Cloo-
ney) and the unplanned pregnancy of ac-tress DeeAnna Moran (Scarlett Johansson) out of the press. Meddling twin journalists Thora and Thessaly Thacker (both Tilda 
Swinton) fail to make this an easy task. 
There are also dancing sailors, a hopeless country star hired to act in a period drama and a whole lot of communism.
While all this may sound amusing and 
ambitious, the reality of it falls ﬂ  at and jumbles together to make for a confusing experience. The Coens typically strive for nonconformity in their ﬁ  lmmaking, but 
this time they threw that aside in favor of 
a different goal: senselessness. The story lines differ and stray too much, only to come to a sloppy resolve. Most of the char-acters seem completely calm about their situations, especially Whitlock, who is al-
most eager to remain a hostage. As well 
as having no sense of conﬂ  ict, there’s also no sense of humor, save a few bits remi-niscent of Abbott and Costello. Even as far as absurdist humor goes, the tone of the 
movie just isn’t quite there.
Perhaps most frustrating is the unmet 
expectation that some grand social com-
mentary is going to be made. The entire 
ﬁ  lm is very meta, given it’s a movie about 
making movies with an anti-Hollywood agenda. The ﬁ  ctional studio it portrays is even called Capitol Pictures, while the little guys ﬁ  ghting against it are openly commu-
nist. It’s straightforward, but it doesn’t go 
deep enough. The Cold War setting marked the perfect historical point to expose the nastier parts of Hollywood, but it was in-
stead used for a few laughs before it was 
just shrugged off. What’s a satire without a purpose?
Simply looking at it as a period piece, 
“Hail, Caesar!” is a fun watch. The old-
time Hollywood aesthetic is done well, 
right down to the accents and costumes. The directing and cinematography are on par with the rest of the Coen brothers’ 
ﬁ  lms, and it’s refreshing to see the two 
tackle a more lighthearted endeavor. How-ever, while fans of the duo may be able to overlook the narrative ﬂ  aws, general audi-ences won’t.
If anything, support the ﬁ  lm’s vague 
intentions and don’t contribute to the ﬁ  lm industry — just wait until it’s on Netﬂ  ix.Coen brothers' ‘Hail, 
Caesar!’ gets a ‘Hail, no!'
FILM
MEDIOCRE ADVICE
Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
Planning your Valentine’s Day 2016
Congratulations, 
you have a Valentine! No matter if it’s a familiar face or 
a new ﬂ  ame, it’s hard not to take advantage of the holiday and be a little more lovey-dovey with your che-rie amour than usual. As anti-consumerist as you may be, admit it: You’re kind of excited. This Valentine’s Day, skip TGI Fridays and ﬁ  nd some fun, uncon-ventional plans to do with your Valentine. Here are a few sugges-tions on making this year’s V-Day a little less cheesy and a little more memorable.
- Katherine Dagand
- Katherine Dagand
If y’all like the outdoors:
 Grab some Pub subs and have 
a picnic at Lake Alice, Lake Wauburg or anywhere with some grass. Watch out for squir-
rels!
 Go on a hike around Paynes Prairie or Devil’s Millhopper and hydrate with some Hyppo pops after. Have a barbecue or a bon-ﬁ  re. End the night with some s’mores.
If ya’ll like the indoors:
 Head to BuzzFeed or Tasty and ﬁ  nd some yummy dishes to make together. Play bartender and create some cool cocktails; add a drink-ing game, and you’re in for a fun night. Make them a scavenger hunt 
of little things they like around 
your apartment. You’ve heard of Netﬂ  ix and chill, but have you ever heard of Netﬂ  ix and pillow fort?If y’all think it’s great 
to be a Florida Gator:
 Head to the Florida vs. Ala-bama basketball game Saturday 
and cheer on the Orange and 
Blue. Support the arts! UF’s School of Theatre and Dance is having its “Dance 2016: Worlds Apart” concert in the Black Box Theatre in the Nadine M. McGuire The-atre and Dance Pavilion. Go to the Wiz Khalifa concert 
today, because you waited in line 
for an hour and you deserve it. Spend Valentine’s eve at the Florida Museum of Natural His-tory and play some trivia; the winning team gets a prize! Watch the UF Carillon in its “Sunday Afternoon Concert Se-ries” at 3 p.m. by Century Tow-
er. Blankets are encouraged.
 Study at your favorite library or coffee shop because you both have midterms coming up and plan on celebrating next week-end. (Bonus: Surprise your Val-entine with his or her favorite snack.)
If y’all like downtown:
 Go old-school with your s/o and head to Barcade for a friend-ly arcade tournament. The loser buys the next round of drinks. Watch a show! The Hippo-drome State Theatre is present-ing "The Vagina Monologues" this weekend. Have a gameboard showdown 
at Maude’s Classic Cafe with 
some wine, coffee or both. Go to the bars you’ve never gone to, like Whiskey House or 2nd Street Speakeasy. Get to The Top early so you can ﬁ  nally get to have dinner and drinks without waiting two hours.
If y’all like Midtown:
 Why would you go to Midtown for Valentine’s Day?If y’all like adventures 
and road trips:
 Watch the sunset at Cedar Key. Walk around the Castillo de San Marcos in St. Augustine.
 Head to the Daytona Beach 
Boardwalk and have some cot-ton candy. Go for some laser tag at Adven-ture Landing in Jacksonville.  
If y’all are in an LDR 
(I feel your pain):
 Order each other a meal and 
watch a movie together in bed.
 Play a virtual drinking game! Play a relationship question-naire, and for every wrong an-swer, you drink. Find a restaurant with Wi-Fi and go for dinner! It’s not like you don’t use your phone while you’re out for dinner anyway.
 Send them movie tickets, a gift 
card or an itinerary for a rain-check V-Day.Plan a surprise visit!
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
FUNDS FROM THE SHOW GO 
TO SUPPORT WOMEN 
By Erica Pope
Avenue Writer
This Valentine’s Day, “The Vagina 
Monologues” returns to the Hippodrome 
State Theatre for a fourth year with the goal of raising funds to support women.
The play, originally written by Eve En-
sler, debuts at 7:00 p.m. Sunday  and will show again Feb. 19 at 7 p.m. and Feb. 20 at 12:30 p.m., according to the event page.
The play features monologues based off 
of interviews from over 200 women with differing backgrounds.
Tickets for the show are $32. Admission 
price includes hors d’oeuvres, a complimen-tary drink and entry to the Women’s Voices Art Installation at the theater 30 minutes be-fore the show, according to the event page. 
The production is set to support Wild Iris 
Books and Peaceful Paths, a state-certiﬁ  ed shelter serving adults and children of do-mestic violence.
Theresa Beachy, the executive director 
of Peaceful Paths, said the play’s production teamed up with the organization four years ago and has become an annual event.
“It’s a great way for people to come out 
and experience Eve Ensler’s work and at the same time support a great cause,” she said.
Beachy said she believes myths exist 
about domestic violence, which hinder the cause of trying to help victims. She said it’s an ongoing process of educating the public of how often domestic violence occurs.
“Domestic violence continues to be a 
huge issue in our community,” she said. “We see it, unfortunately, all the time in ev-ery area of our community.”Erica Merrell is an activist and co-owner 
of Wild Iris Books, which she said was the only feminist bookstore in Florida. Merrell said she believes a female or someone per-ceived female has violence inﬂ  icted on her differently than a male.
Conversations about violence toward 
women need to happen because of its prev-alence in society. Merrell said the “Vagina Monologues” played a vital role in creating an open dialogue about controversial issues.
“No one was saying ‘vagina’ back then,” 
she said. “People weren’t doing that. There were not the advances in gay marriage.”
Merrell said the play broke the rules of 
society at the time and gave people a voice. The signiﬁ  cance of the play lies in the writer’s choice of content and the language used.
“I think vaginas are important,” Merrell 
said. “And I also think they are awesome, and fun and cool. They do all these amaz-ing, amazing things.”
She said she is supportive of any event 
that “takes people’s voices out of the si-lence.”
Alyssa Zucker, a doctorate of psychol-
ogy and a UF associate professor, said many factors contribute to violence against wom-en. Zucker, a Vada A. Yeomans Chair of Women’s Studies at UF, said coming from an abusive home and lacking coping skills are major risk factors for the continuation of violence on women.
Merrell said creating a space for women 
to have a voice is a big step in ending the violence against women.
“The only way that we’re going to really 
be able to affect change is if we stop shame, and blame and all those things, and really stand up against people who violate other people’s human dignity,” she said.‘The Vagina Monologues’ 
returns to GNV on Sunday
By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
As he sits in a hotel room in Greens-
boro, North Carolina, actor John Dun-
sworth seems worlds apart from the drunk he plays on TV.
Dunsworth, 69, is arguably best-known 
for his role as Jim Lahey in the Netﬂ  ix se-ries “Trailer Park Boys,” but you wouldn’t know it from talking to the guy.
“I don’t drink, and I’m heterosexual, 
and I don’t own a trailer park — so it would be hard for me to say,” he said.
But on camera and, recently, on stage, 
Dunsworth devolves into the fall-down-
drunk trailer park manager many have 
come to love for the past nine seasons of the show.
In May, the show’s highly awaited 10th 
season will air, Dunsworth said.
But when the aviator sunglasses come 
on and the liquor comes out, Mr. Lahey will stand alone — knees wobbling.
“He’s drunk on his own power as much 
as he is on the alcohol,” Dunsworth said.
Lahey and his large-gutted friend Ran-
dy (Patrick Roach) will come down to Gainesville on Wednesday and perform at High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave.
Tickets, which are available on tick-
etﬂ  y.com, run $20 to $40 for what Dun-sworth calls “a potpourri of song, skit, audience participation and ridiculosity.”
Doors open at 9 p.m. for the 10 p.m. 
show, according to the event’s Facebook page.
Trailer Park Boys began with a quaint, 
low-budget movie called “One Last Shot.”“This was around 1997 when I played 
Jim Lahey, a drunk pet-store owner,” 
Dunsworth said. 
“Mike (Clattenburg) asked me to play 
the character — the same basic character 
— for the Trailer Park Boys.”
Dunsworth credits the success of the 
show, which is now available in about 190 countries, with its non-presuming nature. “A lot of television you see, people are do-ing parodies,” Dunsworth said.
 “We appear to be real people. It 
doesn’t seem like we’re parodying people; it seems like we’re real.”
Dunsworth said fans often confuse his 
persona with his true self.
“I can’t say that there’s any overlap be-
tween me and him and him and me,” he said. 
“I mean, we look the same. We wear 
the same size clothes.”
Often, fans greet him with offers of free 
liquor or drinking wagers.
“I can drink you under the table, La-
hey,” one fan said to him.
“I bet you can, too,” he replied, “be-
cause two beers would make me drunk.”
Dunsworth never could have imagined 
“Trailer Park Boys” would reach cult-clas-
sic levels. He said there was no way to 
predict that.
For now, he’ll take it a day at a time.“I’m 69 years old, and life is very rich 
for me,” he said. “I have wonderful fam-
ily, and wonderful friends and a great ca-
reer going.”
“I think I’m one of the luckiest shit ap-
ples that ever lived,” he said.High Dive to host ‘Trailer 
Park Boys’ on WednesdayBy Lauren Fernandez
Avenue Writer
Tom Hart’s novel about his de-
ceased daughter ranked No. 1 on 
The New York Times’ best-sellers 
list of hardcover graphic books for 
the week of Jan. 31. 
Now, the author and cartoon-
ist will discuss “Rosalie Lightning” 
during a studio talk Feb. 18.
The free event will begin at 5 
p.m. at Home Work, located at 
528 N. Main St. 
It will include a presentation 
from Hart as well as a question-and-answer forum.
Home Work is a coworking stu-
dio for freelance and remote work-
ers in the creative industry.
“The reason why we’re doing 
the studio talks is to get the people 
who are interested in the talks to come and see the space and to cre-
ate interest in it from people who 
may want to rent the space,” Edith Williams, the owner of Home Work, said.
The space is open to creators 
of all art ﬁ  elds, including graphic design, photography, ﬁ  lmmaking, 
web development, web design and 
writers, Williams said. 
Creators have the option to 
pay a full-time or part-time fee to 
use the facilities, which they have 
24/7 access to, she said. 
Hart said his studio talk at 
Home Work will discuss his 
new book and his Gainesville art school, which delves into the process of creating comics, also known as sequential art.
“It’ll be about how I used the 
art form, sequential art, and how it has helped me to survive and thrive as a person and an artist,” 
Hart said, “and also how we’ve 
turned it into a place where young students can learn the same.”
Williams said the atmosphere 
created at Home Work is what 
draws creators in.
“Most of the people that are there are there not so much be-
cause they need a workspace, but because they need a community of people to work with, and that real-
ly enhances their work,” she said.
Local graphic designer Shawna 
Mansﬁ  eld is looking forward to 
hearing Hart speak.
“I’m thrilled that Edith has 
begun to have these talks here in Gainesville,” Mansﬁ  eld said. “They provide a casual, stress-free 
way to engage with other creative-
ly curious people within our own community.”She sees the talks at Home 
Work as mini creative-boost ses-
sions.
“Getting to see and understand 
any creative person’s process, 
whatever the medium, is always a treat,” Mansﬁ  eld said. “It encour-
ages insightful analysis of my own 
creative processes.”
Hart’s career began in 1993 
when he was published through a 
grant for new cartoonists.
“I’ve been publishing small 
comics, big graphic novels and 
comic strips pretty much ever since,” Hart said.
After teaching at the School of 
Visual Arts in New York City for 10 years, Hart decided to move to Gainesville with his wife and cre-
ate the Sequential Artists Work-
shop in 2011, he said.  
The workshop is located at 710 
SE Second St. 
“It’s very much a sort of pop-up 
art school for people who want to learn the art form,” he said. “Most importantly, it’s affordable. Our space isn’t so great, but the teach-
ing experience is very intense and powerful. I call it a guerrilla school 
sometimes.”
In 2011, the year Hart and his 
wife moved to Gainesville and opened the school, they faced the untimely death of their daughter Rosalie, which became the topic 
of his novel.
Hart wrote about his family’s 
loss in his graphic memoir, which 
was released about three weeks 
ago, he said. 
“I’m going to talk about how I 
came to create that book but also 
how a career in comics for twenty 
years laid the groundwork to cre-ate that book,” Hart said.
Gainesville is a great place for 
creators who are just starting out 
because the cost of living is lower 
than places like New York, Hart said.
“It’s easier to be a young artist, 
and that’s what you need, I think, when you start out,” he said. 
“A place where you’re not too 
stressed out by day-to-day life so that you can explore your art form 
a little bit. That’s a very important 
part,” Hart said. Local author discusses NYT best-seller ‘Rosalie Lightning’
LOCALHe will talk at Home Work Thursday
“Getting to see and 
understand any creative 
person’s process, whatever the 
medium, is always a treat. It 
encourages insightful analysis 
of my own creative processes.”
Shawna Mansfield
local graphic designerTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
House For Rent in NW Gainesville, close to 
UF. $1250 per month 1600 sqft. 3BD/2BA, Large Kitchen, dining, living room, Den. W/D hookup. Fenced in yard. For more informa-tion & pictures Call or text 352-222-0838.   2-11-16-10-2 
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15 
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-1297 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Designated drivers are the greatest
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp pro-gram. For a complete listing of positions visit www.oakhall.org/summercamp. Interview process begins February 20.   2-19-16-11-14
National NPO
P/T position for social media posting, web 
content management -hours flexible. Email: 
noscarson@tna-support.org    2-12-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
HEALTHCARE is "Out of Control".
Be part of the solution. $50 off until Mar 
30.  Pomo code "2016":  www.rxcut.biz/
RXN00173    2-16-4-20Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
UF women's basketball player 
Simone Westbrook has helped Florida win three straight games.Read the story on pg. 18.UF BASEBALL OPENS ITS 
SEASON NEXT FRIDAY.
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan hasn’t been im-
pressed with his team lately.
Though Florida’s talented baseball team 
is ranked No. 1 in all the preseason polls, 
O’Sullivan said Wednesday that the last couple practices haven’t been special.
“They weren’t for whatever reason,” he 
said. “It’s hard for a coach to leave prac-tice and feel good about both offensively and defensively because either pitching dominates or the hitting gets the best of the pitching.”
It could be the preseason jitters many 
players may have with less than 10 days until first pitch.
It could be the enormous expectations 
placed on his team.
Either way, O’Sullivan said he couldn’t 
pinpoint the reason for the mediocre prac-tices.
He has, however, sent a message to his 
team.
“I keep harping to them the idea of ‘win 
or bust’ or ‘win at all costs’ is ridiculous,” O’Sullivan said. “You can’t go into any-
thing with that type of mentality. If you do, 
obviously you’re going to end up on the losing side of things.”
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida golfers win SEC weekly awards
Florida freshman Sam Horsfield and sophomore T aylor T omlinson both won 
SEC Player of the Week awards, the league announced on Wednesday.Florida outfield coming into focus as season approaches
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Buddy Reed dives to catch a ball in the outfield during Florida's win against T exas A&M in the 2015 NCAA Regionals.
By Brian Lee
Sports Writer 
It’s something that only one 
other program has accomplished 
in NCAA softball history.
It is unexpected, elusive and 
extraordinary: a three-peat. 
A third consecutive national 
title makes a champion tran-scend the other great teams of the past, turning it into a dy-nasty.
Only UCLA has achieved this 
feat when it was crowned cham-pions in 1988, 1989 and 1990. 
While Arizona experienced 
a run of excellence in the mid-
1990s, winning four champion-
ships in five years, it wasn’t able to win three uninterrupted. 
In 2016, the UF softball team will not only be competing against stiff competition in the Southeastern Conference and across the country — it will be 
challenging history. 
Come Friday, Kelsey Stewart, 
Aubree Munro, Taylor Schwarz, 
Taylore Fuller and Kirsti Merritt will embark on their final cam-paign as the Gators begin play in 
the USF Wilson-DeMarini Tour-
nament in Tampa. 
For Florida’s five seniors, the 
upcoming season presents an 
opportunity to go down as one of 
the greatest classes the program has seen. 
From their first season three 
years ago, the quintet has played 
a crucial role in Florida’s suc-
cess. 
“We played… all five of the seniors their freshman year,” 
coach Tim Walton said. 
“We leaned on them pretty 
early.”
This was especially evident 
on June 1, 2013. 
In the second round of the 
Women’s College World Series, 
Florida battled Nebraska for 15 innings in a grueling game that 
Florida won by a final score of 
9-8. 
The five freshmen who had 
produced all season continued to play at a high level when the 
lights were brightest. 
“The biggest one was prob-
ably the Nebraska game,” Wal-
ton said.  
“Every one of them had a part 
in that. What could have been a loss … ended up being a victory. 
“I think that was really when 
you started to notice how much Softball seniors looking to cement legacy
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Athletics and activism go 
hand in hand.
For Florida gymnastics, this 
certainly holds true.
Every year since 2007, the 
Gators’ have hosted an an-nual Link to Pink meet at the 
O’Connell Center as part of a 
Southeastern Conference ini-tiative to raise breast cancer awareness.
Decked in pink, both home 
and away teams take the mat clad in custom-made leotards, abandoning team color schemes in a showing of solidarity with 
both victims and survivors.For the Gators, these contests 
have been nothing short of a 
glowing success. 
Averaging 7,589 fans across 
nine editions of the event, Flor-ida has yet to lose at a pinked-out O’Dome.
It will aim to continue that 
streak this Friday, as No. 9 Ar-kansas is set to make the trek from Fayetteville to take the Gators head-on.
But, for Florida’s gymnasts, 
the meet presents much more than an opportunity to bounce back from a disappointing loss 
at Georgia last week.
“Link to Pink is a lot more 
than just putting on a leotard Link to Pink meet holds 
special meaning for UFSEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 19
SEE GYM,  PAGE 19 SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 19UF will try to three-peatGYMNASTICSTHE JUNIOR HAS LED THE 
GATORS TO BACK-TO-BACK WINS 
OVER RANKED OPPONENTS.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
As the third quarter came to a close during 
Florida’s win over Texas A&M last Thursday, 
junior Simone Westbrook lined up the period’s 
last shot. 
Rather than finding someone else open or 
passing the ball and trying to get open herself, 
she faked right and cut back left, leaving her 
defender lunging at open air.
Having created separation, she put up her 
signature no-spin shot from NBA range as the 
buzzer sounded. 
Swish. 
Her basket triggered an eruption from the 
crowd, and after an emphatic first-pump, she 
was swarmed by her teammates.
It also triggered deja vu — Westbrook made 
a buzzer-beating shot to end the third quarter in Florida’s win over Kentucky on Jan. 31. 
“It felt comfortable. Whether or not I do 
it in practice seriously or not, I do ‘em. I like those situations,” Westbrook said of practicing 
buzzer beaters.
“It felt good.”
That confidence has paid dividends for 
Westbrook and the team as of late. In UF’s 
last three games — all wins — Westbrook has 
scored in double figures, and many of those points came at crucial times.
Against Texas A&M, her final points of the 
game — which came on a shot clock-beating 
floater — turned out to be decisive.
But despite her recent success, Westbrook 
has been prone to inconsistency on offense for much of the season. 
She’s shown the potential to take over a 
game from the beginning, but earlier in the season, she went through cold stretches.
While streaks in sports are normal — 
whether hot or cold — head coach Amanda 
Butler feels that Westbrook’s offensive ceiling has increased over the past few weeks.
“I just think she’s been getting in the gym 
and getting shots up. There’s just no substitute 
for that, no matter how much belief you have 
in yourself or confidence that your coaches or teammates try to share with you,” Butler said. 
“Simone has really done that the past cou-ple days and the past couple weeks.”
While Westbrook has produced on offense 
as of late, she’s produced on defense all season 
long.
She leads the team and is second in the con-
ference in steals, racking up 2.4 per game.
That’s helped UF secure the SEC’s most 
steals per game, with 13.
“I like to get into the offensive players, get 
in their way, get into ‘em, really pressure them 
offensively and I like to challenge myself to see how many tips I can get a game,” Westbrook 
said of her defensive efforts. 
Aside from effort, Butler credits West-
brook’s defensive prowess to her natural 
quickness. 
“We say that she’s got ninja hands, you 
know?” Butler said. “She’s just really, really fast and does a great job of getting tips and making plays.”
Tonight, when the No. 16 Gators travel to 
Columbia, South Carolina, to take on the No. 2 Gamecocks at 7 p.m., they’ll need Westbrook to be a contributor on both ends of the floor once again to pull off the upset. 
The Gamecocks are big and physical, with 
many of their points coming from down low. Defending two players who are 6-foot-4 or tall-er won’t be easy for UF, which has only one regular contributor who measures 6-foot-4. 
Instead, the Gators will rely on the anticipa-
tion and quickness of Westbrook and others to shut down the potent South Carolina offense and pull off the upset.
“They’re going to get their points,” sopho-
more forward Haley Lorenzen said of defend-ing the Gamecocks, “but we want to make sure that they earn them.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016
Scott Parker / Alligator 
Simone Westbrook attempts a three-point shot during Florida’s win against Kentucky 
on Jan. 31 in the O’Connell Center.
AP Photo
Oklahoma City Thunder head coach Billy Donovan, left, chats with Russell Westbrook on Jan. 27 in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
By Graham Hack
Sports Writer
While the Golden State Warriors 
and San Antonio Spurs have domi-
nated headlines in the Western Con-
ference, Billy Donovan’s Oklahoma 
City Thunder are flying under the radar.
Led by forward Kevin Durant 
and guard Russell Westbrook, OKC has won 13 of its last 15 games, with its only losses coming on the road at Golden State and in Brook-
lyn against the Nets.
Donovan has let his stars take 
the bulk of the workload, with Du-
rant ranking third in the league with 
27.8 points per game and West-
brook ranking second with 10 as-sists per game.
At 39-14, the team sits in third 
place in the conference, nine games back of the Warriors and 5.5 games 
behind the Spurs.
Beal starting in limited fash-
ion: Wizards guard Bradley Beal is 
finally back in the starting lineup, but he likely won’t be logging heavy 
minutes for the rest of the season.After being sidelined for 16 
games with a fibula injury and re-turning to the Washington bench 
to play sparingly, the fourth-year 
guard made his first start of the new year on Friday night, playing 32 minutes and scoring 22 points 
against the Philadelphia 76ers.
After coming off the bench the 
next day against the Charlotte Hor-
nets, Beal played another 32 min-utes in his next start against the New York Knicks on Tuesday, scor-
ing 26 points in a win.
According to the Washington 
Post, Beal said he expects to play 
roughly 30 minutes per game for 
the rest of this year as the Wizards 
take precautions to avoid overwork-ing him.
When the team plays back-to-
back contests, Beal said he might play a different role and see even fewer minutes.
Parsons back in form: Despite 
the Dallas Mavericks’ struggles late-ly — the team is 29-26 overall with seven losses in its last 11 games — forward Chandler Parsons has found his groove again.While Parsons is only averaging 
12.6 points per game this year after struggling earlier in the season, he is averaging nearly 19.2 points over 
his last 10 contests.
According to the Dallas Morning 
News, Parsons said he is as healthy 
as he has been all year and feels like he is playing the best basketball of 
his career.
Horford trade rumors: After 
spending his entire nine-year career 
in Atlanta, Hawks center Al Horford  
could be on the move, according to Kevin Arnovitz and Brian Wind-horst of ESPN.com.
Horford is rumored to be a trade 
target of the Boston Celtics, who are 
very interested in the 6-foot-10 for-
mer all-star, according to multiple reports.
The center is averaging just over 
15 points a game this season as well as nearly 7 rebounds per game — numbers on par or slightly below what he averaged during the past few years.
Horford is in the last year of his 
current contract and will become a free agent at the end of the season.
@graham_hack24
ghack@alligator.orgDonovan’s Thunder rank third in WestWestbrook wreaking havoc on both ends of court for UF
GATORS IN THE NBA
The coach is 39-14 so farwe were gonna rely on those, at 
the time freshman, and now se-niors.” 
Although the 2013 team’s title 
hopes were dashed the following day in a 3-0 loss to Texas, the young talent on the team was evident. 
Now, as the Gators prepare 
to kick off the 2016 season, the group has compiled an impres-sive list of personal accolades to 
complement a pair of national 
championships. 
The most notable is Stewart, 
the 2015 SEC Player of the Year 
who has also been a member of the U.S. National Team since 
2014. 
If Florida is to continue its re-
cent run of success and cement its legacy as a dynasty, its five 
seniors will have to be catalysts. 
@brianlee_17
blee@alligator.organd going to compete for the 
Gator Nation,” senior Bridgette Caquatto said. “We’re compet-ing for a cause bigger than our-
selves and bigger than the Gator 
Nation. We love putting on pink leotards and there’s a lot more fans there.
“Really, the survivors are 
what help us get through the meet and everything.”
One of those survivors is 
more than just a courageous 
backstory.
When Florida storms through 
the Gator Head at 6:45 p.m., 
Mickie Spicer will be among the throng of survivors flanking the 
team.
Mother of former gymnast 
and four-time NACGC Scholas-
tic All-American Rachel Spicer, 
Mickie was diagnosed with, 
underwent treatment for and overcame Stage 3 breast can-cer during the heart of Florida’s 2015 National Championship-
winning campaign.
The saga is still fresh in the 
minds of Florida’s athletes, 
many of whom were close to Rachel and stood by her side throughout the ordeal.
“I’m pretty close to Spice, 
and I was able to comfort her a 
little bit during the struggle of 
her mom going through breast cancer last year,” Caquatto said. “It really hits a lot of our team-mates close to home. We all 
have loved ones that have been 
through breast cancer.”
With a common rallying 
point, the Gators are poised to 
rebound, motivated by their for-
mer peer’s toughness in the face of adversity.
“Spice was one of my biggest 
mentors last year as a senior,” 
sophomore Alex McMurtry 
said, “and she showed extreme strength — and so did her mom through the whole battle.
"I’m so excited to see them 
this weekend. Her mom goes all out with the pink wig. We’re go-ing to be wearing pink for her, and it’s just a time for the Gator 
team and the Gator Nation to 
show our support for breast can-cer (awareness).”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
Stewart was the 2015 SEC Player of the Year Former Florida 
gymnast's mother 
overcame breast cancer
Reed, Larson to anchor outfield Alligator File Photo
Kelsey Stewart throws to first base during Florida's win against North Florida on April 1, 2015, at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Bridgette Caquatto performs her floor routine during Florida's win against Alabama on Jan. 29 in the O'Connell Center. 
Despite the negative sentiment, O’Sullivan said 
one side of the ball that has stayed consistent 
throughout practices has been the Gators’ defense, especially in the outfield.
“I think it all starts in the middle of the field with 
obviously Buddy Reed,” O’Sullivan said.
It’s hard not to mention Reed when taking a look 
at Florida’s outfielders.
The 6-foot-4 speedster has the length to run down 
balls in the gap, over his head or in front of him in center field.
Highlight reel plays became standard last year for 
the junior from Finksburg, Maryland.
Reed’s abilities also made life in the outfield eas-
ier for UF’s corner outfielders last season. Just ask junior Ryan Larson, who started in right field for most of the year.
“I kind of say, ‘Buddy, you take what you want. 
If you’re feeling tired I’ll grab the other stuff,’” he said.
But while Larson doesn’t have the defensive gifts 
Reed has, he’s no slouch.
O’Sullivan said he trusts the experienced Larson 
— who will play in left field this season — to read fly balls and handle some of the problems that come with playing in left, like the way the sun sets over McKethan Stadium.
“It’s a tough angle, but having him there, it 
makes you feel good,” O’Sullivan said.
In right field, O’Sullivan has options.Sophomore lefty Jeremy Vasquez figures to see a 
bulk of the action early, and O’Sullivan said fresh-
men Danny Reyes and Nelson Maldonado have 
swung the bat well in scrimmages.
For Vasquez, who hit .339 in 2015, defense has 
been his biggest focus heading into the season.
“Obviously in right field, just try to get my arm 
stronger, take (the) best routes that I can and that’s basically what I’ve been working on this whole year,” he said.
Vasquez, along with UF’s other outfielders, know 
this outfield has a chance to be a solid and con-sistent group this year, just as O’Sullivan has wit-nessed thus far.
“I don’t want to say that we’re going to be the 
best in the nation, but I think we’re gonna be a pret-ty good outfield,” Vasquez said.
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgGYM,  from pg 17SOFTBALL,  from pg 17
BASEBALL,  from pg 1720   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2016
NCAA TOURNAMENT 
HOPEFULS IN THE SEC
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Postseason Hopes
UF’s Kasey Hill (0) looks to pass the ball during the Gators’ win against the Rebels on Tues-
day in the O’Connell Center. Florida has seven games remaining before tournament play.With one month until the start 
of the NCAA Tournament, ﬁ  ve 
Southeastern Conference teams 
are beginning to separate them-selves from the rest of the pack 
in hopes of earning a tourney bid in March. Here’s a look at the SEC teams with the best chances of making the cut, with their coach’s postseason experience at their respective schools and each team’s leading scorer.
All teams are ranked by RPI (Rating Per-
centage Index), a measurement that com-bines wins, losses and strength of schedule 
to help the NCAA Selection Committee de-
termine which teams are qualiﬁ  ed for the tournament.
No. 22 Kentucky (18-6, 8-3 SEC), RPI: 15
 Coach John Calipari. At UK: One NIT First Round 
appearance, two Final Fours, one Elite Eight, one Runner-up, one NCAA Championship.
 Jamal Murray, guard: 18.5 pts, 4.8 reb, 2.3 ast
No. 15 Texas A&M (18-5, 7-3 SEC), RPI: 19
 Coach Billy Kennedy. At Texas A&M: One NIT Second Round appearance.
 Jalen Jones, guard/forward: 16.0 pts, 5.6 reb, 0.8 ast
Florida (16-8, 7-4 SEC), RPI: 23
 Coach Mike White. First year at Florida.
 Dorian Finney-Smith, forward: 15.5 pts, 8.1 reb, 2.1 ast
South Carolina (20-3, 7-3 SEC), RPI: 28
 Coach Frank Martin. At South Carolina: No postseason tournament appearances.
 Michael Carrera, forward: 14.1 pts, 7.2 reb, 1.4 ast
 Louisiana State (15-8, 8-2 SEC), RPI: 76
 Coach Johnny Jones. At LSU: One NIT second round appearance, One NCAA ﬁ  rst round appearance.
 Ben Simmons, forward: 19.4 pts, 12.3 reb, 5.0 ast
