We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 148 THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016
Florida begins NCAA Regional play
UF faces Alabama State on Friday, pg. 18
Santa Fe student named ﬁ  nalist in contest
The contest is for modeling with horses, pg. 8
Depot Park ahead of schedule
The park is set for a soft opening Aug. 1, pg. 9Man hits student: surveillance video
Watch the video at alligator.org
Man hits student: surveillance video
THE UF STUDENT WAS PUNCHED 
BY AN UNIDENTIFIED ST. PETERS-
BURG MAN.
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
St. Petersburg Police are searching for the man 
who repeatedly punched a UF student.
Zachary Taylor will now take medical leave 
from a Summer class after an unknown man 
attacked him at the Del Mar Gastro Lounge, he 
wrote in an email. 
Taylor is a 22-year-old computer science and 
engineering senior, said Paul Bernard, a promo-
tional copywriter at UF. 
On May 7 at about 1:30 a.m., Taylor waited in 
line for the restroom when a man tried to move forward, according to a press release. 
The man wanted his girlfriend to take Taylor’s 
spot, he wrote. 
“I was scared and worried why he was being so aggressive since I did not think it was unrea-sonable to tell him to have his girlfriend wait in line after me,” Taylor wrote. 
The man then hit Taylor twice and ran, said 
Yolanda Fernandez, the spokeswoman for the police department. 
“Initially that night when we arrived, the 
crowd kind of pointed out one man, but it wasn’t him,” Fernandez said. 
She said a St. Petersburg hospital helped Tay-
lor before he traveled to Gainesville and received further treatment. 
“First of all, there’s no reason to punch some-
one over an argument over a bathroom line,” Fer-nandez said. 
The attack, Taylor wrote, left him with a se-
vere headache and sore body, along with a frac-tured skull, wrist and ear canal. 
“I hope that I can press charges, and he is 
dealt with appropriately,” he wrote. 
@saradmarino 
smarino@alligator.org Unknown man hits student
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Contributing Writer
In a lawsuit between Florida 
A&M University and a university student, Florida public universities have signed a brief in support of the university’s position that Student 
Government at the university level is 
“not real Florida government.”
Justin Bruno won FAMU’s Stu-
dent Body election race for presi-dent, but after election violation complaints were ﬁ  led, the Student Supreme Court ruled to hold a re-
election. The university’s president 
upheld the decision.
The Tallahassee Democrat re-
ported Bruno accused the president of meddling in student elections, and he’s suing the university’s Board of Trustees to stop the re-election. In the claim, Bruno argues that his right 
to argue against the election viola-tions weren’t met.
FAMU ﬁ  led a response on April 
12 arguing that a student’s partici-pation in extracurricular activities, 
such as SG, is a privilege, not a con-stitutional right.
A Leon County circuit court judge 
ruled only to hold an election at FAMU’s law school, where the elec-tion violations were alleged to have taken place.
On April 22, an amicus brief, or supporting brief, was ﬁ  led on behalf of the other 11 state universities in Florida.
All 12 Florida public universities’ 
Boards of Trustees are claiming that SG at the university level is a “learn-ing laboratory” for students, and the judicial court systems “should not become the superintendent of extra-curricular student affairs.”
***The supporting brief refers to SG 
as “mock democracies” and “stu-dent-run mock governments.”
Clay Calvert, the director of the Marion B. Brechner First Amend-ment Project, said universities sign-ing onto the brief means they have an interest in the outcome.
He said the universities are look-
ing to have the case dismissed by ﬁ  l-ing the supporting brief. Calvert said 
the universities referring to SG as 
anything but a Florida government is demeaning to the students in SG.
“This brief is making that as-
sertion on behalf of these Board of Trustees,” he said. “They’re saying that Student Government is all fake.  UF supports suit claiming SG is “not real Florida government”Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff 
PASTRY-OTIC
Ashley Chavez-Rubert, 23, serves cake at the Celebrate USA event at Santa 
Fe College on Tuesday afternoon, organized by the Multicultural Student Center. The event invited students to learn about different cultures of the U.S.
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Staff Writer
Transgender students in 
public schools must now be al-
lowed to use whichever bath-room aligns with their chosen gender identity, or internal 
sense of gender.
A school receiving federal 
money must comply with Title 
IX of the Education Amend-ments of 1972, as underlined in a joint guidance released Fri-day by the U.S. Departments of Education and Justice.
As explicitly stated in the 
guidance, “A school must not treat a transgender student dif-ferently from the way it treats other students of the same gen-der identity.”
In a statement, UF spokes-
woman Janine Sikes said UF’s policies are consistent with the guidance. She said UF prohib-
its discrimination on the basis 
of gender identity.
Anyone wanting privacy 
may use separate, single-unit bathroom facilities on campus, Sikes said.
The government issued the 
guidance shortly after North Carolina restricted public bath-
rooms and locker rooms for 
transgender people, leading to a court ﬁ  ght with the federal government.
“States need to catch up 
and realize that the source of the problem is beyond the bathrooms,” said LB Hannahs, the director of LGBT Affairs at UF.
Hannahs said the contro-
versy over bathrooms is based off of fear and ignorance of transgender people.
“Education about transgen-
dered people is low,” Hannahs said. “Politically, people say it’s for safety concerns, but there’s been no data to support 
that.” 
mandrade@alligator.org Federal guidance on bathrooms
The irst lawsuit began at FAMU
SEE GOV,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.HIGH  87° LOW  68°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters will 
host an open house with refresh-
ments Tuesday at the regular 5:45 p.m. meeting. The event will be 
in UF’s Entomology Building, 
1881 Natural Area Dr., Room 1031, Gainesville. Learn about 
Toastmasters’ program of public 
speaking and leadership achieve-ment. For details, go to: talking-
gators.toastmastersclubs.org or 
the Talking Gators Facebook group page. “The mission of 
Toastmasters is to provide a mu-
tually supportive and positive learning experience in which ev-
ery member has the opportunity 
to develop communication and leadership skills, which in turn 
foster self-confidence and per-
sonal growth.”
GatorNights
GatorNights will host an 
“Allegiant” themed event based on the “Divergent” series Friday 
from 8 p.m. to 12 a.m. at the 
Reitz Union. The event will fea-ture an oxygen bar, a Climb-n-Challenge course, Dauntless cup-cakes and flash tattoos. The event will also feature two showings of the movie “Allegiant” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Free bowling and 
pool tables will also be a part of this GatorNights event. The event 
is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current students to participate or 
registered for future Summer B or 
Fall classes. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgettenberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
New penis recipient looks for-
ward to being a ‘complete’ man 
BOSTON (AP) — The recipient 
of the nation’s first penis trans-plant says he is looking forward 
to walking out of the hospital a 
“complete” man.“There is no doubt in my mind 
that everything is going to 
work. And I mean everything,” 64-year-old Thomas Manning 
said Wednesday with a grin as he 
continued to recover at Boston’s Massachusetts General Hospital. 
“You can interpret that any way you wish.”
Seated by a window overlooking the Charles River, Manning was 
upbeat and chatty after under-
going the 15-hour operation last week.
The former Halifax, 
Massachusetts, bank courier whose organ was amputated af-
ter he was diagnosed with penile 
cancer in 2012 has been ambling around his room with a walker 
and said he doesn’t feel any pain.
He has taken a few peeks under the gauze covering his new pe-
nis, which was taken from a de-
ceased donor, and the swelling and discoloration appear to be 
diminishing. He said he believes 
the nerves are even starting to re-connect.
“I just can feel like movement 
and life in it already,” Manning said. “I feel that we belong to-
gether.”
Manning is just the third man in the world to receive a new penis, 
following transplants in South 
Africa in 2014 and China in 2005.
The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Emma Green, egreen@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome, Kaelah Scheff  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Joseph Fitzgerald, Britney Jenkins, 
  Jessica Lennon, Caroline Rhoades, 
  Matthews Silva. Donovan Vazquez  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 148
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
RETREATGAINESVILLE.COM | 352-372-6535
1404 W UNIVERSITY AVE STE 10  LEASE FOR AS LOW 
AS $599/MO
®
come and see why life is better in a cottageWelcome  to 
    the University 
              of Florida
2-6 Bedroom Luxury Cottages
RESORT STYLE POOL | EXTENSIVE FITNESS FACILITY | PRIVATE SHUTTLE  
FREE PARKING  | INTERNET & CABLE | OUTDOOR GRILLING  
SELF-SERVE STARBUCKS COFFEE | TANNING  | HOT TUB & SAUNA  
COMPUTER LOUNGE | GROUP STUDY ROOMS   | CYBER CAFE  
 BEACH VOLLEYBALL | GAMING ROOMS
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016
And that’s it.”
***UF SG’s approximately $20-million 
budget is the highest of all the universi-
ties who signed the brief.  
Student Body President Susan 
Webster, who sits on the UF Board of 
Trustees, declined to comment about 
the brief and about her role in SG. Stu-dent Body Vice President Brendon “BJ” Jonassaint and Student Body Treasurer Kishan Patel also declined to comment.
Last year, the salaries of the Student 
Body president, vice president and trea-surer totaled $28,000, funded by the SG budget, according to Alligator archives.
***UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said 
UF stands by FAMU’s position.
“Any decision affecting FAMU could 
potentially affect the University of Flor-ida as well,” Sikes said.
Since Fall 2014, Preston Jones has 
been a part of UF’s SG, and he has spent about 10 to 15 hours per week outside of Senate committee meetings, working on issues and legislation.
But even before he stands up to ar-gue against or for resolutions, bills or nominations, the 20-year-old political science sophomore knows he’s lost be-fore he’s out of his chair.
“It’s a lesson of the realities of poli-
tics where he who has the power is go-ing to use it, and if you get left out of 
that group, a lot of times you end up 
not having your voice heard,” Jones said.
***On May 9, another supporting brief 
was ﬁ  led, disagreeing with the universi-ties’ claim.
Sabrina Philipp, 22, who started the 
Not My System movement back in Feb-
ruary, signed on the brief.
“I just take issue with the whole no-
tion that Student Government isn’t real, 
because I think that implies that UF’s $21 million budget and the Student Body president’s salary is paid with pa-per money,” the political science senior said.
In the brief, more than 20 parties 
argue the multi-million budgets con-trolled by SGs at the universities prove the entities aren’t comparable to other extracurricular activities or student or-ganizations. GOV,  from pg 1Eleven FL colleges agree
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Umesh Sankuratri said pro-
spective students who were in-
volved in past criminal activity should still be considered for ad-mission to higher education.
“I think with time people 
change,” the 23-year-old electri-cal and computer engineering masters graduate said. “It doesn’t mean that a person is the same as 
he was ten years back.”
On May 9, Secretary of Edu-
cation John King sent a letter to 
America’s colleges and universi-ties and asked them to remove questions about criminal history from early stages of the admis-sions process.
“Allowing these Americans 
to achieve success by providing access to quality education and training opportunities is wise criminal justice policy, smart economics, and a critically im-portant investment in our fu-ture,” King wrote. 
Requiring criminal justice in-
formation on applications can deter potentially well-qualiﬁ  ed applicants from completing the admission process, according to the U.S. Department of Education website.  
In its Beyond the Box Resource 
Guide, the department recom-mends alternative options, such as delaying the request for crimi-nal justice involvement until after an admission decision, or giving the prospective student a chance to explain his or her history and readiness for high education. 
Chris Loschiavo, the associate 
dean of students at UF, said the university has a section for crimi-nal activity on its admission ap-plication — as it should.  
“I don’t think that having any 
criminal history should neces-sarily completely ban someone from enrolling at the University of Florida,” Loschiavo said, “but I do think there are some crimes that do warrant us to take a sec-ond look to determine whether or not that person is a good ﬁ  t for our community.”
Some actions are too moderate 
for consideration, and the Ofﬁ  ce of Admissions may clear students with certain criminal histories, he said. 
However, Loschiavo said, 
anything that involves health or safety concerns, such as driving under the inﬂ  uence, sexual of-fences and weapons offences, are referred to his ofﬁ  ce.
The university would then 
ask the applicant for court docu-ments, police reports and other paperwork for Loschiavo and his ofﬁ  ce to review.
Loschiavo said he can clear or 
deny the applicant, or he can re-fer them to his threat assessment team.
When students lie about their 
histories, they may face disci-plinary action or, if they are en-rolled, their admissions can be revoked, he said.
Law enforcement ofﬁ  cials, 
counselors, psychiatrists, the dean of student’s ofﬁ  ce, legal counsel and other groups com-prise the threat assessment team, which can ultimately decide whether someone is admitted.
“They will determine based 
on that student’s prior behavior, do we believe that they could potentially pose a current threat to members of our community?” Loschiavo said.  
@saradmarino 
smarino@alligator.org
 College and criminal historiesTECHNICIANS LOOK FOR 
DEFORMITIES, CHANGES 
OR DEFECTS IN THE DOGS’ 
EYE LIDS.
By Kathleen Hyatt
Alligator Contributing Writer
As part of an American College 
of Veterinary Ophthalmologists’ 
event, the UF Small Animal Hospi-
tal will provide free eye exams to certiﬁ  ed therapy and service dogs 
Friday.
Of the near 30 dogs the hos-
pital is expecting, there will be three University Police explosive 
detection dogs, several UF Shands Hospital therapy dogs, six search 
and rescue dogs and numerous in-
dependently owned service dogs. 
Holly Kitchen, an ophthalmolo-
gy technician who will give exams Friday, said she will look for any deformities, changes or defects 
in the dogs’ eye lids, corneas and 
retinas. 
“We give them a full work-up 
to make sure that there’s no prob-lem with their eyes,” she said. “That way they can do the best 
they can at what they’ve been 
trained to do.”
Sgt. Ellen Duffy said she plans 
to take Amber, her 4-year-old yel-low lab, to Friday’s exams. 
Amber often sweeps the UF 
football stadium and basketball arena as an explosive detection dog for UPD, Duffy said. 
“The dog represents a huge re-source,” said Duffy, who is Am-ber’s handler. “We make sure that they’re in tip-top health, including 
their eyesight.”
She said the hospital takes 
great care of Amber and the de-partment’s other dogs during their 
regular checkups. 
Kitchen said the event is re-
warding for everyone involved. 
“It feels really awesome doing 
this,” she said. “We’re beneﬁ  ting 
those animals who selﬂ  essly care 
for their owners.” THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
 Service dogs to receive eye exams
Courtesy to the Alligator
Sgt. Ellen Duffy poses with her 
4-year-old labrador, Amber, one of the dogs expected to receive a free exam during the Ameri-can College of Veterinary Oph-thalmologists’ National Service Dog Eye Exam event at the UF Small Animal Hospital.
“W e give them a full work-
up to make sure that there’s 
no problem with their eyes. 
That way they can do the best 
they can at what they’ve been 
trained to do.”
Holly Kitchen
ophthalmology technicianThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTHURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
Hear ye, hear ye, dear readers. We’re already nearing the 
end of our second week of the semester. How does time pass 
so quickly? Are we to learn that the Earth is rotating on its axis at faster rates? Is the very fabric of spacetime in jeopardy as the possibility of a Mein Drumpf presidency becomes ever-more plausible? No matter: We invite you to take solace and pleasure in our latest segment of…
Darts & Laurels
Let’s get right down to business: “Captain America: 
Civil War.” If you haven’t seen the movie yet, stop liv-
ing in the real world and being “productive,” and let your 
imagination run wild for a few hours. “Civil War” is a true 
roller coaster; it embodies everything you could want from a Marvel Studios superhero-action ﬁ  lm. However, the plot of the ﬁ  lm is really not beﬁ  tting of the title “Civil War.”
Despite the marketing emphasis on #TeamIronMan ver-
sus #TeamCap, the movie felt more like a follow-up of “The Avengers” and “Captain America: The Winter Soldier” sto-rylines. Even in the climactic airport brawl scene the trailers highlighted, most of the heroes were barely engaged in the 
ﬁ  ght. Heroes here were saying, “We’re still friends right?” 
Heroes over there were apologizing after giving each other a few boo-boos.
Don’t get us wrong: This movie was fantastic. Just don’t 
expect a true war between these ﬁ  ghters, which is why we give a dart to the second half of the movie’s title. One 
more accurate would be “Captain America: Civil Dispute,” or perhaps, “Captain America: Mom and Dad Argue Over Thanksgiving Dinner.”
On the upside, we give a shining laurel to Spider-Man  
and Black Panther. From Panther’s vendetta that wove 
in and out of the Avengers’ conﬂ  ict to Spidey’s laughable childishness amidst the tensions between Iron Man and 
Cap, these B-side characters completely stole the show. For 
those who may feel disheartened with the direction of “The Avengers” ﬁ  lms, these two new characters show a lot of promise.
On a non-superhero note, we want to give a laurel to 
comedian Larry Wilmore and President Barack Obama  
for their epic performances at the White House Corre-spondents Dinner. Obama and Wilmore gave a number of roasts and jokes on a wide range of issues, including head 
media ﬁ  gures seated in the very same room.
Wilmore’s remarks were so hot, such as his reference to 
CNN’s Don Lemon as “alleged journalist Don Lemon,” he’s 
now resurfaced in the media, even two-and-a-half weeks af-ter the dinner. According to a recent Mediaite report, Lemon 
had personally invited Wilmore to appear on air with him 
on May 4 to discuss Wilmore’s ﬁ  nal words to Obama, “Yo Barry, you did it, my n—gga,” and general politics.
However, a CNN producer supposedly canceled Wilm-
ore’s appearance in order to provide more coverage of the May 3 Indiana primaries. Perhaps CNN really did need to prioritize more Donald Tru — uh, election — coverage. Or maybe CNN didn’t want a repeat of when former “The Daily Show” host Jon Stewart appeared on CNN’s “Crossﬁ  re” in 
2004 and called CNN out for “hurting America” by being 
“partisan hacks” right to their faces.
Regardless, we give a laurel to Lemon for being a 
good sport and to Wilmore, again, for reinserting some 
healthy doses of harsh satire and a bit of truth into our 
political discourse, even if the media didn’t really pick up on it.Be aware, bicyclists: Pedestrians need space
People have a lot to be aware of on a 
monthly basis. The lists of May go on to include older Americans, healthy vision and ultraviolet light. However, the most perplexing phenomenon to dedicate an 
entire month to isn’t about a disease or demo-graphic: May is National Bike Month.
Bicycles were invented in the 1800s to pro-
vide an alternative mode of transportation to horses, when the original names for bicycles were “running machine” and “dandy horse.” Although still used as a mode of transportation for us troubled youngsters who can’t afford cars yet, advocates of cycling have taken what once functioned only as a mode of trans-portation into its own culture. It’s hard to imagine the in-ventors of bicycles ever envisioned them ridden by people in tight, padded shorts. Although cyclists may be mocked for their uniforms and enthusiasm, there’s no problem with people sharing enjoyment in a leisure activity that promotes healthy lifestyles, and it is no more unusual than adults chasing a ball around.
Then again, a problem does arise in the mentality of 
bicyclists across all ages and experience levels. Many pa-trons of bicycles have the mindset that it is cyclists ver-sus non-cyclists, especially when riding on the road. This may have been justiﬁ  ed years ago, somewhat, when it was much more dangerous for cyclists to ride in cities, but hundreds of millions of dollars have been spent annually this past decade to raise awareness for bicycle safety.
According to a study from Rutgers and Virginia Tech, 
the total number of bike trips has tripled from 1977 to 2009, but fatalities per 10 million bike trips fell by 65 percent. So drivers’ mentalities have changed over the years while cyclists’ haven’t, which is why awareness campaigns need to shift attention away from just cyclists and toward a new idea: cyclists’ awareness of others on the road.
Brash bikers is a problem plaguing the entire country, but this column primarily seeks change here in Gainesville. I’m talking about the punks who ride their bikes on the sidewalks at 25 mph downhill or peddle through pedestrians on their way to class. It’s understandable for bicy-clists to want to ride on the sidewalk in cities to avoid being hit, but why do bicyclists here ﬁ  nd it necessary to weave through crowds at the Reitz Union Lawn and on Turlington Plaza when the bike lanes that are 30 feet away func-
tion perfectly? 
I’m no expert in physics, but if bicycles still abide by 
the laws of motion, a bicycle speeding down Stadium Road will not brake quickly enough for a pedestrian in a crosswalk. This may come as a shock to some, but pe-destrians have the right of way as long as they’re in the crosswalks. If nothing is done, there will unfortunately come a day when a bicycle going 25 mph hits a pedestrian crossing the street. Mentalities need to change so that day never comes.
The complex, in-depth analysis on the breaking point, 
where a cyclist enjoying a little exercise becomes a men-ace on two wheels, is summarized best by a quote from Slate Magazine: “It’s not because I’m on a bike — I’m an asshole on the road no matter what.” Pedestrians would probably break the law just as often if it weren’t for the fact they would probably lose going up against a moving car or bike. 
As bicycles are unaware of others around them, cars 
run red lights and pedestrians jaywalk. The common fac-tor behind these modes of transportation is people them-selves. The people of Gainesville are better than this. Leave Florida’s reputation of poor road safety and incon-sideration of others to places like Miami. 
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical engineering sopho-
more. His column appears on Thursdays.
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgSeeking:
Top talent in X ﬁ  eld. 
Are you a motivated in-
dividual with the ability to work independently in 
a growing company with a fast-paced environment? We’re seeking an extraordinary new graduate to join our dynamic team of innova-tive leaders in X.
Qualiﬁ  cations:Master’s degrees in computer engineering, 
ﬁ  nance, hospitality and neuroscience; mini-mum of ﬁ  ve years industry experience with 
at least three in project management and be 
CCNA/80085-certiﬁ  ed; ambidexterity and na-tive ﬂ  uency in Spanish and Urdu strongly pre-ferred; salary commensurate with experience; starting wages: $11.50 an hour.
Why are you interested in this position?Since I was a child, I have always held a 
fascination for business analytics and data mining.
I searched “entry level” on Google, and 
your particular job posting popped up and caught my dwindling willpower and attention just long enough for me to submit my lies.
Do you believe that stealing is wrong?What is the point of this question? To see if 
I’m actually reading these hopelessly long oc-cupational questionnaires? No, by Jove, I am a kleptomaniac, and I will steal your grand-
mother’s heart monitor in addition to your 
corporate secrets. Yes, stealing is wrong, ex-cept in those morally obscure situations we’ve all discussed in our freshman ethics class, but that’s not the answer you want. I’m here to give you whatever you want because I’ll sell my soul and spit on the corpses of my dreams for the chance that you won’t crush my last hope at eking out a meager existence.
Why do you want to work for X?Dynamic, stimulating, ethical, opportunity 
for growth, 401(k), innovative, Fortune 500…
I’m facing impending homelessness. I’ve 
raised, killed and resurrected enough dreams to build a new nation of fool’s gold for the poor. I’m down to my last disillusion. I don’t give a fuck about the bigger picture anymore.
Why should we hire you?I want to showcase my skills 
and prove to us both that 19 years 
of school, stress and student debt 
were not in vain. I will use my nat-ural leadership abilities and consid-erable experience with software de-velopment and social networking to establish myself in the company 
and contribute to overall proﬁ  tability.
Please, for the love of God in a godless girl, 
please don’t shoot at my feet and make me 
dance and lick your boots at the same time. I 
just want a job to satisfy my sanity and self-worth because that’s the vicious, ironic cycle we must all perpetuate. If I were strong, I could wave two choice ﬁ  ngers at society and not give a damn about its whimsical stan-dards, but as it stands, I’m just another sheep made more tame by hunger and frigid immi-grant parents.
I just want a job to realize my selﬁ  sh 
dreams of living debt-free in daytime sobri-ety. I’m already jaded of my paltry existence to which only a mediocre future can follow. So hire me, and I’ll work my ass off so you can take your mistress to Miami Beach for the weekend while your wife spills Franzia inside your Mercedes-Benz E-Class, and I can pre-tend I didn’t waste my parents’ money and 
keep living a lie. Anything is better than being 
a disappointment.
Maybe you can come to my wedding when 
I mutually settle with someone equally lonely, and we’ll all pretend life has meaning so we have something to tell our children when they hurl those timeless words back in our faces, that they never asked to be born, and so we’ll propagate and procreate and proliferate be-
cause we’re all the same.
There is no stellar candidate. You will re-
ject thousands of faceless resumes and splin-
ter the hearts of many who are better than you. We are all slaves and stardust. Every man dies alone.
L.L. is a recent UF graduate.ColumnTHURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Download the FREE
Gift Certiﬁcates & More App.1 2Signup for Free. 3Head to Tijuana Flatsfor delicious $5 Tacos!How to participateGainesville5$ TACO We e k
May 23rd ‐ 29th ONL Y!
FREE Gift Certificates • Vo uchers • Coupons
The realest interview: a millennial’s 
guide to ﬁ  nding a job post-college
L.L.
opinions@alligator.orgI was sitting at Los Angeles Union Station at 6:30 a.m. wait-ing for my train to arrive at the platform. Although I was busy reading on my phone, I noticed 
a man take a seat beside me. Sud-denly, he turned and asked: “Are you building a bomb? Are you go-ing to blow this place up?”
I was initially confused, but 
when I looked at him, I knew he wasn’t joking. A chill ran down my spine, and I felt the walls closing in on me. In that moment, I feared for my life.
This man knew nothing about me — it 
was clear his question was based on my ethnicity — but had already assumed that I was a threat to him, despite the fact that I only wanted to get on the train to celebrate a belated birthday with my parents. His dis-criminatory question was enough to make me curse my ethnicity and regret coming to the station. How audacious of me to think 
that I was entitled to ride on a train I had 
paid for.
Discrimination is real. And it hurts, liter-
ally.
In fact, numerous neurological and psy-
chological studies have shown that social pain — or emotional distress originating from things such as exclusion, ostracism and dis-crimination — is perceived by the brain, to a 
notable degree, like physical pain.
Research pioneered at the University of 
California Los Angeles has shown that when 
the human body experiences physical pain, the brain breaks down the sensation into two components: sensory and emotional. The sen-sory component is perceived by the part of the brain mapping to the site of the injury, and the emotional distress is usually directed to a 
region known as the dorsal anterior cingulate 
cortex, or dACC. But, when social pain is per-ceived through things like racism or discrimi-nation, the same dACC pathway is stimulated, leading to the characteristic “sting” of pain.
In other words, punching someone in 
the face and making racist comments about them are similarly perceived by the brain, activating many of the same pain receptors. And it’s clear from recent events that many UCLA stu-dents have been getting punched in 
the face.
Be it the Pi Kappa Phi frater-
nity’s use of meeting minutes to 
record racist and misogynistic com-ments or the Bruin Republicans members’ public denouncing of the transgender community, it’s clear 
from recent instances of racism and discrimi-nation that we students have failed to see the 
difference between expressing controversial 
opinions and propagating hate speech on campus. As if to rub salt on the wound, these groups have rushed to hide behind the First Amendment’s right to free speech to justify denigrating members of the Student Body.
However, students need to realize there is 
a clear distinction between free speech and discriminatory speech. Controversial opin-
ions sanctioned by the right to free speech are 
not the same thing as disparaging comments that needlessly harm members of the student population — the former sparks discussion about the topic, but the latter, despite how legal it may seem, only butchers discussion altogether.
Controversial speech is speech that pro-
motes conversation by explaining the merits 
of a contested viewpoint; hate speech, how-
ever, blatantly disparages a group of people without any attempt at sound argumentation.
For example, making racist comments 
about Mexican people — as did members of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity — does little to spark conversation, and it’s shameful of stu-dents to hold up the freedom-of-speech card when they are putting other students’ psycho-
logical and physiological well being at stake.
Ultimately, if students truly want to engage 
in constructive discussion about controversial 
topics, they need to foster an environment that allows for differences of opinion.
A version of this column by Keshav Tadi-
meti originally ran in The Daily Bruin.   Discriminatory comments should 
not be defended as free speech
Keshaw 
T adimeti
UWireColumn8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016
LOCAL
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Staff Writer
A Santa Fe College sophomore and self-pro-
claimed equestrian might become Chrome maga-
zine’s next top model.
Jeremy White’s love for horses led him to apply, 
and the magazine chose him as one of the top ﬁ  ve 
male ﬁ  nalists for the American Paint Horse Associa-
tion’s international modeling contest.
If he wins, White, 25, and one female ﬁ  nalist will 
be ﬂ  own to Texas for a magazine photo shoot, and 
they will also receive a mystery grand prize, he said.
In total, 10 people were chosen as ﬁ  nalists out 
of the 130 who applied, said Rachel Florman, the 
association’s associate editor.
“We’re extremely happy with the response we got,” she said. “At ﬁ  rst, we used professional mod-els for the magazine, but then we had this thought for members to be our models.”
Through his seven-year membership, White said 
he has talked to hundreds of people. 
There are nearly 50,000 members in the associa-
tion, Florman said.
“I saw it as a great opportunity for me to have a 
connection that brought me further into my love of horses,” he said. “It’s just like a big family to me.”
White’s horse, Ripley, inspired him to join the 
association. Although White sold him a few years 
ago, he hopes to buy him back in the future.
In the future, he hopes to transfer into the UF 
nursing program and eventually work with special 
needs children and therapeutic riding, White said.
For the meantime, he awaits the results of the 
contest. Voting will take place online until Sunday. The winners will be announced June 1.
“I think all kids go through a cowboy phase, and 
I’ve just never grown out of it,” White said. 
mandrade@alligator.orgSanta Fe student chosen as 
ﬁ  nalist in modeling  contest
Courtesy to the Alligator
Jeremy White poses for the American 
Paint Horse Association’s international modeling contest, hoping to be fea-tured in Chrome magazine.“At irst, we used professional models for the 
magazine, but then we had this thought for 
members to be our models.”
Rachel Florman
associate editorTHURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Laura Gomez
Alligator Contributing Writer
To Yilam Sartorio, the U.S. feels more 
like home than any other country she’s per-
formed in.
The 33-year-old opera singer from Cuba 
has toured globally, playing sold-out shows in countries like France and Mexico. Now, she and her husband, opera singer Ramon Centeno, are visiting UF as part of their ﬁ  rst-ever U.S. tour.
Associate professor of music Anthony 
Offerle, who will join the couple on stage, met the two while traveling to Havana, Cuba, last month and saw a chance to bring them to UF.
“This is a wonderful opportunity for us 
to begin building bridges with a country, which up until very recently, we didn’t know very much about,” Offerle said.
The singers have been in the U.S. for 
about a month, and their ﬁ  rst stop was in Atlanta.
“We love it,” Sartorio said, speaking 
in Spanish. “It’s the best country in the world.”
The UF School of Music and the College 
of the Arts Dean’s Ofﬁ  ce were able to fund Centeno’s and Sartorio’s plane ﬂ  ights from Atlanta to Gainesville.
Sartorio hopes to build a connection 
with the audience and touch their hearts through music.
“We want to be friends,” she said. 
“That’s the most important part.”
Cantantes y Canciones de Cuba (Sing-
ers and Songs from Cuba) will begin at 7:30 p.m. on Friday at the School of Music, Room 101. The concert is free to the public.  UF to host 
Cuban opera singers
By Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Staff Writer 
In just a few months, the community will 
gain a 32-acre urban park and, hopefully, a 
boost to its economy and sustainability. 
Planning for Depot Park began about 20 
years ago, and the project is both within its $5.9 million budget and on schedule for a soft opening August 1, said Nathalie McCrate, the 
project manager for the Gainesville Commu-
nity Redevelopment Agency.
Before the location became a job site for 
over 115 employees, it was a place where industries dumped hazardous material, Mc-
Crate said.
Although cleanup happened years before 
the project broke ground, workers still had to 
follow special handling procedures. “It was the biggest hurdle, but also the 
greatest opportunity,” she said. “It’s great to 
take something undesirable and make it desir-
able.” 
A 20-foot-wide waterfront promenade will 
serve as the main attraction, McCrate said. Walkways will wrap around a stormwater 
pond used to treat runoff from downtown 
Gainesville,  cleaning it before it enters Sweet-water Branch Creek and Payne’s Prairie.
The park will also allow kids of all ages to 
learn in a playground that emulates historic Gainesville landmarks, McCrate said.
She said Oelrich Constructions, the same 
company used by theme parks such as Disney World, designed the playground.
The Florida Museum of Natural History, 
the Florida Paleontological Society and the Florida Geological Foundation donated imi-tation fossils, which guests can uncover in a splash pad, where water will jet from the 
ground.
Depot Park, McCrate said, will also in-
clude hydration stations for bicyclists and a 
Share the Road Memorial.
The CRA, she said, is waiting for approval 
to lease the Historic Depot Building in the park’s north side. It hopes to open a general store with snacks and extras, such as sun-screen and towels.
The park will host festivals such as food 
truck rallies and wine tastings, lead project manager Cindi Harvey said.
“There’s a little bit of something for every-
one,” she said. 
jrodriguez@alligator.org Construction for Depot Park within budget
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
A rusted metal sign marking the entrance to Depot Park, which 
is being constructed in dedication to Gainesville’s industrial sector, evokes the history behind the land in downtown that was previously used as a railroad station.THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016
3 bedroom FLOORPLANS
the
colliercompanies colliercompanies.com
Arlingtonsquare.org | 352.338.0002 | 207 SE 2nd Place, Suite i -13
THE ONLY
 APARTMENTS!
thecolliercompaniescolliercompanies.com
LIVE HERE, WALK 167 STEPS TO CAMPUS.
STUDIOS • 1 & 2 BEDROOMS • TOWNHOMES352.372.7111
CollegeManor.org
thecolliercompaniescolliercompanies.com352.316.7963
APARTMENTS
 CollegeparkGainesville.com
LIVE
 AWAY FROM CAMPUS!
oxfordmanor.org | 352.260.0487 | 2777 SW Archer Rd
 OxfordManor    @OxfordManorGNV
call today for current specials! ACTIVATE YOUR LIFESTYLE
call today for current specials!
OM-Alligator Ad_5.12.15-2015-R8933-v1r0-FINAL.indd   1 5/8/15   2:42 PM
waived
$200
LEASING FEES
$250 SAVINGS!
WITH SAME DAY
SHOW & SIGN 352.377.4070 | thegatewayatglades.com
thecolliercompaniescolliercompanies.com
200
200
GIFT CARD
SIGN A LEASE  
AND RECEIVE A  
thecolliercompaniescolliercompanies.com352.372.9255 | 3500 SW 19th Avenue | MuseumWalk.com
ONE MONTH FREE!CALL OUR OFFICE 
FOR DETAILS
the
colliercompanies colliercompanies.com
BE CONFIDENT
352.373.2000  
campusclubgainesville.com
IN YOUR DECISIONS
thecolliercompaniescolliercompanies.com
ThePolosGainesville.com • 352.335.7656
DON’T MISS OUT ON OUR GREAT SPECIALS!
thecolliercompaniescolliercompanies.com
VALUEexcellentextra
AMENITIESstarting at$395
352.373.9009 | 3700 SW 27th St.
lexingtoncrossingapts.com      
Receive a $200 Visa Gift Card when you move in by May 30th.
3205 NW 83rd Street, Gainesville, FL 32606  |   352.379.9300  |  thecrossingatsantafe.com•CLEAN  OUT THE  FRIDGE•
Invent New  
BREAKFAST   
foods
 FacebookTROLL  
YOUR  
FRIENDS  
ONWorkoutGET IN      A GOOD
W
ork
W
ork
W
Live at The Crossing at Santa Fe  
where you have time to do “whatever” 
and still get to class on time.
Text “SantaFe” to 47464 for more info. New homes | New gym
New Lifestyle
lux13apartments.com | 352.374.3866        YOU
DESERVE
IT.
APARTMENTSINGAINESVILLE.COM
FIND THESE…AND MANY MORE GREAT COMMUNITIES AT
3801 SW 13th St, Gainesville, FL 32608    ]   352.336.3838    thelandingsgainesville.com
Love the Experience You’re Living
DON’T WAIT
2/2.5’s for $485 
4/4’s for $355
Prices are based on availability.
BRING IN THIS AD FOR A SPECIAL OFFER!
2701 SW 13th Street  |  352-377-7401  |  BoardwalkApt.com1, 2 & 3 bedroom/s.end1, 2 & 3 bedroom/s.end
the
colliercompanies colliercompanies.comLOCAL
By Nina Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Gainesville will celebrate Cofrin Nature 
Park’s renovations Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 
11:45 a.m. 
The City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation 
and Cultural Affairs Department started ren-
ovations in 2003 and closed the park for six 
months in fall 2015, said Linda Demetropou-los, the nature manager for PRCA. 
The park, located at 4810 NW Eighth 
Ave., will host guided tours that lead guests through the park and its Survivors of Suicide Loss Memory Garden, Demetropoulos said. Tours will take place at 10 a.m. and 10:30 a.m. 
The garden’s coordinator, Judy Broward, 
said the area is meant to prevent suicides and provide support to survivors. 
“Maybe the garden and seeing the pain 
that loved ones have after a loss will maybe inspire people to get help,” she said.  
Demetropoulos said the free event will 
also include educational exhibits and pre-sentations. 
As part of the improvements, workers 
reduced erosion at the Beville Creek shore-line. They also removed a septic system and connected the public bathrooms to sanitary sewers, further improving the creek’s water 
quality, she said.
“The creeks look clean and a fabulous 
place to splash around in, but it’s got a lot of 
polluting bacteria that might be harmful to people,” she said. 
Demetropoulos said the tours will also 
showcase a new footbridge.
“We’ve been a little bit slow to celebrate 
our success, but even after the park has been 
reopened, we’ve still continued to spiffy it 
up,” she said.  Cofrin Nature Park celebrates reopening after renovations Courtesy of Steven Katona
RE“FRY”ED
Henry Wolf, a 20-year-old fabricator, re-
paints the sculpture “Big Max” outside of the Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art on Wednesday.  John Henry, the artist whose sculpture of intersecting lines seen on UF’s campus resembles french fries, came back to UF with a team, which included Wolf, to revamp his 3-year-old art piece.
Addresses:
Limited parking available at 
University Church of Christ, 4626 NW 
Eighth Ave., and Cofrin Nature Park,
4810 NW Eighth Ave.
The City Beautification Board recently 
recognized the renovations.Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Q&A with local band Crystal Balls
The GNV band discusses its upcoming show, pg. 14Tribute show to beneﬁ  t local girls camp 
The show will take place Friday at 9:30 p.m., pg. 13
By Paola Ascencio
Avenue Writer 
A popular reggae band will visit 
Gainesville this week to show fans 
its redeﬁ  ned iconic music.
The Wailers, formed in the late 
’60s in Kingston, Jamaica, includ-ed Bob Marley as a founding mem-ber before he went solo. The band 
will play at High Dive, located at 
210 SW Second Ave., on Tuesday, with openers The Savants of Soul, Maca Reggae Samba and Turn-around. 
Doors open at 6 p.m. for the 8 
p.m. show, and tickets are $20 on ticketﬂ  y.com or $23 at the door, according to the Facebook event 
page. The band will be playing all 
of Bob Marley’s biggest hits and will be celebrating the 30-year an-niversary of Bob Marley and the Wailers’ “Legend” album, which is the best-selling reggae album of 
all time. 
The group is currently touring 
around the U.S. and giving fans a 
taste of its modern ﬂ  are to the reg-gae genre. The band has sold over 250 million albums worldwide and has performed more than 200 shows annually, according to Jus-tine Ketola, who is in charge of the 
band’s publicity and social media. 
Originally known as Bob Mar-
ley and the Wailers when the 
band ﬁ  rst formed, the music has been recognized by premiere mu-sic companies and has made it on Rolling Stone’s “500 Greatest Al-bums of All Time.”
“Original members included 
Bob Marley and his vocal partners Bunny Wailer and Peter Tosh, alongside the ground-breaking rhythm section of the Barrett 
brothers, Carlton on drums and 
Aston ‘Family Man’ on bass,” Ke-tola said. 
Their ambition led them to 
perform countless shows, which landed them a contract with Island Records in 1971.
“Today, Aston leads the band 
as it continues its worldwide cam-
paign to promote peace, love and 
equality through the message of reggae and Rastafari,” she said.
According to the Facebook 
event page, attendees can expect to hear Bob Marley classics like “One Love,” “Simmer Down” and “Get Up, Stand Up.” High Dive’s beer garden will also be open at 6 
p.m. for those of age.World-famous reggae band hits High Dive
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Wailers have toured all over the world for the last 40 
years, playing more than 200 shows each year.
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Wailers, an iconic reggae band, will play at High Dive on Tuesday. Doors open at 6 p.m. for 
the 8 p.m. show, and tickets can be bought online for $20 to $23. 
The Wailers to perform on TuesdayBy Catherine Dickson
Avenue Writer 
A local gay bar will host a new burlesque show 
during its grand opening in a former biker bar Fri -
day.
Melody Club at Full Moon has been open for a 
month since its move from Northwest Sixth Street.
The original bar was one of the oldest-running 
clubs in Florida and a staple in the LGBTQ+ com -
munity, manager Justin Nelson said.
“The bar itself was beyond repair, and the own -
er of the building didn’t want to put any money 
into it,” he said. “We wanted to make the move a 
positive one and keep the bar alive.” 
Benefits of the move, such as running water and 
working electricity, are already clear, he said.
Nelson upholds the bar’s theme and hosts a bur -
lesque show once a month during the weekend of 
each full moon. 
This weekend is a full moon, so it is a perfect 
time to have the grand opening, he said.
The party begins at 6 p.m. and will include a 
burlesque show, a male revue, the Soup to Nuts 
food truck and happy-hour pricing all night. 
“It’s going to be a night of entertainment,” he 
said. 
Sally B. Dash is an occasional performer in the 
burlesque show that plays monthly at the bar. She 
and Nelson co-produced the burlesque show spe -
cifically for the new location.
This show is more intimate, she said. It’s only 
two performers, and viewers have more of an op -
portunity to see the costumes up-close. 
Dash created her name after mixing two cos -
tumes she had at home for a Halloween party: Sally 
Bowles, the main character in “Cabaret,” and Rain -
bow Dash, a My Little Pony character.
“It is really fun for me,” she said. “It’s how I can 
express my creativity. I like to be a storyteller and 
performer.”
Dash said she is excited about the move and 
thinks a new name and look is positive. 
“There’s a lot of potential for the stage,” she said. “It’s set up better for performance.” 
Nelson said it’s been interesting to see former 
customers from the original biker bar come in to a 
completely different demographic.
“We tell everybody we are a neighborhood bar, 
and everybody’s welcome if they want to come in 
and enjoy a drink,” he said.
The bar is located at 4401 NW Sixth St., and at -
tendees must be 21 to enter.THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer 
Gainesville will welcome a New York Times bestselling au -
thor to town Sunday when Amy Stewart speaks at the Alachua 
County Library District. Stewart will visit as part of the library’s 
2016 Author Series, and she will promote her new book, “Girl 
Waits with Gun,” with a signing and Q&A session. 
The new book is “based on a true story about three sisters 
who fought back against injustice in a way that few women of 
1914 would have dared,” Stewart said. “It’s the first in a series, 
all based on their actual life story.” 
For the library event, she will tell the story of how she dis -
covered these women, as well as show photographs and docu -
ments from their lives. Stewart said she may even give some hints about what fans can expect in the upcoming books. 
Stewart will be pulling double-duty in Gainesville this week -
end, as she will also speak at the Florida Museum of Natu -
ral History on Saturday to discuss another one of her books, 
“Wicked Plants,” which she said is about “the dark side of the 
plant kingdom.” 
“It’ll be tales of drama and intrigue from the plant kingdom 
— which weed killed Abraham Lincoln’s mother, what seed 
makes the perfect murder weapon and what plant has killed 90 
million people,” she said of her talk at the museum. 
Nickie Kortus, the marketing and public relations manag -
er for the Alachua County Library District, said Stewart is the 
eighth author to come speak in Gainesville this year as part of 
the 2016 Author Series.  
The library began the series in 2015 with five bestselling au -thors.
Stewart was invited to speak at the library because of her 
strong record, with four New York Times bestsellers and ap -
pearances on NPR’s Morning Edition and Fresh Air.
Her most recent work, “Girl Waits with Gun,” has generated 
some of her biggest buzz yet. 
“It’s been touted for its strong female character, much like 
‘Girl on a Train,’ and it’s been named a New York Times Edi -
tor’s Choice and one of the People’s Best Books of the Fall,” 
Kortus said. 
The Alachua County Library District frequently has strong 
turnouts on these events, and it expects this weekend to follow 
that trend. Stewart will be at the library, located at 401 E. Uni -
versity Ave., from 2:30 p.m. to 4 p.m., and Books-A-Million will 
sell copies of “Girl Waits with Gun” for signing. 
THE SHOW WILL BENEFIT A 
LOCAL CAMP FOR GIRLS.
By Chase Granger 
Avenue Writer 
The third in a series of tribute shows 
benefiting the Gainesville Girls Rock 
Camp will take place Friday at 9:30 p.m. 
at Loosey’s Downtown. 
The 1990s Tribute Show will feature 
local feminist bands covering songs from 
female groups and musicians of the de -
cade.  
Tickets will be sold at the door at a 
minimum price of $5, with an option to 
donate up to $10. 
According to its website, Gainesville 
Girls Rock Camp is an organization that 
uses music and performance as a plat -
form to encourage self-esteem, self-ex -
pression and community for girls. 
“We wanted to provide the commu -
nity with an accessible way to give the 
community a chance to come have fun 
and learn about our camp,” said Chelsea 
Carnes, the founder and director of the 
camp.  
Carnes, 27, is a Gainesville local who 
founded the camp four years ago after 
volunteering at the Girls Rock Jackson -
ville camp. 
Carnes will be performing herself, as 
well as Chelsea Kamm, Killarney Star, 
Van Tran and Kara Smith. A few of the 
artists who will be covered include The 
Cranberries, Tori Amos and Bjork. 
According to Carnes, all of the per -
formers at the benefit show have either 
volunteered at the camp in the past or have performed in previous benefit 
shows. 
“Empowering young girls in 
Gainesville is a great cause, and we’re 
hoping we get a big turnout,” Carnes 
said.
After the benefit show, there will 
be a 1990s diva karaoke hosted by DJ 
Wolftron. 
“We chose this theme because a lot of 
the women who volunteer at camp grew 
up in the ’90s,” Carnes said, “and we felt 
the women of the ’90s were empowering 
figures, which is what we want to do for 
our campers.” 
All of the proceeds from the show 
will go directly toward the camp, with 
the primary focus on fundraising to pro -
vide scholarships to campers. 
Gainesville Girls Rock Camp is for 
local girls ages nine to 17. Session one 
runs from June 20 to 25 and is for girls 
nine to 13 years old. Session two is July 
11 to 16 and is for girls 13 to 17 years 
old.  
Cost of camp attendance is $200 
per camper. Applications can be found 
at the camp’s website, gainesvillegirl -
srockcamp.com. No musical experience 
is necessary for campers, and all of the 
instruments at the camp have been do -
nated.
The primary focus of the camp is to 
provide a place for young girls to de -
velop the ability to express themselves 
freely, Carnes said. 
“Girls learn how to play an instru -
ment, but, more importantly, they gain 
access to a community that is accepting 
and encouraging,” Carnes said. Tribute to help girls rock
Courtesy to the Alligator
Stella O’Hare, a burlesque dancer at the 
Melody Club at Full Moon, is known for 
her gothic pin-up style.
GNV bar to host grand openingAlachua County library brings in bestselling authorBy Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer 
Crystal Balls, a Gainesville band 
made up of Kendrick Lemke, Nick 
Herrera and Erick Ubiles, is hitting 
the scene with their self-described “blackened swamp sci-ﬁ   doom met-
al.” I sat down with the band to talk 
sound and the music scene before Crystal Balls’ Saturday show at the 
Hardback Cafe. 
Kirsten Chuba: How did Crystal 
Balls get started?
Kendrick Lemke: Nick and I 
have been playing in bands together 
for eight years now. We met Erick a 
couple years ago through Max, the 
bassist/vocalist of our last band, Waste. Waste played a few shows 
with Erick’s old band, Railgun, and 
we’ve been friends since. Last No-vember, after Waste disappeared in 
the spring, Nick and I started jam-
ming on what eventually became “Baby Prison,” and we wanted a 
vocalist and a bassist to ﬁ  ll out the 
sound and help with writing before we recorded anything. Erick liked 
the music and was down, so that’s 
when Crystal Balls really came into existence.KC: How would you describe 
your sound?
KL: Frank Zappa said “writing 
about music is like dancing about architecture,” and I think that’s true 
to an extent. But if we had to put it 
into words, we think we pretty much sound like a doom metal band with 
elements of stoner rock and black 
metal. Sometimes we’re crushing, sometimes we’re groovy.
KC: How many shows has the 
band played?
Nick Herrera: We played our 
ﬁ  rst show as Crystal Balls in January at a DIY venue in Gainesville, and since then we’ve played a couple 
Gainesville house shows, Loosey’s 
and Uncle Lou’s Entertainment Hall in Orlando. We also have a show 
scheduled at Hardback Cafe and an-
other one in early June at The Atlan-tic. We haven’t done any touring yet, 
but we’re working on playing some more out-of-town shows and maybe 
doing a short Southeastern U.S. tour this fall.
KC: What can people expect from 
your show at the Hardback?
NH: Lots of fog, loud ampliﬁ  ers, a 
few epic 10-minute pieces of music, maybe an out-of-body experience. The other bands playing, Thunder-clap and In The Stone, are both fan-
tastic as well, so it will deﬁ  nitely be 
a great night for anyone who’s down with dirty riffs (and lots of fog).
KC: Can you talk about your new 
digital album?
Erick Ubiles: The “Roots” EP is 
the beginning of an interplanetary saga of betrayal, revenge and agri-culture, and it is Crystal Balls’ ﬁ  rst 
published release. It’s only two songs 
long but is still quite lengthy. We re-corded with Rob McGregor at Gol-
dentone Studio here in Gainesville. 
Roots is available as a free download on crystalballs.bandcamp.com, with 
the option of buying a CD that can be 
shipped out, and it’s also available on Spotify, iTunes and other major 
digital music retailers. We plan on 
releasing a full length album in the near future, so it should be ready by 
the time you’re done listening to our EP.
KC: What do you think about the 
Gainesville music scene, particularly for local bands?
EU: The music scene in 
Gainesville is great. It has a wide va-riety of genres to offer, and a lot of 
the local acts are world class. Bands like Post-teens, Gaul, Consent, Doz-ier, The Duppies, Thunderclap, etc. are putting on excellent shows in 
town and around the entire state of 
Florida. If you haven’t yet, check out some of the local Gainesville bands 
and artists, you’re sure to ﬁ  nd some-
thing you like.
Tickets for Crystal Balls’ show at 
the Hardback, located at 211 W. Uni-versity Ave., will be $5 at the door, with doors opening at 9 p.m. and the show starting at 10 p.m. There 
will also be specials on Florida craft 
beers, according to the Facebook event page. 
Know of any other local bands 
I should check out? Shoot me an email at kchuba@alligator.org.14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016
Q&A: Local band Crystal Balls discusses GNV music scene
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
We’re almost halfway through 2016, and 
this year has already been a better year for 
music than the last. Some of today’s biggest 
artists, including Kanye West, Beyonce and 
Drake, have released albums this year, but 
some of the best projects released have been 
from artists with less star power. It’s time to 
catch you up on some of the latest and hottest releases.
Chance The Rapper — “Coloring Book” 
— May 13
It’s been over three years since “Acid 
Rap” dropped, but Chance The Rapper ﬁ  nal-
ly released his third mixtape, titled “Coloring 
Book,” on Friday. “Coloring Book” has an incredible list of features consisting of Kanye West, 2 Chainz, Lil Wayne, Jeremih, Young 
Thug, Lil Yachty, Future and more. Besides 
the short time the mixtape spent on DatPiff, 
“Coloring Book” can be streamed exclusively 
on Apple Music for free but will be available 
everywhere soon. Deﬁ  nitely take a listen to 
“Coloring Book” if you haven’t already.
Post Malone — “August 26th” — May 13
Post Malone broke through with his single 
“White Iverson” in 2015, which was easily one of the best songs released last year. He ﬁ  nally released his debut mixtape, “August 26th,” on 
Friday. The mixtape has a handful of features 
coming from 2 Chainz, 1st, Jeremih, Lil Yachty, 
Jaden Smith and others. Post Malone is unique 
in the sense that he can rap on a banger like 
“Monte” and then transition into singing “Hol-lywood Dreams,” where he samples Fleetwood 
Mac’s “Dreams.” You can download “August 
26th” for free.
Skepta — “Konnichiwa” — May 6If you aren’t familiar with Skepta, he’s a 
dope rapper out of London, and he released his fourth studio album, “Konnichiwa,” earlier 
this month. Skepta is extremely underrated in 
the U.S. because many people don’t listen to 
U.K. rap, but I can assure you he’s one of the 
best. 
Madeintyo — “You Are Forgiven” —
April 27
Madeintyo made noise with his hit single 
“Uber Everywhere” in late 2015,  and he dropped a mixtape titled “You Are Forgiven” 
in late April. Madeintyo (pronounced “Made in 
Tokyo”) is new to the game, and you should be familiar with him.
A$AP Ferg — “Always Strive and Pros-
per” — April 22
A$AP Ferg released his sophomore album, 
“Always Strive and Prosper.” “Trap Lord” 
wasn’t a great album, but it deﬁ  nitely had its 
moments, with bangers like “Shabba” and 
“Work (Remix)” that still go hard today. “Al-
ways Strive and Prosper” is one of the best al-
bums this year.
Lil Uzi Vert — “Lil Uzi Vert Vs. The 
World” — April 15
Lil Uzi Vert generated a buzz in 2015 lead-
ing up to his debut mixtape, “Luv is Rage,” in December. With songs like “7 am” and “Top,” 
Lil Uzi Vert proved he is one of the best new 
artists in the game, and now, he has showed 
he’s here to stay. Courtesy to the Alligator
Crystal Balls, a local Gainesville band, will play at the Hard-
back Cafe on Saturday. Tickets are $5 at the door.
NEW HIP-HOP RELEASES FROM THIS YEAR ff the RecordBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   5-31-16-41-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
$325 1 bed in 2/1 with female student. Includes small privacy fenced back yard to room, sliding glass doors, washer/dryer, dish washer, high-speed internet and split electric 352 631 0737     6-30-11-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
1 BEDROOM in a 4:2 home for summer $300 / month & Fall / Spring semester $325 / month Call/text Joel : 352-443-3077 or wild -
buffalowings8@gmail.com[Dogs ok] Students preferred     5-19-10-2Walk 1-3 blks from UF.
Avail in Aug:
2bd/2.5 bth $1100.00; 2bd/1bth $1000.00, 
1bd/1bth $650.00-$635.00, studio $500.00.
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com
8-26-16-30-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
3BR/2BA Haile Home $1200/m Rent in-cludes yard care, security system, W/D zoned Wiles, Kanapaha wooded view, walk to restaurants, pool.1st, last$350 SD. Pet fees 352-222-5990.    5-19-16-4-2
6BR 3BA Compound - 2 Houses, huge fenced yard, hot tub, huge warehouse, Walk/Bike to UF and downtown! Pets OK! $3300. 612-229-4138    6-16-16-10-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
Mobile Home for Sale by Owner in Gainesville; 2 bdrm; 2 bath w/all appliances; (352) 871-1126 and/or 352-246-1906    5-24-16-5-5
5+ ACRES in TENNESSEEStarting at $17,900!!Wooded – Views – Creeks!Unrestricted Hunting & Timber Tracts50+ acres starting at $89,900!!Call 1-877-740-6717     5-19-1-5c
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10
Church FurnitureDoes your Church need PewsPulpit Set, Baptistery, Steeple, Windows?BIG SALE on new cushioned Pews & Pew Chairs 1-800-231-8360   www.pews1.com     5-19-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   8-15-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor -
rections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST 
DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one day. No 
refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the 
first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     6-7-16-5-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up And Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647     5-19-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     6-7-16-5-13
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13$ WANTED $
CASH PAID for pre-1980 COMIC BOOKS
STAR WARS ACTION FIGURES
Original Comic Art 
Sports Cards & Autographed Memorabilia
1990’s MagictheGathering
Call WILL:  800-242-6130
buying@getcashforcomics.com     5-19-1-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
5-31-16-7-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,Entry LevelPaid TrainingAccess To Reliable Transportation AndCommunicationRGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/Disabled $9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com     5-19-15-11-14
YARD WORK
Approximately 1 mile from campus. $10/hrApproximately 3 hrs per visit. Flexible.Call 352-505-9022     5-19-4-14
Looking for an office cleaner ; mon5p, tues5p, th12p, fri5p, sat 12p; weekly pay 8.50/hr; lots of driving involved so one must have a car, be able to pass a drug/back -
ground check too; if interested please con-tact me at 3522140868 [I'm also looking for someone to clean empty homes/Apts when people move out     5-24-5-14
 
1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing/fit 
gals/guys for part time driver position. 
Student or recent graduate preferred. 
+21 age req'd for insurance. $10 - $15/
hr. Email cover letter and resume to 
gainesvillecentral@1800gotjunk.com
5-19-16-4-14
Retired person needs student P/T a few hrs per week (8-12) for yard work, house -
keeping, etc. Home close to UF. $9. per hr. Short resume, reply with time/hrs available. ghpolkgator@gmail.com    5-24-4-14
Permeant PT Financial Asst.15-18 hrs wkly: Detail oriented professional w/ bookkeeping, computer, phone & general office skills send your resume to Sarah@holytrinityGNV.org    5-19-16-4-14 
Permanent PT Financial Asst.15-18 hrs wkly: Detail oriented professional w/ book-
keeping, computer, phone & general office skills send your resume to Sarah@holytrinityGNV.org    5-19-16-4-14
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
5-19-16-3-14
Experienced stunt base needed to 
work with 95lb high school cheer flyer.
Call 352-226-7040
5-26-16-5-14Career Opportunities at On Top of the World in Ocala, FL
 CADD Technician – seeking an experienced, 
detail oriented CADD Technician with a mini-mum of 5 years of experience and a solid background in producing complete construc-tion documents. Experience in AutoCAD a must, possess working knowledge of build -
ing systems and construction methods, task oriented, have the ability to coordinate with clients and consultants and be proficient at multi-tasking in order to handle several proj-ects at once.
Marketing Systems Coordinator-To pro-
vide support and back up to the Marketing Systems Coordinator with all marketing relat-ed materials online and internally. Reporting directly to the Marketing Manager while maintaining communication with all team members of the Marketing Department and related entities.
Contact On Top of the World Human 
Resource Department to apply or for more information Hiring@OTOWFL.com <mailto:Hiring@OTOWFL.com> or 352-387-7422  OnTopoftheWorld.com    5-31-16-5-14
RELIGIOUS EDUCATION DIRECTOR
Unitarian Universalist Fellowship
PT, Sundays reqd, $16K + benefits
Details at www.uufg.org
dresearch@uufg.org
6-2-16-5-14
ATTN: Drivers - $2K Sign-On BonusLove your $60K+ Job!Cool, Comfortable Miles100% APU TrucksCDL-A Req’d  (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com     5-19-1-14
EXPERIENCED  OTR  FLATBED DRIVERS  Earn 50 up to 55cpm loaded. $1000 Sign Onto qualified drivers. Good home time.Call 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com EOE     5-19-1-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
MATH TUTOR. Live tutoring online
at calcprof.com.  Former UF professor.
Over 15 years teaching experience.
Eve. & weekend hours avail.
$20-$40/hr. (352) 354-3706
5-31-16-8-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
AIRLINES need Aircraft Dispatchers!Grads work with Airlines, Airports and OthersGET CERTIFIED in just 12 weeks with FAA  approved training Call AIM 888-242-2649    5-19-1-15
DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary! Save up to $720 With our 3-Year Price Lock-Lock in your discounts now! Call now for this special promotion! 855-479-7963     5-19-1-15
1. MUSIC: What group had a hit 
song with “Love Shack”?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Where was the eastern terminus of the 
Santa Fe Trail?
3. GEOGRAPHY: What is the name 
of the area in the Pacific that means “many islands”?
4. MEASUREMENTS: How long 
does it take light from the Sun to reach 
the Earth?
5. GAMES: What is the highest 
score possible in the game of darts?
6. ASTRONOMY: What two planets 
in our solar system rotate clockwise?
7. MONEY: What is the currency of 
Switzerland?
8. HISTORY: Where were the first 
Strategic Arms Limitations Talks held 
in 1969? 
9. INVENTIONS: What 1947 inven-
tion led to the development of small 
portable radios? 
10. MOVIES: What film musical 
included the tune “They Call the Wind 
Maria”?
Answers
1. The B-52s, 19892. Independence, Missouri3. Polynesia4. 8 minutes, 20 seconds5. 1806. Venus and Uranus7. Swiss franc
8. Helsinki, Finland
9. The transistor10. “Paint Your Wagon”
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 16, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesTHURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?
Settle for a fraction of what you owe!Results may vary.Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates  1-877-330-3429     5-19-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800-224-0305    5-19-1-16Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
Designated drivers are the greatest
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?
You and Your Family May be entitledto significant CASH AWARD.Call 1-855-389-3099      5-19-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope & Help LineFor a free assessment, 1-855-995-3142     5-19-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
ACROSS
1 Toddler coddlers
6 Office stock
10 Port container14 What’s made
“just in case”
15 Follow16 Eclipse, to some17 Overindulged
oneself
19 It may sweep you
off your feet
20 “Me too”
21 Sleeper’s malady
22 Communications
feature since the
1870s
26 Breakfast choices27 Spot for
breakfast
28 El __29 They’re usually
covered by grilles
33 __ out a living34 “Don’t Go
Breaking MyHeart” duettist
37 WWII battle site,
for short
38 Just beginning to
develop
40 Emailed a dupe
to
41 Research ctr.42 White of the eye44 “Looks pretty
good, huh?”
49 1945 meeting
site
50 Stern with a bow51 __ marker52 Psychology
subject ... andwhat’s containedin this puzzle’scircles
57 Rapper with the
debut album“Trouble”
58 Porch torch type59 Sun: Pref.
60 Common
allergen
61 Right on an atlas
62 A bit off
DOWN
1 Litter attention-
getter
2 Hefted tool3 Hood, for one:
Abbr.4 Like Radio City
Music Hall
5 “The Daily Show”
device
6 Where wee ones
go
7 Waiting room
read
8 Just out
9 Case, for
instance: Abbr.
10 Ranch hand11 Its website has a
range finder
12 Divide into parts13 Prep, at a pizza
parlor
18 Mel and Ed with
World Series
rings
21 Not subject to, as
suspicion
22 Fault product
23 More learned24 Plains “Queen
Wheat City”
25 Days long gone26 Photo file format29 Feel poorly30 Tidy (up),
facetiously
31 Dance
provocatively
32 Pop34 Cousin of “-ish”
35 __ many words36 Pop’s Perry39 Things on 
strings
40 Played-out
sayings
42 Ratings unit43 Ballroom dance44 Longtime Rolling
Stones bassistBill
45 17-syllable work46 Divvy up47 Down and dirty
noises
48 “Can you __ in a
sentence?”
52 Relative of “-ian”53 Actress Peeples54 Kind55 One of a rat’s
pack?
56 Financial
measure, with“the”
By Greg Johnson©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/19/1605/19/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, May 19, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
Headline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Alejandro T osti and the UF men's golf team ﬁ  nished in second place at the NCAA Regionals.Read the story on pg. 20.
Florida faces Stanford in NCAA Round of 16
The Florida women's tennis team faces Stanford in the NCAA T ournament's 
Round of 16 at 1 p.m. in Tulsa, Oklahoma. The Gators lost to the Cardinal 4-3 in their last matchup on Feb. 28. Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Florida’s offense struggles 
when A.J. Puk is on the mound.
Even UF's hitters can't deny 
it.
“We just haven’t been able 
to score for him,” shortstop 
Dalton Guthrie said after Flor-ida’s 5-0 loss to Vanderbilt on Saturday. 
“I don’t know what it is.”
Puk, who owns a 2-3 record, 
has pitched well this season. 
He owns a 2.88 ERA and is 
limiting hitters to a .189 bat-
ting average, which is good for 
second best in the Southeastern 
Conference.
But there hasn’t been much 
to show for the potential first-
round pick’s efforts.
One glaring reason: He has 
received very little run support.
The Gators have scored 25 
runs in Puk’s 56.1 innings on the hill, an average of about 
four runs per nine innings.
In comparison, UF’s two other starting pitchers, Logan Shore and Alex Faedo, have received more than 7.5 runs per nine innings while on the 
mound.
Even Puk gets frustrated 
with it at times.
“It can be. I just try to go out 
there and keep us into it,” he said. 
“I know once our bats get 
going, we don’t have any prob-
lems scoring runs.”
The No. 1 Gators (43-9, 
18-8 SEC) will try to solve Alex Lange and No. 8 LSU in their final regular-season series, a three-game set in Baton Rouge 
starting tonight at 7:30.
The Tigers (37-16, 17-10 
SEC) carry a scorching nine-
game winning streak into the 
series, highlighted by sweeps of 
Arkansas and Tennessee.
Florida’s offense will have 
its hands full Thursday against Lange, LSU’s ace.
The sophomore right-hander 
holds a 7-3 record along with a  Florida's offense struggling with Puk pitching
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 19
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 19 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 19SWEET AND BAUER
If I were to walk into the 
Alligator office today, get up-set at my boss and punch him 
square in the jaw, I’d probably 
be arrested. And rightfully so. 
But fields and courts aren’t 
offices. And while there’s 
plenty of talk about how ath-
letes are held to a different standard outside the game, it’s inside the game where ath-letes’ privilege shows most.
That was made clear on Sunday when 
the already infamous “brawl” between the Toronto Blue Jays and Texas Rang-ers broke out, culminating in — and, be-
cause this is a baseball fight, beginning 
with — Texas second baseman Rougned Odor knocking all-star Jose Bautista’s glasses clean off his face with a brutal right hook.
Odor was given an eight-game sus-
pension, Bautista was given a one-game suspension and several other players in-volved were also given one game or a 
fine. Bautista started things by 
trying to take out Odor’s legs 
on a clearly intentional hard 
slide at second. Odor then 
escalated things with the punch. 
The first problem here 
is it doesn’t seem fair that Odor gets a suspension eight times longer than Bautista’s. Both things — sliding and 
punching — were clearly meant to hurt 
the other player. One approach to doing 
that was not more ethical than the other; Odor just did a seemingly better job than Bautista. 
But the other problem is that no oth-
er profession tolerates this kind of crap. Forget suspension or fines — if I did this, I’d at least get fired and would likely be in prison. 
But because it happened on a field 
— or court or rink — it’s all good. We watch it play on TV over and over again.  Why is ﬁ  ghting OK on a ﬁ  eld?
FLORIDA IS THE NO. 1 SEED IN 
THE NCAA TOURNAMENT.
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer 
Florida’s one-run loss to Auburn on Fri-
day put a swift end to its hopes of winning the Southeastern Conference Tournament.
But for the Gators, it was familiar ter-
ritory. 
In 2014 and 2015, losing in the SEC 
Tournament didn’t stop No. 1 Florida from winning national championships.
So, in a way, after coming away empty 
for the third year in a row, everything is going according to plan. 
Now, Florida (53-5) turns its attention 
to a tournament that it has dominated over the last two years: the NCAAs. 
NCAA Regionals begin Friday in 
Gainesville. Of the 64 teams competing to dethrone UF, three of them — Alabama State, FAU and UCF — will come to Ka-tie Seashole Pressly for the double-elimi-nation contest this weekend, from which one will win and continue on to the Super Regional round of 16. 
No. 1-seeded Florida’s ﬁ  rst game comes 
against the Alabama State Hornets (28-25) on Friday at 2:30 p.m. following the UCF-FAU noon matchup.
Tim Walton is 27-6 in regional games 
since becoming Florida’s head coach. But never before in Florida softball history has UF gone up against Alabama State. 
The Hornets get most 
of their offensive ﬁ  re-power from Charlene Castro and Kendall Core, who have combined for 
18 home runs and 88 
RBIs. Both are hitting above .354. 
Then again, the Hor-
nets haven’t competed against SEC pitch-
ing all season.  Gators begin NCAA Regional 
after disappointing SEC TourneyPuk is 2-3 this season
Walton
A.J. Puk pitches during Florida's 10-7 win 
over T exas A&M on April 3 at McKethan Stadium. When the junior starts, Florida has scored just four runs per nine innings this season.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri
Sports WriterTHURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.3.76 ERA and 95 strikeouts in 88.2 in-
nings this year. 
But these numbers are measly 
when looking at the statistics he put up in his All-American freshman year. 
Lang went 12-0, had a 1.97 ERA 
and 131 strikeouts in 114 innings.
Plus, Lange has seen the Gators be-
fore.
In their lone matchup last year, he 
held UF scoreless through seven in-nings in the SEC Tournament. 
Florida won 2-1.At the plate, the Tigers are scrappy.LSU’s .298 team average trumps 
Florida’s .285 mark by a significant margin, and the Tigers make consis-tent contact, having struck out just 242 times — the lowest number in the 
SEC.
But LSU hasn’t faced a pitching ar-
senal quite like UF’s.
Florida struck out more batters than 
any other team in the nation. 
Even more impressive is UF leads 
the country in strikeout-to-walk ratio, 
which means batters are forced to hit their way on base.
Not to mention Shore and Faedo 
share the conference's lead in wins 
with 10.
In addition, UF catchers Mike Rive-
ra and JJ Schwarz will likely be busy 
behind the plate — LSU paces the SEC 
in stolen bases with 85.  
Jake Fraley (24) and Cole Freeman 
(23) lead the way in that category.
Friday's and Saturday's games can 
be watched on ESPNU, while Friday’s game will air on the SEC Network.
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg 18UF's Shore, 
Faedo both 
have 10 winsFlorida sophomore Aleshia Ocasio leads 
the nation — as she has for much of the year 
— with a 0.70 ERA. Right behind her, team-
mate Delanie Gourley is second in the coun-
try at 0.73, with Kelly Barnhill coming in at No. 11 with a 1.37. 
Meanwhile, Alabama State’s leading 
pitcher, Maddie Phelps, doesn’t crack the top 150 with her 3.11 ERA. 
After losing to Auburn, coach Walton said 
UF wasn’t swinging the bat with authority. Florida went just 9-for-47 in the tournament, 
a .191 batting average that won’t cut it on the 
national scale. Florida will have to increase its offensive output if it wants to avoid an-other early exit. 
The team’s best hitter at the moment is 
one of its most inexperienced in the postsea-son: freshman Amanda Lorenz. 
Lorenz leads the team in hits (66), walks 
(46) and is second in runs scored (53). If the season ended today, Lorenz would have the 
highest freshman batting average in program 
history at .400. 
But Florida has no intention of the season 
ending before the Women’s College World Series in June. 
mbrannon@alligator.org
@MattB_727  SOFTBALL,  from pg 18Two Florida pitchers lead the nation in ERA
It makes highlight reels. And on and on.
And yes, I know, I’m part 
of the problem with the “wus-
sification of America,” so in 
anticipation of being called such, let me try and put this another way. 
Suppose that in retaliation 
for being punched in the face, Bautista went back to the dug-out, grabbed a bat and blud-geoned Odor to death in front 
of thousands of excited fans. Surely he’d be charged with murder. 
Let’s say he did the same 
thing but instead of killing 
him, he just broke both of his 
legs. I’d hope he’d get charged 
with battery, but it starts to get hazy. 
My point is when does law 
enforcement actually do any-
thing? 
Certainly it must if some-
body were to get murdered, 
but is that literally the only 
time? 
For whatever reason, Major League Baseball and all other sports leagues are pretty much 
allowed to police themselves. It’s as if stadiums are embas-sies where normal American 
laws don’t apply. 
It also appears that specifi-
cally in baseball, the players 
are all — every single one — vigilantes. 
Go back and watch the vid-
eo of the Odor-Bautista fight and notice how every player on the field, from the benches 
and even from the bullpens 
several hundred feet away, all rush in to get involved.
But of course, only those 
who throw significant punch-es get any sort of punishment, and absolutely no one gets any 
legal punishment. Because it’s 
sports. And hurting people in-tentionally in sports is A-OK, even if it’s got nothing to do with the game. 
Ethan Bauer is the Assistant 
Sports Editor. You can contact him at ebauer@alligator.org 
and follow him on Twitter at 
@ebaueri. 
COLUMN,  from pg 18'Only those who throw signiicant punches get... punishment'Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
Aleshia Ocasio pitches during Florida's 2-1 loss to Alabama on April 1 at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium. Ocasio leads the nation with a 0.70 ERA. 
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s golf team didn’t get what it 
came for at the NCAA Regional Championship in 
Kohler, Wisconsin.
The No. 3-seed Gators began Wednesday’s ﬁ  nal 
round at Blackwolf Run’s Meadow Valleys Course 
with a seven-shot lead over No. 1-seed Illinois.
But as the day progressed, that lead began to dis-
integrate. 
Behind four scores of par or better, the Fighting Il-
lini stormed back and overtook a reeling Florida team 
to capture the NCAA Regional team title.
Illinois ﬁ  red a sizzling 7-under 281 in the ﬁ  nal 
round to push its total to 11 under. Florida ﬁ  nished the day four shots back in second place at 7 under 
par. 
“We just didn’t have it (Wednesday),” UF coach 
J.C. Deacon said in a release. 
“We gave ourselves a chance to win in the last 
three holes but just couldn’t hang in there to get it 
done.”
Round 3 didn’t start out poorly for the Gators, 
though.
Alejandro Tosti, who held the overnight individual 
lead at 6 under par, once again got off to a fast start with a birdie on the par-4 ﬁ  rst hole. The sophomore made consecutive birdies on holes 4 and 5 and shot a bogey-free 33 on the front nine, entering the ﬁ  nal nine with a four-shot lead.
Nine holes stood between him and victory.But Tosti stumbled down the stretch, carding a 
double bogey, a birdie, a birdie, a bogey and a bogey.
Five holes into the back nine, and Tosti’s lead was 
gone.
A bogey on the par-3 17th ensured a second-place 
ﬁ  nish for the Rosario, Argentina, native.Tosti posted an even-par 72 in the third round to 
ﬁ  nish the tournament at 6 under, a single shot behind Ohio State’s Tee-k Kelly. 
Sam Horsﬁ  eld began Round 3 ﬁ  ve shots back of 
UF teammate Tosti.
Horsﬁ  eld, the Southeastern Conference Freshman 
of the Year, needed to get off to a hot start in order to 
catch up to the leaders. 
Instead, he opened with 12-straight pars. 
Horsﬁ  eld went on to collect two birdies and two 
bogeys to card an even-par 72. The Davenport native ﬁ  nished the event in a tie for 12th at 1 under par. 
Another freshman, Gordon Neale, may have had 
the biggest setback of the tournament for the Gators. 
At 2 under with one hole left to play, the freshman 
sized up the 458-yard par-4 18th. He ﬁ  nished the hole with a triple bogey. 
Neale carded a ﬁ  nal-round, 1-over 73 to give him a 
share of 29th place at 1 over par.
Jorge Garcia rounded out the Gators’ top-four scor-
ers. The freshman began the day in the top 20 but couldn’t get anything going in Round 3.
Garcia made three bogeys and a double en route to 
a 3-over 75, placing him in a tie for 38th at 4 over par.
A win would have given the Gators their sixth 
NCAA Regional title in program history and their ﬁ  rst since 2011.
But despite their second-place ﬁ  nish, the Gators’ 
season isn’t over yet. 
The top-ﬁ  ve teams from each Regional advance to 
the NCAA Championship, which begins May 27. 
“We were obviously really disappointed that we 
didn’t win (Wednesday),” Deacon said. “We have an opportunity to play for a national championship … so we’re really excited at the same time.” 
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org 20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator
Alejandro T osti tees off on Day 1 of the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invitational 
at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. T osti ﬁ  nished in second place at 6 under par to lead Florida at the NCAA Regional Championship.
Tosti, Horsield posted under-par scores Florida falls to second place in ﬁ  nal round of NCAA Regionals