We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 135 THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016
Gordon Neale making 
impact for UF men’s golf
The freshman battled back 
from two injuries, pg. 18
State of Sustainability Address 
delivered at Earth Day
About 100 students attended, pg. 3
Asian Paciﬁ  c American Heritage Month
The month will highlight the community’s contributions, pg. 5Check out the Avenue
Caribbean Queen proﬁ  le, music roundup, 
Netﬂ  ix drinking game, comic convention and Ghostbusters, pgs. 8-13
IT WAS FOR TAKE 
BACK THE NIGHT.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
About 300 people shouted 
in English and Spanish as they 
marched through campus Wednes-
day.
Several UF student organiza-
tions hosted Take Back the Night, 
a march and rally about sexual as-sault, from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. Sur-vivors of sexual violence and sup-
porters walked about a mile around 
campus.
Students started on the Plaza 
of the Americas and walked to Ti-
gert Hall, up 13th Street and along 
University Avenue chanting slo-gans like “Unite tonight, take back the night” and “Yes means yes, no means no.” 
The march ended back on the 
Plaza of the Americas.
“It’s a walk of empowerment to 
recognize the survivors of sexual vi-olence,” said Rebecca Kravitz, a UF applied physiology and kinesiology 
and women’s studies sophomore 
and an organizer of the event. “This could be a safer community. We can make it a safer community.”
Before leaving for the march at  Survivors share stories, students march 
SEE NIGHT,  PAGE 4Melissa Gomez / Alligator Staff
During T ake Back the Night, survivors of sexual assault spoke about their stories. For each of those who spoke, a candle was lit.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
A “Community” fan favorite is coming to 
UF.
Danny Pudi, a comedian and actor from the 
TV show “Community,” will perform a com-
edy show in the Reitz Union on Wednesday 
at 7:30 p.m. Pudi will be paid $10,000 for per-
forming, said Kaitlin Milligan, a speakers and comedians co-director with Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment.
Students won’t be able to get tickets in ad-
vance, she said. Doors open at 7 p.m. in the Rion Ballroom on the third ﬂ  oor of the Reitz. 
Only UF students with valid Gator 1 Cards will be admitted on a ﬁ  rst-come, ﬁ  rst-served basis.
RUB has been planning for about two 
weeks to bring Pudi to UF. Milligan said she thinks Pudi will be different from other come-dians who have come to UF.
“It’s more of a comedy show where he 
talks about identity and his life,” she said. “It’s a little different from a typical one-hour stand-
up set. It’s more of a show.”
Ammar Khan, a UF microbiology and cell 
science freshman, said he’s excited to see his favorite actor from “Community.”
“I always thought he was one of the funni-
est characters,” the 19-year-old said.
He couldn’t see previous comedians at UF 
because of his chemistry exams, he said.
“I already missed out on Paul Rudd and 
Trevor Noah,” he said. “Since I realized I did 
not have an exam on this night, I was like, ‘I am for sure going to this one.’” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org ‘Community’ actor to speak  CRIME
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Citing a lack of security footage and a pool 
of about 1,000 construction workers, the sur-
vivor of Tuesday’s attack in the Reitz Union said police will likely not ﬁ  nd her attacker.
At about 6:15 a.m., a tall man in a white 
hard hat shoved the 49-year-old Reitz em-ployee against a wall and grabbed her breast, she said.
The woman, who wished to remain anon-
ymous, said a detective later told her there 
were no active security cameras nearby.
“And that’s when he told me that there’s 
really no working cameras in the Reitz Union 
except for in the bookstore area, which was closed,” she said.
The incident lasted less than two minutes, 
ending after the woman told the attacker her husband was a police ofﬁ  cer, she said.
“It seemed like it was forever, but, in actu-ality, it was over very quickly,” she said.
After the attack, the woman said she re-
counted her story to police several times.
About ﬁ  ve hours later, University Police 
sent an email to students, faculty and staff about the incident.
The email informed recipients about a bat-
tery in the Reitz Union, but it did not specify where the suspect grabbed the woman, only that he grabbed and pushed her.
UPD spokesman Maj. Brad Barber said he 
wrote the email based on available informa-
tion, and that informing the campus about the 
battery was his main priority.
The woman said the term “battery” does 
not fully represent her experience, and that police should release a more accurate update to better inform the university community.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org Concern after Reitz attack  Danny Pudi is coming to UFSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Residence Hall Week
Residence Hall Week contin-
ues today at 7:30 p.m. in the 
Broward Hall basement with 
Casino Night. Professional card-dealers and tables will make for a real Vegas evening. Turn chips 
in for tickets for $500 in prize 
drawings.
‘The House of Atreus’
The UF School of Theatre + 
Dance presents “The House 
of Atreus,” John Lewin’s ac-claimed adaptation of the only surviving Greek tragic trilogy 
that brings alive a royal family’s 
journey through betrayal, mur-der and revenge. The worldview changes for some of the most powerfully depicted characters 
in Western drama as they prog-
ress from their primal motives for an eye-for-an-eye vengeance to a judicial system of law and 
order. “The House of Atreus” is 
showing in the Constans Theatre today through Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets are $18 for the public, 
$15 for senior citizens and UF 
faculty and staff and $13 for UF students. Tickets and more in-formation are available at arts.ufl.edu.
Get in the game with Be The 
Match to save livesThe Athletic Training Program in the UF College of Health and Human Performance is calling 
on every member of The Gator 
Nation to get in the game to save a life! Help UF beat other com-peting universities for the most people registered as potential 
marrow donors on the national 
Be The Match Registry. Register yourself on campus at the first event Friday from 11 a.m. to 2 
p.m. on the lawn in front of the 
Infirmary Building, located at 280 Fletcher Drive, or register and take part in the competition online at join.bethematch.org/
UF. If you are between the ages 
of 18 and 44, patients need you! Learn more at shcc.ufl.edu/be-the-match-uf.
Student input request for over-
night library hours surveyThe Smathers Libraries, along with Student Government, 
requests student input to de-
termine whether the Marston Science Library or Library West is the preferred overnight hours location for the Fall and Spring. While both libraries will con-tinue to provide extended hours during reading and exam weeks, 
student feedback is needed to 
determine which location is preferred for the duration of the Fall and Spring semesters. 
Please fill out the survey at bit.
ly/1UpQYdY to voice your opin-ion. Your feedback is important.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 135
HIGH  81° LOW  54°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
ABOUT 100 STUDENTS 
ATTENDED THE ADDRESS.
By Daniel Smithson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students tossed bean bags 
while answering questions about 
sustainability Wednesday.
The Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability 
delivered its State of Sustainabil-
ity Address at the 2016 Campus Earth Day Celebration on the 
Plaza of the Americas. More than 100 students came by the event to listen to the address and learn about keeping the environment 
healthy.
Curtis Reynolds, the vice 
president of business affairs, 
announced the start of a new program, Neutral UF Coalition, which UF faculty can join to re-duce UF’s carbon footprint.
For the program, faculty mem-bers give $1 from each paycheck, which goes to We Are Neutral, an organization that aims to balance the amount of pollution created with the amount of pollution re-
duced, he said. To offset pollution 
made when faculty drive, they’ll plant trees.
About 35 UF and local envi-
ronmental clubs set up tables at the event to educate students on living a green lifestyle.
Allison Vitt, the Ofﬁ  ce of Sus-tainability outreach and commu-nications coordinator, said the of-ﬁ  ce wanted students to visit all of the tables to learn how they could get involved with sustainability 
on campus.
“We’re trying to get people 
to realize there’s something out 
there for everybody,” Vitt said.
Other activities during the 
Earth Day celebration includ-ed symposium sessions, which taught students green tips.Danielle Chanzes, a UF sus-
tainability studies junior, said Earth Day is important because it allows people to understand the importance of the environment.
“If we don’t do something to 
change our behavior now, our world is going to be in great peril,” the 23-year-old said. “It’s really important to let others know what’s happening with our planet, so they can do something about it.” 
 State of Sustainability Address delivered at Earth Day 
LEFT:
Manny Rutinel, a 21-year-old 
UF microbiology and cell sci-ence and economics senior, left, promotes the Student Animal Alliance by promoting veganism. Rutinel said it’s easy to remem-ber to turn off a faucet while you soap or brush your teeth, but animal agriculture accounts for more environmental problems than any other sector of the en-vironment. “In order to go green, you have to eat green, ” he said.
FAR LEFT:
Gary Sansone, an 18-year-old UF digital arts and sciences freshman, holds his snake, Nao-mi, for the UF Wildlife Society at the Earth Day event on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff Jessica Rodriguez / Alligator4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016
7 p.m., participants created signs 
reading “Not your fault” and “Blame rapists, not boobs.” 
Kravitz said students should 
feel comfortable walking at night.
“It’s taking back the night back 
for us and the survivors,” the 20-year-old.
Diamond Delaney, a UF public 
relations senior, gave the opening remarks. She told the audience she’s a sexual assault survivor.
She said later, when she first 
came to college, she didn’t under-stand what consent was.
“I was taught silence, not how 
to share my story,” she said. “I felt like I could not be anything but a 
victim until I heard other people 
tell their stories.”
Rita Lawrence, the interperson-
al violence prevention coordinator and advisor for Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education, said the event had been held on campus for about 30 years.
“It’s a time for survivors and all 
of us to claim our time,” she said.
Lawrence said STRIVE has been 
planning the march since Novem-
ber. She said it costs less than 
$1,000 to put on the event. Other organizations sponsored it.
Kristen Croft, a UF environmen-tal engineering senior, made a sign to hold during the march.
“It was kind of awkward at first 
but then it was empowering,” the 22-year-old said. “Towards the end, as the chanting got louder, it 
was emotional.”Croft said she holds her keys in 
her hand when she walks alone at night.
“I never feel safe at night,” she 
said. “I think no woman does.”
After the march, survivors of 
sexual assault spoke onstage about their experiences.
“I think it was a really great to 
hear survivors tell their story and 
feel stronger by doing so,” Kravitz said.
@MerylKornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org
NIGHT,  from pg 1STRIVE has planned the event since March
Melissa Gomez / Alligator Staff
About 300 supporters march through UF campus on Wednesday evening as part of the annual T ake 
Back the Night event to raise awareness about sexual assault.
By Paris Olkes
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will raise money for 
a chronic disease through dance Sun-
day.
End Endo UF will hold its first 
Zumbathon event at the Straughn 
Institute of Food and Agricultural Sci-
ences Extension at the Professional Development Center, Room A. While students try Zumba, they’ll learn about endometriosis, a disorder in which tissue that normally lines the uterus grows outside the uterus and is one of the top three causes of infer-tility, according to the event’s Face-
book page. 
Students can register for $7 in 
advance or at the event for $10, said 
Monica Moore, the president of End Endo UF, a club that educates people about endometriosis. There will also be yoga classes and performances from No Southern Accent, a UF a cappella group and Theatre Strike 
Force, UF’s premier improvisation 
and sketch group.
The UF microbiology and cell 
science sophomore said she started planning the event in March 2015 af-ter attending the Greater Gator Con-ference, which encourages freshmen to get involved on campus.
Moore, who has endometriosis, 
said she has always been passion-ate about finding a way to end the disease. She wants students to learn about sexual health disorders.
“A lot of people don’t like to talk 
about sexual health issues, so I think this is going to help break that bar-rier,” the 20-year-old said.
She chose Zumba, a dance fitness 
program that incorporates Latin mu-sic for an aerobic workout, because it is her favorite way to workout, she said.
Laura Laufer, a UF business mar-
keting sophomore, also suffers from endometriosis. She said she is re-lieved the event is bringing attention to endometriosis.
“It’s nice to finally have an event 
to recognize a disease that is usually ignored,” the 20-year-old said.
Moore said the amount raised will 
be announced at the end of the event. She’s hoping to raise about $500.
“The closing ceremony is going to 
be so humbling, because we are go-ing to see the impact that we have on 
endometriosis,” she said.UF group 
holds first 
ZumbathonIT’S BAT-THEMED.
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sally Dash is going to Market Street Pub 
and Cabaret’s Benefit for Bats hoping to 
“laugh her ass off.”
Dash and about 70 others are expected to 
attend the Breakaway Burlesque: Benefit for Bats on Friday at 9 p.m., said Florence Rose, one of the producers for Breakaway Bur-lesque. Admission to the show, which is $7, will go toward the Lubee Bat Conservancy.
“Well, I think the show overall is going to 
be really funny, and I think that people re-ally like to laugh,” the Market Street Pub and Cabaret bartender and producer said. 
Breakaway Burlesque is the newest bur-
lesque group in Gainesville, and this is the 
first time the group has put on a bat-themed 
performance, Rose said.
“It really makes us all stretch our imagina-
tion,” she said.
The show will have 12 acts, put on by the 
group’s 8-member team and a guest perform-er, Rose said. During the one intermission, there will be a game for attendees to take part in.
“It’s (burlesque) dramatic stripping,” she 
said. “Some of the girls are going more dance oriented; I’m going more comedic with my acts.”
Angela Knox, a performer in the show and 
a co-founder of Breakaway Burlesque, said she is a big fan of bats.
“I’ve always found them interesting,” 
Knox said. “I have a lot of bat-themed things in my house.”Batty for burlesque: show to come to Gainesville
Alligator File Photo
An island flying fox bat, native to Indonesia, wraps its wings up for a nap at the Lubee Bat 
Conservatory during the 8th Annual Florida Bat Festival on Saturday, Oct. 27, 2012, in Gainesville, Florida. The conservatory houses more than 200 individual bats of 12 differ-ent species while working with international organizations to save fruit bats and their habitats through research and conservation efforts.
Zumbathon at a glance
Price
• $7 in advance
• $10 at the door
Activities and 
performances
• Zumba
• Yoga
• No Southern Accent
• Theatre Strike ForceTHURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Tickets online at sunfest.com or call 1-800-sunfest (786-3378)
Steve Aoki • G-Eazy • Slightly Stoopid
The Roots • Bastille • Jason Derulo
Walk the Moon • Fitz and The Tantrums
Flogging Molly • Capital Cities
Duran Duran • Alabama Shakes
Meghan Trainor • Train
Death Cab for Cutie • Evanescence
Andy Grammer • Lukas Graham
Coleman Hell • Judah & The Lion
and more!Wicked Jams.
Warm.Waterfront. 
‘nuff said!
For more information including hotel packages, visit 
sunfest.com/comeandstay
Get the App!
Get the 2016 App t o mak e your smartphone 
even smart er, and y ou e xperienc e even easier.5days, 50bands, 3stages
Discover SunFest and The Palm BeachesBy Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF professor is working to cure feline AIDS and 
human HIV.
Dr. Janet Yamamoto, a UF professor of immunology, 
co-discovered feline AIDS in 1986. She was also one of 
23 women honored at UF’s 10th annual Celebration of 
Innovation Startup Showcase last month.
At the showcase, sponsored by UF’s Office of Tech-
nology Licensing, 111 were honored. Yamamoto won 
Inventor of the Year.
But the lack of women represented disappointed her, 
she said.
“They are now placing more females at administra-
tive levels — however, it’s still not equal, including sal-ary,” Yamamoto said.John Byatt, the associate director of technology li-
censing, said about 300 people attended the showcase at the Hilton UF Conference Center hotel. He agreed female 
representation was low.
“It wasn’t a very high percentage, 
unfortunately,” he said.
Yamamoto said she was also the 
only woman inducted into the Florida 
Inventors Hall of Fame last year.
But the immunologist, who has 
been working with cats for more than 30 years, said she’ll continue her re-search. The research costs her about 
$300,000 to do yearly, she said.
Yamamoto said her research can be applied to a vac-
cine for HIV. She said she predicts a vaccine will be de-
veloped within the next five or 10 years.UF professor earns inventor awardCELEBRATIONS WILL 
HIGHLIGHT THE 
COMMUNITY’S 
CONTRIBUTIONS.
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can play Chinese yo-yo 
and get henna tattoos at the Hippo-
drome State Theatre on Saturday.
UF’s Asian Pacific Islander Amer-
ican Affairs Office will host its sec-
ond annual Asian Pacific American 
Heritage Month celebration with a new theme: elevation. The event will start at 11 a.m., said Amy Chen, a student ambassador for APIA Af-fairs.
Chen, 21, said Asian accomplish-
ments are often overshadowed, and this year’s celebration symbolizes the community’s progress.
“We’re moving forward and 
having other people more aware of Asian American issues,” Chen said. “That was part of an inspiration for the theme.”
There will be someone playing 
the veena, a traditional Indian string instrument, as well as poetry recita-tion, said Jeshow Yang, an ambas-sador for APIA Affairs.The UF political science and eco-
nomics sophomore said he grew up in an overwhelmingly white com-munity, so he didn’t see Asian cul-
ture in everyday life.
“To see Asian American students 
putting up an event celebrating the 
culture, food and stuff like that, it’s more impactful for me, more em-powering,” the 20-year-old said.
Steven Noll, a UF American his-
tory professor, said the Asian Ameri-can community has been alienated 
throughout American history.  
“There’s significant stereotyping 
that they are the immigrant group 
that has made it,” Noll said.Asian Pacific American Heritage MonthBy Jessica Schein
Alligator Contributing Writer
There was a time when oranges seemed like a foreign 
delicacy.
Some families used to put oranges under the Christ-
mas tree and hang the peels on its branches, said Gary Mormino, the author of “Land of Sunshine, State of 
Dreams: A Social History of Modern Florida.”
Mormino will speak at the Matheson History Museum, 
located at 513 E. University Ave., at 6 p.m. today. His talk 
on the history of Florida oranges is part of the museum’s 
exhibit Liquid Gold: The Rise and Fall of Florida Citrus.
“I think we are becoming nostalgic about something 
we are losing, and I think people want to know more about that,” Mormino said.
Disease and declining popularity, he said, are caus-
ing orange groves to disappear, allowing Brazil to be-come the top producer. The free event is part of the local 
humanities series Imagining Florida: The Place We Call Home, said Peggy Macdonald, the executive director of the museum. She said a disease often referred to as citrus greening is infiltrating orange groves, causing the fruit to become green, misshapen and inedible.
If a solution to the disease is not found soon, Florida 
may lose much of its license-plate fruit.
“People view orange juice as something too sugary 
and decadent, but it used to be that that was the market-ing of Florida: a glass of sunshine every day,” Macdonald said.Glasses of sunshine: Florida citrus
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
The High Springs Police De-
partment, located in Alachua County, is searching for a man who police said attempted to lure 
about five children into his van 
on separate occasions.
Since March 16, the unknown 
man repeatedly drove his dark-colored van up to children and invited them inside, according to news releases from the depart-ment.
At about 2:30 p.m. Monday, the man drove the van near a 10-year-old girl and attempted to coax her inside, according to a news release from the depart-ment. The incident occurred in the 20000 block of NW 257th Ter-
race, authorities said.
As the man spoke with her, the 
girl became scared and left the 
area, authorities said.
She described the suspect as a 
skinny white man with a scruffy beard and balding gray hair.
The reports began about three 
weeks ago.
At about 8:50 p.m. March 16, the man drove his van by a 16-year-old female and repeat-edly asked if she needed a ride, authorities said. She said the man spoke with a heavy voice.
At about 7:15 p.m. March 28, 
the man appeared to follow three children in his van on Northwest 
239th Terrace, authorities said. 
When the children noticed the suspicious van, they left the area.
In response to the reports, 
HSPD is working alongside other state and local law enforcement agencies to find the suspect, ac-cording to a news release.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice investigate attempted abductionsYamamoto
LOCAL
They’re in High SpringsThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Guest column
Urge Student Senate to conﬁ  rm qualiﬁ  ed nominees
When I became Student Body president, 
I wanted to make sure that diversity was more than just a checkmark. Be-
cause I want to chip away at the rac-
ism, classism and discrimination that 
exists in Student Government — issues that will continue to plague SG going forward.
On Tuesday, the Student Senate chose to re-
ject my nominees for the Supreme Court for pure-ly political purposes. But that’s not the uniquely disheartening part. The majority party in the Sen-ate has routinely blocked my nominations throughout this 
year because I refused to participate in the status quo of di-
viding our students along lines of afﬁ  liation. The uniquely disheartening part of the Senate’s behavior is that they used the guise of diversity as their justiﬁ  cation.
As someone who cares about the true spirit of diversity 
and inclusion, I was and continue to be inﬂ  amed, and, frank-ly, disgusted. My two nominees were law students who went through an interview process after the entire law school was emailed 8 times about the vacancy. I made my appointments 
in February. It took the Senate two months to even hear my 
appointments. Not once did senators raise a question about process or diversity.
Adam Trumbly and Kenneth Cunningham are my two 
nominees. They’re qualiﬁ  ed and unbiased. Adam created a law student organization, does pro bono work and will be interning with the U.S. Department of Justice this sum-mer. Kenneth is a 15-year army veteran and has owned two businesses. They respect the rule of law and the importance 
of the court. But I was told my nominees were not diverse 
enough.
Did I mention Kenneth would be the ﬁ  rst openly gay vet-
eran to serve on the court, or that Adam would be the ﬁ  rst 
Native American? They’re more than just a diversity check 
mark on somebody’s list. They’re human beings. They’re Gators. 
But the Senate still shot them down because 
they didn’t have the right identity — they wanted 
a woman, according to several opposing sena-
tors. I could have appointed the ﬁ  rst LGBTQ+ woman of color to the court, and it still wouldn’t have mattered. The Senate would have rejected 
my nominee regardless. Their actions are driven 
by partisan games and their hatred of me. 
The senators who voted down these students 
showed that their identities as a gay man and a 
Native American weren’t worth anything more to them than 
a political ploy devoid of substance. They revealed a real 
problem in our SG, our university and our wider community. 
On Tuesday, senators prevented two qualiﬁ  ed law stu-
dents from serving and used diversity as a political talking 
point. If diversity was truly important to the senators who 
spoke against these nominees, why was my effort to mandate diversity training for executive branch members blocked by the Senate Judiciary Committee this past Sunday? Diversity wasn’t important April 3, but two days later on April 5, di-
versity is paramount? 
I’ve been disappointed by the divisive and manipulative 
tactics of some student leaders this year but never more than 
this week. I thank the members of the majority party who 
voted with their conscience. I hope they will work with me 
as I spend the remaining days of my administration to ﬁ  ght for two nominees whom I know represent the best of this university. 
Please urge your Student Senate to rise to the occasion 
and conﬁ  rm these two nominees. Find your senator on sg.uﬂ  .edu and reach out to them about two candidates who embody the importance of diversity, qualiﬁ  cations and what the Gator Good is all about.
Joselin Padron-Rasines is the UF Student Body president. 
Her column appears monthly.Myths Un-Mythed: 
immigration 
crime, rape
We live in a world full of myths. Never mind the 
tales of Japanese-animated Italian-American plumbers loading up on mushrooms and picking ﬁ  ghts with ﬁ  re-breathing dinosaurs, nor the tales of an undocumented bunny who can’t keep track 
of his eggs. (And why do we insist on sending our children to pick up after his mess?) No, what we wish to discuss is the collection of falsehoods so many of us commonly accept as “probably true.”
Ann Coulter returned to the political scene April 5 to 
grace us all with her inﬁ  nite wisdom. Now, immediately, we at the Alligator are caught in a dilemma with Coulter: On the one hand, we don’t want to waste our time — or yours — addressing her likely improvised talking points. 
But she made a comment to Chris Matthews on MSNBC that 
can’t go unchallenged. Responding to Matthews on abortion and pro-life, Coulter professed, “Women are going to get a lot more abortions if we don’t close our border with Mexico and bring in all of Latin American rape culture.”
For reasons we can’t fathom, Matthews didn’t even 
question Coulter’s response; he just went on to the next commentator and then ended the segment with, “You’re amazing, Ann Coulter. Thanks for coming on.” Really, MS-
NBC? Well, we’ll pick up where Matthews should have left 
off. Clearly Coulter is trying to score political points, per-haps to regain some momentum for her 2014 book “¡Adios, America! The Left’s Plan to Turn Our Country Into a Third World Hellhole.” Maybe she’s trying to give us a sneak peek of her sequel?
If Latin American culture was really so as complacent 
with rape, then Latin America should top the charts of countries with high rape incidents per 100,000 citizens, 
right? Well, any list we could ﬁ  nd actually only had two 
Latin American countries, Costa Rica and Nicaragua, among the top 10. In fact, the U.S. ranks higher than all of the other Latin American countries.
To these ﬁ  gures, some might react with, “Oh, well, it’s 
probably those illegals doing the raping here, isn’t it?” No, once again, not factually correct. According to a 2015 report from the Immigration Policy Center, immigrants are actu-ally less likely to engage in criminal behavior than native-
born citizens.
This only makes sense: If you’re an undocumented in-
dividual, the last thing you would want to do is engage in 
behavior that would get you tied up with law enforcement. And as far as this craze with the Mexican border, studies from the Pew Research Center reﬂ  ect that net immigration from Mexico is actually below zero, meaning we have more immigrants moving back to Mexico than new immigrants entering the states. So, what’s a wall or stricter border fence 
going to do, keep immigrants in?    
This isn’t to say illegal immigration isn’t an issue, or that 
rapes don’t occur in Latin America: It is, and they do. But 
to speak so generally and inaccurately about these issues only hurts us in the long run. We need to start approaching these issues with more maturity, or at least stop inviting people like Ann Coulter on national television. We’re look-ing at you, 24-hour news media. High ratings aren’t worth misinforming the public.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Joselin 
Padron-Rasines
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Phi Mu
T ailgate Invitational 
April 9th, 3:00 P.M.
Hume FieldBefore he was 15 years 
old, Jose Fernandez was arrested three times for attempting to ﬂ  ee Cuba. Today, he is an MLB All-
Star pitcher for the Miami Mar-lins. 
Without the ability to throw a 
baseball 95 mph, it’s not as easy for other Cubans to successfully defect to the U.S. Even then, many Cubans who do make it here can only hold on to the optimism that “it could be worse.” And 
although talks between politicians of Cuba 
and the U.S. struggle to pragmatically thaw relations, President Obama should look to bridge ties with a language both countries 
understand: baseball.
Barack and Michelle Obama’s atten-
dance at the match between the MLB Tam-
pa Bay Rays and the Cuban National Team was more than just a game. Baseball was 
around before the Castro regime. It was 
around before the Cold War and the current 
era of American politics. Now, baseball in Cuba could be the medium for better rela-tions.
According to The New York Times, 
the MLB submitted a proposal earlier this month to the Treasury Department to allow Cuban players to directly sign with MLB teams. In fact, Tampa Bay, the team to play 
in Cuba on March 22, already has an ofﬁ  ce 
there. The problem is, once Cuban 
players are allowed to move 
freely to the U.S., what hap-pens to Cuban baseball? Local fans fear of the exodus of Cuba’s best players and that coaches will materialize with such an in-evitable deal. However, the U.S. government can work with the MLB to not only keep baseball 
as a cornerstone of Cuba, but also to im-prove relations between the two countries. If Obama wants to improve relations with 
Cuba, he should push for a new MLB team 
in Cuba.
Cuban players want to stay in Cuba, but 
baseball conditions in Cuba make it impos-
sible to establish a livelihood as a baseball 
player. According to The Guardian, current-
ly in Cuba, “top players get a basic salary of $50 a month. Second-tier squad members often need to get secondary jobs to make a 
living.” Diplomatic relations and the sport 
of baseball itself could be salvaged in Cuba 
if it had its own MLB clubhouse.
Sports has trumped politics countless 
times throughout history. If Obama can 
work with the MLB to get a professional 
baseball team in Cuba for Cubans, Ameri-
cans and Cubans can come together under such a ﬁ  ne pastime for both nations.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical 
engineering freshman. His column usually 
appears on Wednesdays.Cuban MLB team could change thingsColumn
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgThe 2016 primaries have 
brought an almost end-less stream of surprises. Former “outsider” candi-dates have outlasted most 
of their well-funded, well-known opponents. As this primary sea-son continually looks like it will be razor-thin, it is clear the most important thing is delegates.
And the delegate procedure 
for each state is vastly different between Re-publicans and Democrats. Republicans have a more complicated system. States usually 
determine the way they distribute their del-
egates — whether that be winner-take-all or proportionately based on votes. The magic number for a Republican candidate is 1,237. It seems, though, that none of the Republican candidates will reach that number by July, which could lead to a brokered convention, but that’s a story for another time.
The Democrats have a more uniﬁ  ed sys-
tem. If the two candidates nearly split the vote, the delegates will be given out pro-portionately. The Democratic primary is not without controversy: Superdelegates have become the topic of debate.  
For those who don’t know, superdel-
egates are high-ranking ofﬁ  cials in the party, but unlike other delegates, they are not be-holden to voters, meaning they can change 
their vote whenever they like to whichever 
candidate.
Many have argued this is undemocratic, 
but is it really? Superdelegates have never been known to go against the will of the American public. In 2008 most of the superdelegates were with Hillary Clinton until it became clear Barack Obama was the stron-
ger candidate. Also, although the 
Democratic Party is not as prone to populist candidates, the superdel-egate system prevents candidates from running who do not want to cooperate with the party but want 
to use its resources. Something similar to a Donald Trump on the left would not be pos-sible with the system in place. This is a sys-
tem many on the right may be envying dur-
ing those upcoming days in July.  
One of the problems is candidates who are 
losing confuse fair elections and their ability to win, which is not guaranteed. Elections are not feel-good exercises; they are bumpy roads that don’t always have a happy end-ing. Political parties want a candidate with the most experience and who is popular with 
the majority of America, not just the hardlin-
ers in the party.
Regardless of who wins the Democratic 
nomination, they have had two remarkable candidates who’ve focused on real issues. Both campaigns have even scheduled an-other debate in Brooklyn for April 14, while the other side seems to be done with debates and, instead, continues to throw insults at 
one another, most likely for the foreseeable 
future.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science se-
nior. His column appears on Thursdays. In defense of the superdelegate systemColumn
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Library to host Fandomonium comic con event 
The event is in its second year, pg 9. What’s inside: 
See this week’s music roundup, pg 10Catch this week’s Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game, pg 11By Laura Gomez
Avenue Writer
To some, Valerie Phillips is bet-
ter known as Ms. Queen.
The owner of Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst 
Jamaican restaurant, Phillips re-
members being called Ms. Queen when she ﬁ  rst opened Caribbean Queen in 2000.
As one of Gainesville’s pioneers 
in integrating culturally diverse cuisine, Phillips has witnessed the city’s restaurant scene ﬂ  ourish.
“When I moved to Gainesville, 
the restaurants were limited,” Phillips said, remembering the city 22 years ago. “You talk to some people and they’ll tell you that Ja-
maican food is not gonna do well 
in Gainesville because the people don’t know about it.”
After seeing other restaurants 
doing well, Phillips took the leap with only one question in mind:
“Why not Jamaican?”The restaurant is now in its 
16th year of serving authentic 
Jamaican cuisine, such as curry 
goat, jerk chicken and oxtail.
Phillips’ ﬁ  rst obligation is to 
authenticity — even if that means 
working 12-hour days. Apart from 
being the owners, she and her husband, Errol Phillips, cook all of the restaurant’s dishes. 
Unlike other restaurants that 
hire cooks, Caribbean Queen sends a welcoming vibe to the community. Their presence en-sures customers the food is 100 
percent Jamaican-made.“It’s one thing to open a restau-
rant and say it’s Jamaican,” she said, “but you have to be able to 
give the people the real authentic cuisine that they’re looking for.”
Born in Kingston and raised in 
Clarendon, she returns to Jamaica 
every Christmas for two things: 
to visit family and to bring back some spices.
“All the herbs and spices that 
we use are from Jamaica,” Phillips said. “The spices is what makes it what it is.”           
Phillips has been cooking since 
elementary school in Jamaica, but before she was crowned Ms. Queen, Phillips worked in the medical ﬁ  eld.
She remembers cooking and 
bringing her lunch to work — ev-erybody wanted some.
“So I said to myself, ‘Well you 
know, I could sell this,’” she said.
Now, Phillips’ happy customers 
come in asking for recipes, which she is pleased to share. For some, 
the cozy shack on Northwest Fifth 
Avenue is a lot like Grandma’s kitchen.
“The most rewarding part to 
me is when a customer will get the meal, and they taste it and they say, ‘This is just like the grand-
ma,’” she said.
Phillips places an emphasis on 
keeping her culture alive. Having 
left Jamaica at 18, she still retains the traditions she grew up with.
“Once you grow up in a cul-
ture, and you grow up until you’re about 17, it’s something that it don’t matter where you go and 
how old you get, you never lose 
that,” she said.
While she’s introduced 
Gainesville to her culture, she has 
also picked up some Gainesville 
traits along the way. 
“I like reggae — like Bob Marley 
and Damian Marley — but what I really like is country music,” she 
said. “I love country music.”THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
Valerie Phillips, known as Ms. Queen, is the owner of Caribbean Queen, 507 NW Fifth Ave. The restaurant is now in its 16th year of serving Jamaican dishes.
Caribbean Queen’s Sweet Sixteen
Celebrating 16 years of authentic Jamaican cuisine in GNV
“The most rewarding part to 
me is when a customer will 
get the meal, and they taste 
it and they say, ‘This is just 
like the grandma.’”
Valerie Phillips
owner of Caribbean QueenBy Lauren Fernandez
Avenue Writer
Given the success of last year’s 
event, the Alachua County Li-
brary District will host a second 
annual Fandomonium comic con-
vention Saturday.
This year, the event will cater 
to a larger audience.
“We’re building on the event’s 
success last year and bringing people into the library to have 
a fun-ﬁ  lled day centered around 
a Comic Con event with activi-ties and events for all ages,” said Nickie Kortus, the marketing and public relations manager for the 
Alachua County Library District.
The free event will start at 10 
a.m. at the Alachua County Li-
brary District Headquarters, lo-
cated at 401 E. University Ave.
Husband-and-wife duo Aman-
da Conner and Jimmy Palmiotti 
will speak at the event. 
Both Conner and Palmiotti are 
professional illustrators who have experience as comic-book artists. Published fantasy author Mer-edith Ann Pierce will also speak 
at the event. The writer was once 
a librarian at the Alachua County location, Kortus said.
Tina Bushnell, a youth services 
librarian and co-chair of the con-
vention, said there will be four 
panel discussions throughout the day, ranging from time travel to cosplay ethics.
Each panel discussion will in-
volve panelists who are relevant to the topic of discussion and a mediator asking questions, she said. Questions will be ﬁ  elded from audience participants as 
well.
“It’s all done in a fun way, al-
though we do try to bring aware-
ness to some of the issues that are involved in the different fan-
doms,” Bushnell said.
The “Ethical Cosplay” panel 
will discuss ethical issues such as 
race, culture, disabilities and gen-
der. The panel will be comprised 
of four individuals who partici-pate in cosplay — dressing up as speciﬁ  c characters from comics, shows, games and movies — at conventions around the country.
Other panels will include 
“Comics Are for Everyone,” “Ta-bletop Roleplaying 101: Enhanc-ing Characters and the DM Expe-rience” and “Time Travel: Future Past Tense.” A complete schedule 
of Fandomonium can be found at 
aclib.us.
A costume contest and fan art 
contest will be held during the 
event. The costume contest will 
be open to all ages and will be judged at the event. Photographer Stacston Carter 
will be taking pictures of the cos-tume contest and providing a free 
photo session to the winner of the 
contest, Bushnell said. 
Food trucks and vendors will 
also be selling food and products 
throughout the event.
With interactive games, a se-
quential arts workshop and mov-ies playing in different parts of 
the library, the coordinators hope the event will cater to a larger 
scope of people.
“We want to appeal to the 
whole community, even people 
that aren’t familiar with what a 
comic con is,” Bushnell said. “It’s 
a library, so we want something that appeals to the whole family.”THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Courtesy to the Alligator
Attendees of last year’s Fandomonium comic con event pose in their costumes. The second annual event includes a costume con-
test and will begin at 10 a.m. on Saturday at the Alachua County Library District Headquarters, 401 E. University Ave.
By Cecilia Lemus
Avenue Writer 
The classic ‘80s ﬁ  lm “Ghostbusters” will return to the 
theater this weekend at the Hippodrome Cinema, located 
at the Hippodrome State Theatre, for its Time Warp 80s 
Night. 
The exclusive showing of the ﬁ  lm will be at 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday in conjunction with the Alachua County Library 
District Headquarters’ Fandomonium comic con event.
“It’s a special night,” said Sarah Kunkler, the Hippo-
drome Cinema director and patron services manager.
The Hippodrome Cinema has hosted Time Warp events in the past, but this is the ﬁ  rst time “Ghostbusters” will be shown. 
Past classics screened include “Back to the Future” and 
“Rocky Horror Picture Show.”
The Fandomonium event prior to the ﬁ  lm’s showing 
will run from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the headquarters branch of the Alachua County Library District, located in down-
town Gainesville. Guests are encouraged to dress up in 
costumes.
Sylvia Ashwell, the Fandomonium coordinator, said 
there were more than 700 guests in attendance last year. 
Among the attendees, some dressed up as characters 
from “Wolverine,” “Catwoman,” “Lord of the Rings,” “Star Wars” and “Game of Thrones,” she said.
Fandomonium guests are encouraged to attend the Hip-
podrome Cinema showing of “Ghostbusters.” Anyone who attends both Fandomonium and the “Ghostbusters” show-ing will receive free popcorn at the cinema with admis-sion.
The cinema holds 75 people and is expected to sell out. 
Advance tickets can be purchased at the box ofﬁ  ce for $12. Attendees are encouraged to dress up in ‘80s or “Ghost-busters” attire.  
 Kunkler said the more people get involved with the 
event, the more fun it will be. 
“It’s contagious and really fun,” Kunkler said.The Hippodrome Theatre warps back to ‘80s cinema
FILM
Alachua County Library to host annual comic convention
Costume contest at eventTHURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016
131
2
3
4
56789
10
11
12
Mildreds and 
New Deal Cafe
Mildreds: fresh, casual, quick lunch and dinner is great for 
date night! Check out our bar dinners at 7pm on Sat nights, 
Reserve at 352-371-1711 or mildredsbigcity@aol.com  
New Deal: UF beef burgers and roman pizzas with happy 
hour from 4-7pm dailyBagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 
am-3:00pm.  
Serving Vietnamese cuisine Pho 
noodle soup and more 
11 am- 9pm. 
1222 W. University Ave. 
352-872-5789Satchel’s Pizza
Missed connections: U 
were supposed to be 
eating my pie. I am fun 
crazy joint. U are the smart 
crazy college kid. 
Find me at Satchel’s Pizza.
Mi Apa Latin Cafe
Your destination for deliciously 
Cuban food in town. Open 
7am-10pm seven days a week 
for breakfast, lunch and dinner. 
Check out our website @ 
miapalatincafe.com for online 
ordering. 114 SW 34th St. across 
from Publix on University & 34th. 
Bring this promo for $3 off any 
meal or sandwich 
(dine in only)Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee 
since 1995. Tea, smoothies, 
sandwiches, desserts, beer, 
wine, spirits and much more. 
Great place to meet with friends 
or study groups. Check us out 
on Facebook–Maude’s Classic 
Cafe or Maude’s Side Car Bar–
for more details and upcoming 
events.Cairo Grille
For some of the most delicious food 
in Gainesville! Come to the Cairo 
Grill! Customers love our selection 
of freshly prepared appetizers, 
salads, entrees and desserts, many 
vegan and gluten-free. The chicken 
beef and lamb kabobs are popular 
favorites. Chef Alialso cooks his 
Egyptian family recipes. Yummy! 
Try something new today!
2410 NW 43rd Street. 
352-727-7071 
gainesville2go.com deliversBallyhoo Grille
Proudly serving Gainesville since 
1998. We offer the most diverse 
options ranging from pasta, 
sandwiches, burgers, sushi, 
salads, flatbreads, grill items, and 
fresh seafood. We also serve 
the best wine and beer in town. 
Happy Hour is from 2pm to 7pm 
daily, plus all night on Tuesdays 
and Wednesdays. If you are 
looking for a unique graduation 
meal, head over to Ballyhoo. We 
have great service and outdoor 
seating that can accommodate 
any graduation party for the 
student’s big day. 
Located at 3700 W University 
Ave. 
325-373-0059Blue Gill Quality Food
Check out one of the best Happy Hours around: $3 wells, 1/2 off 
select wines by the glass, $5 select specialty cocktails, $1 off all 
beers; 3-6 pm Mon-Fri. Located just south of Archer Road on 13th 
Street in the Shands Parking Garage. Private room available. 
Great for rehearsal dinners, student life organizations, and other 
group events. Always taking reservations, call us at 872-5181. Like 
us on Facebook and follow us on Instagram @bluegillqualityfoods 
for upcoming events and daily specials.Blue Gill Quality Food
More than amazing seafood, check out our happy hour 
3-6. Lunch and dinner specials. New cocktail list for winter 
season. Private room available. 3-6 Monday through Friday.
For information on advertising in 
the Guide to Dining Out contact 
Richie Caudill
Alligator 
Advertising
352-376-4482
Vegan2Go Restaurant
7625 West Newberry Rd,
west of the Oaks mall. Thanks for 
many good feedbacks on yelp.com 
and happycow.net. We offer 100% 
dairy/egg-free & meat free menu, 
Non-GMO tofu, no MSG, Gluten, 
soy & oil free options. Some of the 
popular items: spring & summer 
rolls, drumsticks, BBQ skewers, rice & 
noodle combo, superfood quinoa 
salad, curry rice, tempeh rice, veggie 
pizza, philly sub, raw mango salad 
& cheese cake, whole wheat carrot 
cake. 10% student discount. vegan 
meal plan: $95/week. 
Open Mon, Wed, Thu 11am-8pm, Fri-
Sat 11am-9PM.
http://www.vegan2go.us/
352-505-8894Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any day 
of the week. Come in and check out one of the best wine 
lists in town. Ask questions and learn while you wait for the 
chef to put out nothing but goodness from the kitchen 
using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about our 
Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch or 
dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 
6 South Main St.
(352) 375-7372Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, 
waffles, savory waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies. Vegan/gluten free options.
436 SE 2nd St. 
dailygreendowntown.org
Like us on Facebook 
w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3
AmericanBreakfast
CubanCoffeeVeganBar & Grill LocalItalian OrganicLeonardo’s 706
Happy Hour! 4:30-6:30 Mon-
Fri 1/2 priced cocktails
$4.00 Swamphead Drafts + 
House Wine.
Located 706 W University 
Ave. 352-378-2001Happy Hour
Leonardo’s of Milhopper
Great Chicago Style pizza, Quick 
slices now available all day and 
night. On the way to and from 
Santa Fe College. On the corner 
of NW 16th Blvd. and 43rd Street. 
Tear this out for 20% OFF meal. 
4131 NW 16th Blvd in Milhopper 
Square. 376-2001Pizza THE GUIDE TOTHE GUIDE TO
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% 
organic ice cream in 
town! We also have 
an impressive selection 
of organic vegan ice 
cream, baked goods, 
sandwiches, fair trade 
coffee, tea, organic 
beer and free WI-FI. 
Mon-Fri 11am-1am 
Sat&Sun 11am-1amFrozen Treats
Middle EasternRoundup: the best from the beginning of April ff the Record
April has brought along a few albums 
worth listening to. Check them out.
dvsn
 “Sept. 5th”
Canadian producer-singer duo dvsn (pro-
nounced “division”) was a mystery because the two artists only had a few songs online 
by the time their debut album, “Sept. 5th,” 
came out last week. But the two have been generating some buzz thanks to Drake sign-ing them to his label, October’s Very Own, in 
February. The duo’s song “With Me” gained 
some attention when it was played on OVO Sound Radio’s seventh episode on Beats 1 ra-dio. “Sept. 5th” is a great album, and Drake’s co-sign should be enough reason for you to 
listen. OVO has been killing it in 2016 with 
one of the better albums already released in 2016 coming from labelmate Majid Jordan. Meanwhile, Drake is set to release an album 
this month, and PARTYNEXTDOOR will do 
the same later this year. dvsn is next up, and you need to stop sleeping on them and listen to “Sept. 5th” ASAP.
TWENTY88
“TWENTY88”
Last week, Big Sean and Jhene Aiko an-
nounced they were forming a duo and then 
released their ﬁ  rst album together under the 
artist name “TWENTY88” on Friday. Big Sean 
and Jhene Aiko have collaborated a few times in the past and have always made great music together. Big Sean and Jhene Aiko forming a 
duo and releasing an Extended Play was sur-
prising and seemed too good to be true when rumors started circulating on Twitter. At ﬁ  rst, “TWENTY88” was only available for purchase on iTunes and streaming on TIDAL, but the 
album became available to stream every-
where on Tuesday. “TWENTY88” is dope and a must-listen.
Terrace Martin
“Velvet Portraits”
While I usually cover hip-hop, I think a lot of hip-hop fans could appreciate the new 
album from Terrace Martin. This extremely talented jazz and funk musician has worked 
with a lot of different artists. Terrace Martin 
contributed a lot to Kendrick Lamar’s “To Pimp A Butterﬂ  y,” with production credits on many of the songs. If you’ve heard a saxo-phone or other jazz instruments on “TPAB,” it 
was probably Martin. “Velvet Portraits” is ex-
tremely chill and has both lyrical songs and in-strumentals. Take a listen while you’re study-ing or laying out by the pool ignoring your 
responsibilities. The album can be purchased 
on iTunes or streamed on the Bandcamp app.
Kanye West
“The Life of Pablo”
While “The Life of Pablo” has been out 
since February, you were only able to stream 
the album through TIDAL — until Friday. 
West ﬁ  nally made the album available on all 
streaming services and available to purchase at shop.kanyewest.com. If you were one of the 500,000 or more who pirated “The Life of Pablo,” you might want to stream the album on whichever service you use, because Kanye 
has made numerous changes to several of the 
songs. Many of the edits are added vocals or smaller lyric changes. When the album was ﬁ  rst released, many fans wanted the original 
version of “Wolves” that featured Vic Men-
sa and Sia instead of the solo version. Well, Yeezy heard the fans and replaced “Wolves” with the original version but still kept Frank Ocean’s part as its own song. Kanye has made 
it clear he’s going to continue making changes 
to his album, so stream “The Life of Pablo” to keep up with the latest edits.
Jack DaSilva
Avenue WriterBy Nicole Clark
Avenue Writer
With a month left of school, procras-
tination and lack of motivation are at 
an all-time high. Let’s be real — you’re not actually studying. So why not spend your time watching one of the lowkey 
funniest TV shows on Netﬂ  ix? 
With only two seasons, you can’t feel 
bad about watching “Sirens” all in one 
sitting.
The witty, quirky and slightly raun-
chy show follows three Chicago EMTs: Johnny (Michael Mosley), the man-child with commitment issues; Hank (Kevin Daniels), the gay best friend; and Brian 
(Kevin Bigley), the big-hearted new kid 
who is just trying to ﬁ  t in.Johnny’s girlfriend, Teresa (Jessica 
McNamee), provides the much-needed female perspective for the male-domi-nated show, along with characters like Claire “Stats” (Maura Kidwell) and Val-
entina “Voodoo” (Kelly O’Sullivan), who 
are just as quirky as their nicknames.
From pranking each other to saving 
mobsters and giant snakes, this show’s EMTs will have you wishing they could save you from your schoolwork — and in a way, they can.
So go ahead, stop pretending to be lis-
tening to that lecture on double speed: 
Pour yourself a drink and start this new 
Netﬂ  ix series.Take a sip when…
 Johnny avoids being in a relationship with Teresa
 Hank talks about his hook-ups
 Thereʼs any reference to Brian living with his parents
 Hank gives a speech about Johnnyʼs relationship
Take a shot when…
 Hank complains about his ex who left him
 The hierarchy of couch seating is referenced
 Johnnyʼs dad makes an appearance
 You question Billyʼs intelligence
Finish your drink when…
 Guys make Brian do the dirty work
 Thereʼs a ﬁ  ght over who sits in the middle seat in the rig
 Brian messes up Johnny and Hankʼs plans
 Billy mentions his familyIT WILL RUN AT THE HIPPODROME AND 
OAK HAMMOCK ART GALLERY.
By Erica Pope
Avenue Writer
The Hippodrome State Theatre Art Gallery and the Oak 
Hammock Art Gallery are hosting a Dada art exhibit to cel-
ebrate the 100-year-old art movement.
The free exhibit opened to the public on Tuesday at the 
Hippodrome, located at 25 SE Second Place. Retirement com-
munity Oak Hammock started hosting its exhibit Tuesday.
“One of the things you say about Dada art is it’s playful,” 
said Midge Smith, a retired UF professor and current Oak Hammock board member. “It’s imaginary, and it’s making a 
statement.”
The Hippodrome will house the exhibit until May 29, and 
the Oak Hammock exhibit will run until July 9 at Oak Ham-mock at UF, located at 5100 SW 25th Blvd.
Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art curators Dulce Roman and 
Kerry Oliver-Smith will judge the exhibit, according to the Hippodrome website.
The judges will decide how to evaluate the art pieces, and 
money will be awarded to the top winners.
Smith said the exhibit celebrates the 100-year-old anniver-
sary of Dada’s ﬁ  rst appearance in New York City. The art form started in Zurich, Switzerland, as a political protest in 1916 during World War I.
“The artists said this isn’t art, but we’re going to say it’s 
art,” she said. “And because they were putting something off on to the public, it’s the same way political leaders were put-ting something off on the public.”
Dada became its own art form and created other forms of 
art, such as surrealism.
Jane Polkowski Levy, a retired physician and current art 
gallery chair at Oak Hammock, said the exhibit is separated by types of work. The Hippodrome showcases mostly 3-D works, which includes sculptures, she said. 
When the Dada movement began, it was made up of many 
forms of art. Oak Hammock will exhibit only wall art, such as paintings.
“It was more than just visual arts,” she said. “It also in-
cluded theatre as well as written.”
Marion Siegel, the founder of the Oak Hammock Art League and an artist, said the retirement community is home 
to an active art community. The community offers art classes 
and an art gallery.
“Our members are very active,” Siegel said. “Not only 
at Oak Hammock, but I think it should be pointed out that they’re very active in the community.”
Oak Hammock resident and exhibit artist Karl Schwartz 
has pieces also shown in the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, Levy said.
The exhibit includes pieces by Gainesville Fine Arts As-
sociation artists along with Oak Hammock artists, she said.
“It’s a combined effort,” Siegel said.Smith hopes the exhibit helps Oak Hammock get more in-
volved in the local art community.
Her simple request:“Come learn something about us and about what we do.”12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016
Erica Pope/Alligator
Karl Schwartz’s sculpture ‘Cat Steel and Aluminium’ is one of many pieces on display at the exhibit. 
Schwartz is a resident at Oak Hammock and has had his work displayed at the Museum of Modern Art. Erica Pope/Alligator
The Dada art exhibit will run until May 29 at the Hippodrome, and then move to Oak Hammock Art Gallery until July 9. 
By Erica Pope
Avenue Writer
Chain Reaction’s Food and Music Festival will hold 
its third annual fundraiser beneﬁ  ting the March of Dimes 
Foundation this weekend.
The free event will be held on Saturday from 5 p.m. to 
9 p.m. at the Tioga Town Center, located at 105 SW 128th St. in Newberry, Florida.
Anna Hochberger, a UF graduate and a March of Dimes 
youth coordinator, said the event is free but recommends a $5 donation to go toward the charity.
The event has popular restaurants and food trucks ca-
tering the event, including Monsta Lobsta, Pappa Pine-apples and Turnpike Mike’s, Hochberger said, along with 
ﬁ  ve musical acts that are set to perform.
Hochberger said Chain Reaction is a national youth 
council that helps raise funds for the March of Dimes. 
The Alachua County team consists of about 26 high-
school students from varying schools committed to raising 
a collective, yearly goal of $50,000.
“They call themselves the baby-savers,” Hochberger 
said. “They are very, very passionate about this.”
The March of Dimes began under the Franklin Delano 
Roosevelt presidency to cure the polio virus when FDR asked the public to march their dimes to Washington to help fund research, she said. 
The mission changed to premature birth and birth de-
fects once the polio vaccine was discovered. 
Florida has a more-than-9-percent rate of premature 
births, which is higher than the national average, Hoch-berger said.
Gidon Herman, a music instructor at Studio Percussion, 
said both of the bands he plays with, Bound & Determined and The What, will be playing at Saturday’s fundraiser. 
The bands are considered educational groups, which 
means they don’t receive money for performances.
The ages of the band members playing at the event 
range from 14 to 66 years old. 
Herman said this will be the second time both bands 
have played at the festival, and he was happy to have been asked last year by the festival’s coordinators to play at the event.
“I was like, ‘Oh my gosh, guys, we got to do this,’” he 
said.
The What will play at 7 p.m., and Bound & Determined 
will play at 8 p.m.
Stephen Langer, a Studio Percussion volunteer and The 
What band member, said he has been with the organiza-
tion for 10 years. 
Studio Percussion placed an ad looking for someone 
to play bass with its student-house band, the 66-year-old 
said.
“And I thought, ‘Well, I can do that,’” he said.The idea of a nonproﬁ  t music school was new at the 
time, Langer said. 
He wanted to get involved because the people were in-
teresting and the organization offered services to kids who 
may not have the opportunity otherwise.
“They have a professional experience of what it’s like 
to be in a functioning rock ‘n’ roll band,” he said.
The band plays a mix of rock music, including Led Zep-
pelin, Ozzy Osborne and Three Doors Down, and Langer 
enjoys being able to share music he considers signiﬁ  cant to his younger band members.
“I get to play music with a 14-year-old kid,” Langer 
said. “How cool is that?”Festival to support 
March of Dimes 
LOCAL GNV celebrates art form’s 100th year
“They call themselves the baby-savers. They are very, 
very passionate about this.”
Anna Hochberger
UF graduate and March of Dimes youth coordinatorTHE CRAFT SHOW IS 
ON SATURDAY.
By Raegan Daley
Avenue Writer
Local entrepreneur Virginia 
Lynn aims to boost local business 
sales at a craft show Saturday.
As the owner of Virginia Lynn 
Enterprises, Lynn helps promote local artists and small businesses. She is the ofﬁ  cial organizer of the craft show, which begins at 11 a.m. at One Love Cafe, located at 4989 NW 40th Place. 
With small businesses in 
Gainesville sometimes not having enough customers, Lynn hopes One Love Cafe will provide the consumer trafﬁ  c needed for these businesses to be successful.
Lynn sells an eco-friendly prod-
uct called EZ Go Packs. She said the bag is reusable and convenient.
“You can wash the bag, dry 
it and it also comes in different prints,” she said.
Her clients use it for beach or 
pool days, grocery shopping or to store coins.
“You can use it for absolutely 
anything,” she said.
The ﬁ  rst event of its kind be-
gan in March and will continue throughout the year. It will recur every second Saturday of each month.
Small businesses like Origami 
Owl will showcase products at the event.
The company specializes in 
making Living Locket charms, which tell stories with each charm.
Melissa Lingis is one of the 
Gainesville representatives for Ori-gami Owl.
“For me, it is not about ﬁ  nancial 
freedom,” Lingis said.
Instead, it’s about pursuing her 
hobby.
“I like hearing how excited peo-
ple are when they hear about the product,” she said.THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
LEFT:
Virginia Lynn, a local entre-preneur, will sell her EZ Go Packs at One Love Cafe on Saturday. 
BELOW:
Lynn’s EZ Go Packs are re-suable, and many of her customers use them for the beach or grocery shopping. They come in a variety of prints. 
Photos courtesy to the Alligator
Local entrepreneur aims to boost GNV sales at craft showBy Chase Granger
Avenue Writer
Gainesville company Self Narrate will 
host Story Slam: Everything Changes in 
Keene-Flint Hall, Room 50, today from 6:30 
p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
The free event is open to the public and 
features six speakers from the Gainesville 
community who will share life lessons they 
have learned.
According to the organization’s website, 
Self Narrate’s mission is to encourage peo-
ple to tell stories and to use storytelling to create connections and solve problems.
“Our goal as a company is to create 
spaces that help people learn what their own stories are and how to share those sto-ries with others,” said Brandon Telg, a co-
founder of Self Narrate and the facilitator and director of client services.
The stories from Story Slam will range 
in topic from transformation, tragedy, love, 
college, empowerment and more.
“I don’t use the phrase ‘life-changing’ 
lightly,” Telg said. “But that is exactly what this night is going to be for the people who 
attend.”
Among the speakers at Story Slam, three 
of them are former TEDxUF speakers. Jen-
nifer Aponte, a former attorney from Puerto 
Rico, is one of those speakers.
“I’m thankful for my experience with 
TEDxUF,” Aponte said. “It taught me how 
important it is to share my story with oth-ers.”
Aponte has been living with disability 
all her life, beginning with her childhood diagnosis of spina biﬁ  da, which left her wheelchair-bound. Her time at Story Slam will be spent sharing the losses and suc-cesses she has dealt with as a result of her 
disabilities.
“Everyone is going to encounter bad sit-
uations in life,” Aponte said. “But there are 
always ways to make them better.”
Society’s attachment to technology is 
another reason Aponte said she hopes peo-ple will attend Story Slam, so they can hear impactful stories for themselves.
“Storytelling brings us closer together as 
human beings,” Aponte said. “Story Slam is a great place to foster the kind of connec-tions that can help people overcome their own problems while also gaining empathy for the problems of others.”
Jaron Jones, the other co-founder of Self 
Narrate and the opening speaker at Story Slam, will also touch upon the importance of using stories to unify people.“We all have similar wants and needs, 
and I think people will be surprised to ﬁ  nd 
that we all have similar difﬁ  culties as well,” 
Jones said.
Jones said his story is lighter than some 
of the others because it is meant to draw the audience into the event.
“I don’t want to give too much away,” 
Jones said. “But I’m going to focus on how a singular moment can cause a big change.”
Self Narrate’s goal is to continue to host 
at least one Story Slam event each academ-ic year. The last event was held during Fall 2014, Telg said.
“These are stories that a lot of people 
really need to hear,” Jones said. “Our hope 
is that by bringing strangers together to 
hear these stories, they realize they are not alone and that they will not be strangers by the end of the night.”Company invites Gainesville speakers to share life lessons
LOCALTHURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
4-20-15-72-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    5-10-16-21-2
Blocks From UF - 1st Mo Free!
3/1, 4/2 & 5/3. From $1400/mo
Reserved parking. Pet friendly
352-359-5584    dalyproperties.com    4-20-
16-13-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
Home for the Outdoor Enthusiast!
10 min drive from UF, 3/2, 1891 sf, $235,000, 
photos can be seen at http://9215cr2082.
canbyours.com/. Call Mike, 352,665-0073   
4-13-16-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
Ready to Move in!Mobile Home for Sale!!Location Oak Park Village.2b/1ba, dishwasher, w/d, a/c, covered porch, new paint & floor!Call to make an appointment352-538-0303    4-8-16-3-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-1297 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
4-12-15-14
LIVE IN HOUSE MGR
For a co-ed Co-Op near UF in Gainesville. 
Wanted single mature adult, NO UNDER GRADUATES MAY APPLY, ideal for PHD student or Veteran student, with several years of graduate study ahead. Must enjoy working with students, responsible, diplo -
matic and assertive. Position starts in May. Compensation - bedroom, utilities, parking & meals included in exchange for housing responsibilities and monthly stipend. Email cover letter and resume to apply.clo1931@gmail.com. Background check required, must be bondable, NO PETS. We will email you a complete job description upon receiv-ing your information.    3-29-16-5-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDEDFull time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
Prep Cook / DishwasherFull-time for large sorority house. Experience is a plus, but will train the right individual. $9.00/hr. to start with the raise after proba -
tion period. Must be able to start Aug. 8, hours M-F 11 to 7. Background check re-quired. Email resume and cover letter to frat-mgmt@gmail.com.    4-12-16-10-14
Chef/Cook –Begin 8/15/16 - 1 person kitchen/ must be able to order food in quantities needed, plan menus, prepare and cook lunch and dinner from scratch for average 80 per day. Manage the kitchen from A to Z. Need to have posi-tive attitude, imagination, and creativity, not stubborn/flexible, Safeserv Certified/will pay for class and test if needed. Background check, alcohol, drug, health checks will be run. Email resume or letter as to experience with salary history. No salary history = no call back. Starting salary $500 per wk. frat-mgmt@gmail.com    4-12-16-10-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
A - $1000 Daily Returning Phone Calls. No selling, no MLM, No Limits. Not a job. Brief Overview: 877.860.6161.    4-7-16-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Oak Hall School is hiring Summer Day Camp 
Counselors. Visit www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment for details and application information. Group interview on 4/16 at 9 AM.    4-15-16-12-14
Master Builder CampIs Hiring For The Summer!Science/Design/Arts/Tech play-based learn -
ing day camp seeking dynamic and energet -
ic counselors to join our team. For more info: www.masterbuildercamp.com    4-8-5-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working student for part-time work in land maintenance on weekends. $10/hr. Contact matt@knellinger -
law.com or 352-591-3000     4-8-5-14
Want to Earn Some Extra $$$
Kelly Services is looking for individuals to 
work a 10 day project April 19-28th as couri -
ers/messengers in a hospital setting. Day, 
Evening and Overnight shifts are available 
starting at $10/HR. Apply online at http://qrs.
ly/gt52jb2 or call 352-335-7800 TODAY!   
 4-13-7-14
Front Office Assistant for busy Dermatology practice in Gainesville. 3-4 days/week.  Duties include scheduling appointments, checking patients in and out, coding and posting charges, collecting payments, an-swering phones and other duties.  Looking for a professional individual with good com-puter and interpersonal skills. Experience in a medical office desired, but willing to train motivated individual. Ideal position for recent graduate or student interested in healthcare business career.  Salary with benefits avail -
able. Send cover letter and resume to daop -
portunity@aol.com    4-11-16-5-14
PART TIME BABYSITTER WANTED FOR SUMMER, can continue in fall if interested. For kids ages 7-13. $12/hr.Experience required. Email resume andreferences to rosenson@ufl.edu.    4-11-16-3-14
UF Health Valet Service--HPM ParkingMake money while running!Tip based - $8 to $12 per hour352-594-6231      4-8-2-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Graduation Photos by Gator Alum$150 for 1 hour session on UF campus30-40 edited digital imageswww.facebook/BoriginalArt.comCaryn Ruano (954)629-4861    4-7-16-5-15
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 23 Rides 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Diego Hidalgo was the only 
Florida men's tennis player to win in singles play in UF's loss to Virginia on Wednesday.Read the story on pg. 19.By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Kelly Barnhill stumped the UCF offense 
Wednesday.
The freshman gave up just one run in 
five innings of work as No. 2 Florida beat the Knights 3-1. UF (35-3) capitalized on a sub-
par pitching performance from UCF’s (24-14) 
2015 All-American Shelby Turnier.
Kelsey Stewart singled on the first pitch 
to kick-start Florida’s offense. Fellow senior Kirsti Merritt got pegged by a pitch, and fresh-
man Amanda Lorenz walked to load the bases with no outs. After a pop out and a strikeout, 
junior Chelsea Herndon reached safely on a 
fielder’s choice, bringing home Stewart to put 
UF up 1-0. 
After Turnier walked Taylore Fuller with 
the bases loaded, Merritt scored, putting the Gators up by two. 
With the 2-0 lead, Barnhill (13-0) went to 
work. 
She struck out six batters in the first three 
innings and didn’t give up a hit until the fourth. 
But after giving up a leadoff walk and a 
single to start the bottom of the fourth, Barn-hill was pinned with no outs and runners on first and third. But the freshman struck out 
the next hitter and induced a 5-4-3 double 
play to close the inning.
“I thought Kelly and Delanie (Gourley) did 
a really nice job tonight,” coach Tim Walton 
said in a release. “However, the play Nicole 
DeWitt made in the fourth inning for us to 
turn that double play was the difference in the 
game.”
The Knights finally got to Florida in the 
fifth. 
Barnhill hit the leadoff batter, who ad-
vanced to second on a sacrifice fly. 
Jasmine Acevedo slapped a single to right-
center field, driving in a run and cutting the 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Austin named SEC Player of the Week
Florida women's tennis sophomore Brooke Austin was named the 
Southeastern Conference Player of the Week for the second time this season on Wednesday. Austin went 4-0 in doubles and singles play in Florida's last two matches, helping the Gators defeat LSU and T exas A&M.Freshman pitcher leads Gators over Knights
TWO ATHLETES AND TWO 
COACHES WERE SELECTED.
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
The Florida swimming and diving team 
received four honors from the Southeast-
ern Conference on Wednesday.
Sophomore Caeleb Dressel was named 
the SEC Men’s Swimmer of the Year and senior Kahlia Warner was named SEC Women’s Diver of Year. In addition, head coach Gregg Troy was named the SEC Men’s Coach of the Year and diving coach Dale Schultz was named SEC Women’s Diving Coach of the Year.
Dressel entered the national spotlight 
after claiming two individual national titles while also setting multiple swim-ming records in both the 50-yard freestyle (18.20 seconds) and 100-yard freestyle (40.46) at the NCAA Championships in March.Meanwhile, Warner captured two indi-
vidual SEC championships in the 1-meter and 3-meter dives at the SEC Champion-ships in February, along with two All-America honors at the NCAA Champion-ships. 
Troy, who completed his 18th season 
as the UF men’s swim coach, helped guide the No. 3-ranked Gators to their fourth-consecutive and 37th overall SEC title, as well as a third-place finish at the NCAAs. 
Schultz helped lead Warner and the UF women’s team to 19 total victories on the diving boards this season, including two SEC championships.  
Twenty-one Florida swimmers will 
spend the next three months training for the Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, and 13 will be competing for a spot on the U.S. swim team at the U.S. Olympic Trials in Omaha, Nebraska, beginning June 26.
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.org 
Florida swimmers and coaches honored with SEC awardsBy Graham Hack
Sports Writer
Will Grier has found a landing spot.
The former UF quarterback will transfer 
to West Virginia, WVU announced Wednes-
day, and will sit out the 2016 season per the 
NCAA’s transfer rules.
Grier led the Gators to a 6-0 start in 2015 
before being suspended for testing positive 
for performance-enhanc-ing drugs. 
During those six games, 
the quarterback threw for 1,204 yards, 10 touch-downs and three intercep-
tions, completing over 65 
percent of his passes.
Grier, who came to 
Gainesville as the No. 2-ranked dual-threat quarterback prospect in the 2014 recruiting class according to Rivals.com, expressed his 
intention to transfer to coach Jim McElwain 
after finishing his exams at the end of the 2015 Fall semester.
It is unclear when Grier will be eligible 
to play for the Mountaineers.
Had he remained at Florida, he was 
scheduled to be eligible by UF’s Oct. 15 game against Missouri, 12 months after his suspension began.
However, the NCAA hasn’t stated 
whether the 12-month suspension will be satisfied through the year Grier sits out as a transfer, or whether he will still need to serve an additional six-game suspension to 
start the 2017 season.
@graham_hack24 
ghack@alligator.orgWill Grier 
transferring to West VirginiaFOOTBALL
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kelly Barnhill pitches during Florida's doubleheader sweep of Jacksonville on Feb. 17 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
Barnhill allowed just one run
Grier
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 1818   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016
SALES REP
OF THE MON TH
MARCH 2016
JOSEPH FITZGERALD
major: adv ertising
CONGRA TULATIONS!
lead to 2-1.
The Knights kept up the pressure 
in the bottom of the sixth. 
After a leadoff walk and a single, 
Walton swapped Barnhill for Gour-
ley. Barnhill left the game after strik-
ing out seven, walking three and giv-
ing up three hits. 
Soon after, Gourley got out of the 
inning with a ﬂ  yout and two strike-
outs. 
Merritt started the top of the sev-
enth with a double to right-center. Then Lorenz, who went 2-for-3, 
stepped up and singled to left-center. 
A walk loaded the bases, and then 
junior Nicole DeWitt walked to drive 
in Merritt, giving Florida its third 
run. 
Despite loaded bases and no outs, 
Turnier got out of the inning without giving up any more runs, and Florida 
went into the bottom of the seventh 
up 3-1.
“Offensively I thought our at bats 
are good, but we just didn’t get a hit 
when we had runners in good situa-
tions,” Walton said.
Gourley retired UCF’s last three batters in a row to put the game on ice. The lefty earned her third save 
of the season and second this week. 
Florida will take the ﬁ  eld again 
Friday at 7 p.m. for a three-game se-
ries against Ole Miss in Oxford. 
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgSOTFBALL,  from pg 17Gourley retired the game's last three batters to earn her third saveTHE FRESHMAN BROKE HIS 
ELBOW A MONTH BEFORE HIS 
FIRST COLLEGE CLASS. 
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Gordon Neale came to Florida as one of the 
most heralded junior golfers in the country.
As a high schooler, Neale was on top of his 
game.
In 2014, he ﬁ  nished runner-up at the Junior 
PGA Championship. As a result, Neale was 
also selected to represent the United States in 
the 2014 Junior Ryder Cup — one of the most 
distinguished tournaments in all of junior golf.
In April 2015, Neale, who was once a strong 
Southern Methodist University commit, signed a National Letter of Intent to play his college 
golf for head coach J.C. Deacon and the Uni-
versity of Florida, joining a freshman class that 
included top juniors Sam Horsﬁ  eld and Jorge 
Garcia.
The future was looking bright for Neale. 
The native of Dove Canyon, California, was 
set to help the program take ﬂ  ight in Deacon’s 
second year at the reigns. 
Then things changed in a hurry.
A broken left elbow just a month before 
classes began slowed Neale’s momentum.
“I was messing around running around in 
the gym one day last summer, and I slipped in 
a yoga mat that was lying on the ﬂ  oor,” Neale 
said. “My feet went out from under me, and I landed on my left arm.”
The injury sidelined him for three months. 
His dream of teeing it up on the college 
stage was halted. 
Neale would make a recovery, though. And 
ﬁ  nally, on Sept. 25, he got a chance to play for his team. His ﬁ  rst time in the Gators’ ﬁ  ve-man lineup came at the Dick’s Sporting Goods Col-
legiate Challenge where he ﬁ  nished in a tie for 40th. 
But his ﬁ  rst appearance in a Florida uniform 
would also be his last for quite some time. 
One day after practice at the Mark Bostick 
Golf Course, Horsﬁ  eld gave Neale a ride back 
to his dorm. Neale hopped on the back of Hors-
ﬁ  eld’s bike, and the two took off — in the dark-ness and the rain.
Neale fell off the bike and fractured his wrist. 
More time lost.It was this adversity that Neale had to deal 
with. While his teammates enjoyed the glory of competing and winning, Neale recovered, 
working and waiting for the next opportunity.
“Not one time did that kid come and com-
plain to me,” Deacon said of Neale. “He al-
ways said over and over, ‘I’m going to earn it, 
and I’m going to show you.’” 
At the Mason Rudolph Championship, Neal 
showed him.
Neale ﬁ  red opening rounds of 70 and 68 to 
take a two-shot lead over Horsﬁ  eld entering 
the ﬁ  nal round. After months of dealing with 
adversity, Neale was ﬁ  nally doing what he set out to do when he pledged to play golf for the Gators back in 2015 — compete.
And although a 1-under 70 wasn’t enough 
to ﬁ  ght off Horsﬁ  eld during the ﬁ  nal round, it still meant something. Neale ﬁ  nished in sec-ond place alone at 5 under par. It was the best ﬁ  nish of his career.
Back to doing what he loves, Neale still isn’t 
satisﬁ  ed, though.
“Second place in a really big event, and he 
wasn’t satisﬁ  ed at all,” Deacon said. “He was kinda pissed off that Sam beat him, and that’s 
what you want.
“He’s hungry, and he’s not gonna stop until 
he’s the champ.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgAfter uphill battle, Neale ﬁ  nally making impact for UF men's golf
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Gordon Neale lines up a putt during the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 21 at the 
Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
The Florida men’s tennis team 
has been as hot as any program in 
the country over the past few weeks, winning eight of nine matches and 
skyrocketing more than 25 spots in 
the national rankings from Feb. 27 to April 5.
On Wednesday night, however, 
the No. 14 Gators (12-5) were out-matched, falling to the defending na-tional champion Virginia Cavaliers 5-2 at the Ring Tennis Complex in Gainesville.
“Gotta credit UVA,” coach Bryan 
Shelton said. “Those guys are very talented… I thought they were really prepared to come out here and com-pete tonight, and they really showed a lot of grit and determination to get the win.”
Wednesday night’s loss to the 
No. 3 Cavaliers (18-3) snapped UF’s 
six-match winning streak, as well as 
its perfect record at home this sea-son. However, there were still some positives Florida’s coaching staff took away from the defeat.
“It’s another step that we’re tak-
ing,” Shelton said. “Being able to see what a national championship team looks like. We don’t feel like there’s a 
big difference between them… (and) some of the other schools that we’ve 
played. There’s just small margins in all of these teams, and so I feel like our guys truly believe they can beat anyone in the country.”Florida started the day strong, 
winning the doubles point for the 12th time this season.
Following a 6-4 loss from the 
Gators’ duo of juniors Elliott Orkin and Maxx Lipman, freshman Alfredo Perez and sophomore Chase Perez-
Blanco responded, winning their set over J.C. Aragone and Collin Altami-
rano 6-4.
That left UF seniors Diego Hi-
dalgo and Gordon Watson against UVA’s Ryan Shane and Luca Corin-teli. The two pairs battled back and forth in the set, with Hidalgo and 
Watson ultimately pulling out a 6-4 victory.
But Florida would not have the 
same success in singles, with Hidal-
go the only player to come out with a victory. He did, however, defeat defending national singles champion Ryan Shane 7-6, 5-7, 6-4 for his 12th 
victory this spring.
Orkin and Perez-Blanco both 
struggled in their matches, losing in 
straight sets to Thai-Son Kwiatkows-ki and Aragone, respectively.
Freshman McClain Kessler got off 
to a fast start in his battle with Luca Corinteli, taking the first set 6-3. The first-year player from Calhoun, Geor-
gia, was unable to finish off the win, 
however, dropping the final two sets 6-2, 6-3.
The Gators won’t have much 
time to recover from Wednesday night’s loss to Virginia, as they are set to face No. 7 Georgia on Friday at 5 p.m. in Athens. Florida is currently one match behind the Bulldogs for 
first place in the Southeastern Con-
ference standings, and will most likely need to defeat UGA in order to have a shot at the regular season SEC championship.
“Our goals are tied to that match,” 
Shelton said. “This team has set the goal early on that they wanted to be conference champions, and there 
is only one way to get that done. 
We’ve got to win on Friday night.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgFlorida’s home winning streak snapped by Virginia
RONBECK AND PIRRECA 
COMBINED FOR FOUR 
GOALS ON SATURDAY.
By Kyle Brutman
Sport Writer
The Gators were without junior midfielders 
Mollie Stevens and Carli Marsh.
But stepping up in their place was Florida’s No. 2-ranked freshman class. 
In Florida’s 10-9 win over Temple on Satur-
day, the group was responsible for four goals, including the game winner with 4:16 left from freshman Lindsey Ronbeck.
Midfielder Caroline Benitez made her first 
career start, platooning with senior attacker Devon Schneider early in an attempt to try to catch Temple off-guard.
Freshman Haley Hicklen, who relieved se-
nior Mary-Sean Wilcox in goal in all but two games this season, was able to help thwart Temple’s offense during a second half that saw just two goals from both sides.
And while midfielder Madi Hall made just 
one statistical contribution on Saturday — her first ground ball pick up of the season — it was 
perhaps the game’s most crucial play.
With the Gators up 10-9, the Owls took pos-
session off a turnover by sophomore attacker 
Shayna Pirreca with 2:41 left in the game. But with 55 seconds remaining, senior defender Sydney DuPre caused Rachel Schwaab to turn the ball over, and Hall was there to pick up the ground ball, ending Temple’s final possession of the match.
“It’s their hard work day-in and day-out,” 
coach Amanda O’Leary said of the develop-
ment of the freshmen. “... To see some playing 
time come to fruition, it was good to see.”
While the freshman class impressed against 
Temple, two newcomers — Ronbeck and Syd-ney Pirreca — in particular have impressed all season long.
 The duo, which was responsible for all four 
of the freshman class’ goals on Saturday, have been the stars of the group. And of the two, 
Ronbeck has statistically been the most pro-
ductive, contributing 22 combined goals and assists.
For a player just one year removed from 
high school, she has already played lacrosse at some of the highest levels of competition. She was a member of the 2015 U.S. Women’s Na-tional Under-19 Team, helped Team USA win a silver medal at the World Championships and 
led her high school to a state championship in 
2014. 
The experience she gained before arriving 
at UF has given her a better understanding of the game.
“Lindsey’s lacrosse IQ is off the charts,” 
O’Leary said.
O’leary added that there was a gameplan 
that Ronbeck had been going over all week 
prior to UF’s win over Temple.
“She just executed what we had worked on 
all week, which was that drive from goal line 
extended,” O’Leary said.
“So, it was good for her, I think, to execute 
that, having worked so hard all week on that specific move.”
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.orgFreshmen gaining experience, stepping up for UF lacrosse
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Lindsey Ronbeck runs toward the goal during Florida’s 14-4 loss to Maryland on March 19 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
Only Hidalgo win in singles
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Diego Hidalgo returns a ball during Florida’s 6-1 win over Troy on Jan. 17 at the Ring T ennis Complex.
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2016
