We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 64 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016
Florida football wins on ﬁ  nal play
See photos from the game, pg. 14
UF student organizes laughing event
It was to examine forced laughter, pg. 5
New GNV music venue to open in spring
Live performances will be recorded and live-streamed, pg. 5About 1,000  walk in Freedom 
from Fear march
A Trump supporter was tackled, pg. 4
FLORIDA 16
 LSU  10
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
A group of fans jump with excitement at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium after the Gators won the SEC East title. The University Athletic Association hosted a watch party on the ﬁ  eld for the UF vs. Louisiana State University game on Saturday afternoon.
By Ian Cohen 
Sports Writer
It would be difﬁ  cult to overstate 
the magnitude of the moment.
A stadium of 102,043 fans sat in uncomfortable silence in Death Val-
ley, holding their breath, waiting through timeouts and play reviews to see what would become of a game 
that began long before the players 
took the ﬁ  eld for the ﬁ  rst time early Saturday afternoon.
Florida’s 16-10 victory over LSU 
was a drawn-out process that be-gan in October. Hurricane Matthew 
forced the Southeastern Conference 
to postpone the Gators’ game with the Tigers, resulting in four weeks of tension and insults, hurled from both sides, all leading up to a dra-matic matchup with SEC Champion-
ship implications.
It escalated even before the kick-off when players had to be separated 
during a warmup scufﬂ  e, then cre-scendoed through the game: an LSU score on the ﬁ  rst drive, a UF 98-yard  ATLANTA BOUND: 
Gators earn second straight berth in SEC title game
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
After members of the UF chapter of Delta 
Tau Delta fraternity expressed support for Presi-dent-elect Donald Trump, the fraternity’s house was vandalized last weekend.
Between Saturday night and Sunday morn-
ing, three of the house’s columns were spray-painted with hearts above a black swastika, 
“Trump” and the word “rape.” A 12-pane kitch-
en window was also broken, said Gainesville Police spokeswoman Lt. Tscharna Senn, but no one was hurt.
On Saturday, as people marched down West 
University Avenue protesting Trump, some members of the fraternity waved a Trump ﬂ  ag outside the house, located at 1926 W. Univer-sity Ave., and shouted back at protesters.
William Hunter Hedman, the president of the chapter, said members were exercising their right to free speech.
“It’s just unfair that people generalize cer-
tain things about us,” the 21-year-old UF eco-nomics junior said. “We did nothing wrong. We provoked nothing.”
GPD will investigate the incident, Senn said. 
Similar incidents such as these are often  inves-tigated as hate crimes.
Kevin Kimbrough, a member of Delta Tau 
Delta, said the vandalism does not reﬂ  ect the fraternity’s values or the values of Saturday’s 
protesters.
“We don’t want to generalize them as peo-
ple who vandalize either,” the 22-year-old UF 
computer science senior said.
On Sunday night, UF President Kent Fuchs 
tweeted that he was saddened by the incident.
“I denounce all statements and symbols that 
hurt or disparage,” he said. Frat house vandalized 
after anti-Trump protest
By Katelyn Newberg and Paige Fry 
Alligator Staff Writers
 
Jeremy O’Brien Murillo was shocked to see 
a racist message on a bulletin board on the ﬁ  rst 
ﬂ  oor of Beaty Towers East on Tuesday night.
The message read “F--- Black People.” By 
the time O’Brien Murillo saw the message, 
it had been crossed out to read “Respect all 
people (regardless of race),” but the expletive 
could still be seen. 
“It’s really troubling that this is occurring on 
campus,” the 19-year-old UF political science 
freshman said. “There’s no words that can re-ally describe how pathetic that is and how it’s not really representative of the university as a whole.” 
Sharon Blansett, the assistant director of 
housing for public/governmental relations, 
declined to comment on the situation. On Thursday, David Parrott, UF’s vice president 
for Student Affairs, sent an email to students in the residence hall stating that a “message 
espousing a racist point of view” was written 
on a door in the hall. In the email, Parrott con-demned the message and said it was painted over Wednesday. 
“Messages of this sort are against every-
thing the university is trying to do to create a welcoming campus for all students,” Parrott said.
Kevon Smith, a black student living in Beaty 
Towers, said the message proved racism still exists, although he has not experienced dis-crimination at UF.  
“The world doesn’t revolve around one 
speciﬁ  c religion or culture, so we have to be respectful of other people’s thoughts and opin-ions,” the 20-year-old UF sports management sophomore said. Students react after racist 
message found in Beaty Towers SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Bass Pro Shops Santa's 
Wonderland
   Today, the new Bass Pro Shops 
in Gainesville, located at 2650 
Bass Pro Shops Blvd.,   will transform into a sprawling Christmas village including rustic Christmas cabins, ani-mated holiday characters, in-
teractive talking caribou, live 
elves among snow-covered hills, illuminated Christmas trees and free activities for the whole family. Beginning at 5:30 p.m., Bass Pro Shops will host a Christmas parade in the store parking lot, fea-turing local high-school cheer-leaders, a marching band and Santa’s grand entrance on a Sun tracker pontoon boat. There will be giveaways every half hour from 5:30 p.m.- 7:30 p.m. Following the parade, there will be a tree and vil-lage lighting. 
‘Trashformations’ at the 
Florida Museum of Natural HistoryEver wonder how milk jugs morph into beautiful wading birds or how gears and gad-gets become gigantic bugs? See how Alachua County middle school, high-school and college students trans-form waste into works of art. The museum will display the winning entries from the 18th Annual Trashformations from now through Nov. 28. This event is made possible in part by the Alachua County Solid Waste & Resource Recovery and the Alachua County Board of Commissioners.
‘A Christmas Carol’
Don’t miss the wonderment and joy of the Hippodrome State Theatre's most recent rendition of the classic “A Christmas Carol,” featur-ing Scrooge, Marley and, of course, Tiny Tim Dec. 3, Dec. 10 and Dec. 17 at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. It will also run Dec. 19 and Dec. 20 at 7 p.m., and Dec. 21 and Dec. 22 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Share the time-less messages of redemption, charity and goodwill with your children for the first time — or the 39th. Kids get in free Saturday at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. with a donation of nonper-ishable food for Bread of the Mighty Food Bank or new unwrapped toys for Toys for Tots. This deal stands for up to two free children per pay-ing adult. Other restrictions may apply, and this offer is only available while supplies last. Call the Hippodrome Box Office at 352-375-4477 for ad-vance reservations.
The Longest Table Gainesville
   Enjoy a free dinner and dia-
logue designed to strength-en relationships and unite 
the community as everyone 
works together to enhance the 
quality of life in Gainesville 
and Alachua County during 
The Longest Table on Dec. 4 
from 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. at 
Depot Park Water's Edge, 200 
SE Depot Ave. Each attend-
ee is encouraged to bring at 
least one nonperishable food 
item to this event, which will be donated to Bread of the Mighty Food Bank.
Caroling the Ravines, pre-
sented by Friends of Ravine Gardens
 The Florida Department of 
Environmental Protection's 
Ravine Gardens State Park 
and the Friends of Ravine Gardens Inc. are hosting their ninth annual Christmas event 
— Caroling the Ravines — 
on Dec. 10 from 6 p.m. to 9 
p.m. Take a musical wagon ride around the lit-up park as you enjoy featured perfor-
mances from talented singers, 
and get your Christmas shop-
ping done early by visiting lo-cal vendors. Come visit with 
Santa or have your photo 
taken with him. A variety of 
delicious foods, sweets and 
drinks will also be available for purchase from local food 
vendors. Admission to the 
event is $2 per person or $5 
per vehicle (up to 8 people), 
which includes park entry.  Proceeds from the event will 
benefit the Friends of Ravine 
Gardens, Inc. Luminaries will 
be on sale for $5 each for a 
decorated luminary bag with the person’s name on it.  
Proceeds from the luminaries 
will benefit local projects by 
the Pilot Club of Palatka.
Entries for science photo con-
test due Dec. 20
The Elegance of Science art 
competition is now accept-ing entries and is open to UF 
students, faculty and staff. Submit your 2-D research images or photos that incor-porate scientific tools or con-cepts for a chance to win cash prizes. The contest is orga-nized by the Florida Museum of Natural History and the Marston Science Library. Submissions are due Dec. 20. For contest rules or to view past winners, visit flmnh.ufl.
edu/eos or call 352-273-2013.
APIACare (Mental Health): fi-
nal exam care package
Mental health is an issue 
that affects everyone. This 
finals season, Asian Pacific 
Islander American Affairs 
would like to encourage ev-
eryone to prioritize mental 
health by providing students 
with care packages that in-
clude items such as coffee, 
medicine, hygiene products and more in order to promote successful and healthy study-
ing during finals. If you’re a 
pet owner, APIA has created 
a Paws and Claws care pack-age filled with toys, treats and resources you can share with 
your pets. Also, APIA has a 
care package made for chil-
dren, because the organiza-tion acknowledges that some UF students and faculty have 
young children at home, so 
balancing family, work and 
school may be tough. Be sure to take care of yourselves and the ones you love: your peers, 
pets and children.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to msmith@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” sub-
missions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
HIGH  68° LOW  37°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 64
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson, 
  Cameron Wallace  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandMONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHON
THEY CARRIED BLUE 
AND PINK BALLOONS
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Nick Antonelli, 29, silently 
marched across UF’s campus Fri-
day to show support for lives lost in the transgender community. 
“It’s not just about passing as 
male or female,” the Gainesville resident said. “It’s about embrac-ing everyone and having compas-sion for everyone.”
He joined about 15 Gainesville 
LGBTQ+ members and allies of the community for a Transgen-der Day of Remembrance march. They held signs with the names of 
transgender people who have been 
killed in 2016. They carried blue and pink balloons with “#black-
translivesmatter” written on them. 
Eighteen of the 26 signs they held identiﬁ  ed murdered black trans-gender people. 
Kayla, who uses they/them pro-
nouns and declined to give their last name, organized the march for UF’s Pride Student Union’s Trans 
Week. 
“Transpeople can’t live their 
day to day lives without fear, so 
this is for them,” Kayla said. 
As they walked, people stared 
and read the signs. One man on Turlington Plaza yelled at the group, “You think you can change things by walking together?”
But the group continued. At the 
end of the march, Kayla said walk-ing in silence and being yelled at made them think about how trans-gender people walk around scared and in silence every day.
Twi, 26, who uses they/them 
pronouns and also declined to give their last name, said as a nonbinary 
member in the community, the si-
lence reminded them of what they face daily.
“People don’t believe that we 
suffer oppression on a daily ba-sis,” the Santa Fe College journal-ism student said. “This has always been my normal.” 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  GNV locals march to honor 
lost transgender lives
UF PRESIDENT KENT 
FUCHS WAS IN A MEETING 
WHEN THEY ARRIVED AT 
HIS MANSION ON FRIDAY.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
After a weeklong rally, members 
of a graduate assistant labor union 
shook the Dean of Students’ hand Friday outside of UF President Kent Fuchs’ mansion as they handed her 
a box full of messages from graduate 
assistants. 
About 16 members from UF’s 
Graduate Assistant United walked from their ofﬁ  ces in Yon Hall to the mansion to deliver more than 250 notes advocating for lower fees.
Fuchs was in a meeting when 
they arrived, but UF’s Dean of Stu-
dents Jen Day Shaw took the notes 
and promised to deliver them to him. 
“Grad assistants are the back-
bone of this university, and President Fuchs knows that,” Day Shaw said, 
adding that she knows Fuchs wants 
to raise graduate assistants’ salaries. 
Members of GAU stood on the 
Plaza of the Americas last week to collect notes from students. Under-graduate students wrote about why they appreciated graduate assistants, and graduate assistants wrote about what they couldn’t afford because of 
fees.
“Paying for my heart surgery,” 
someone wrote. “Daughter’s college 
savings.” “Thanksgiving dinner.”Charles Shields, the communica-
tions chair for GAU, said the union is disappointed they weren’t able to speak to the president in person. Day Shaw told them Fuchs would be open to meeting with them, Shields said. 
“We are deﬁ  nitely going to take 
him up on that,” he said.  
He said the union has been work-
ing on lowering fees for years, and they can’t let up on the ﬁ  ght. Ten to 20 percent of graduate assistants’ salaries go back to the university due to the fees, Shields said. 
Alec Dinnin, a co-president for 
GAU, said the union is looking for-ward to talking to Fuchs, adding that he believes the UF president will work in their best interest. Until the fees are lowered, he said the union will continue to advocate. 
“We’re not looking forward to 
collaborating with him next year,” he 
said. “We want to do it now.” 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org 
 GAU delivers notes about graduate student fees to UF oﬃ   cialTRANSGENDER PEOPLE KILLED IN 2016: Grace King / Alligator Staff 
FOOTBALL FRENZY
Emily Hennum and Faith Waskiewicz, an 18-year-old UF nursing freshman, nervously watch the UF vs. 
Louisiana State University game in The Swamp. Hennum drove all the way from Orlando to watch the game with her friend.
• Dee Whigham
• Skye Mockabee
• Erykah Tijerina• Kristell Barahona
• Rae’Lynn ThomasBy Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
During an otherwise peaceful march 
against President-elect Donald Trump, 
which drew more than 1,000 people Sat-
urday, a small fight broke out between 
a Trump supporter and an apparent pro-tester.
Members of the crowd waved signs, 
shouted chants and sounded bullhorns as they began their march from the Stephen C. O’Connell Center to Bo Diddley Com-munity Plaza, where Gainesville Police later estimated about 1,500 people gath-
ered.
“This is what democracy looks like,” 
some chanted.
Walking alongside the group, about 
10 counter-protesters chanted pro-Trump 
messages, with one Santa Fe College stu-dent waving the president-elect’s cam-paign sign attached to a flagpole.
As the march made its way past Mid-
town, someone from the crowd tackled the Trump supporter, who later identified himself as 23-year-old Tommy Grooms, in what appeared to be an attempt to take 
his sign.
“He jumped up and dragged my sign 
pole and tried to drag me down,” the Santa Fe nursing sophomore said, adding 
that the assailant appeared to be wearing 
a mask and ran off immediately after. 
Shirley Rodriguez, who helped orga-
nize the march with other Gainesville 
activist groups, said whoever attacked 
Grooms probably was not involved in the 
protest, which she said aimed to unite the 
city and empower minority groups.
“Just showing the community that we 
have an outpouring of love, to show that 
Gainesville is a city of resistance and we 
are going to fight back the hateful rhet-
oric,” said Rodriguez, a former undocu-mented immigrant and member of the LG-BTQ+ community.
Walking past the UF chapter house of 
the Delta Tau Delta Fraternity, Brooke Eli-azar-Macke, 32, carried a large cardboard cutout of Trump’s head with the phrase “This oppresses women” across his face.
“The people, united, will never be de-
feated,” she chanted, while members of the fraternity stood on their lawn waving a Trump flag and shouting back at pro-
testers.
“The frat stuff we just passed was ter-
rifying,” the Gainesville resident said.
Eliazar-Macke said after the election 
she became afraid of backlash against people of color, immigrants and Muslims living in the U.S.
“I am glad that in Gainesville it seems 
like it’s small,” she said.
At about 5 a.m. Sunday, a Delta Tau 
Delta brother noticed someone had van-
dalized the house’s columns, spray-paint-ing hearts over a swastika — and over 
the words “rape” and “Trump.” GPD will 
investigate the incident, said department spokeswoman Lt. Tscharna Senn.
When the protesters reached Bo Did-
dley Community Plaza, they continued 
chanting as others played instruments. 
Children ran around the lawn as com-
munity leaders voiced concerns about 
Trump’s impending presidency.
The Trump supporters remained, 
standing underneath Groom’s waving flag. While some protesters attempted to debate the supporters, about a dozen protesters formed a wall in front of them, 
their signs stretched out over their heads.
Justen Baker, a 23-year-old Santa Fe 
networking service technology senior, 
stood with the supporters holding a sign reading, “You lost, go home.”
Baker said he wanted to attend the 
protest to have fun and “get a rise out of 
people.”
Although many protesters reacted an-
grily toward his group’s presence, Baker 
said some stopped to have discussions 
with him.
“People’s opinions need to be heard,” 
he said. “What I don’t agree with is peo-
ple’s complete lack of respect for the Elec-toral College, the democratic system and 
what this country stands for.”  
As one of the community members ad-
dressing the crowd, UF professor Zoharah 
Simmons said Gainesville needed to band 
together to fight sexism, racism, white 
privilege and Islamophobia, which she said Trump represents.
“We must commit ourselves to this 
long-distance struggle,” she said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org 4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
Lynn Black-Murphy and Ellen Cunningham walk down University Avenue as a part 
of the Freedom from Fear march on Sunday afternoon. Cunningham’s “It’ll be okay. Really” sign expressed her optimism and hope for the future, she said. 
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
Kevin Lemos, a 19-year-old UF computer engineering freshman, holds up a sign outside of a BP gas station on Saturday. He was one of the few students who supported Donald Trump at the Freedom from Fear march.
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
Hundreds of Freedom from Fear protesters stand on Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Saturday afternoon after they marched nearly a mile down University Avenue.
Trump supporter tackled as about 1,000 march in election protest
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
Angela Knox, 30, a Gainesville resident, stands covered in words Donald Trump has called women while she protests his presidency on Saturday afternoon during the Freedom from Fear march.There was a counter-protestMONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
FOR 30 MINUTES, ABOUT 
50 STUDENTS FORCED 
THEMSELVES TO LAUGH. 
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
On Friday, Tatyana Kornilova, 
18, laid down next to about 50 
others in the Fine Arts Courtyard 
and laughed for 30 minutes. “People started laughing, and 
then we couldn’t stop laughing,” the UF art freshman said. “It was very surreal.”
Emily Bonani, a UF art senior 
with a specialization in sculpture, said the event was a piece called “Look What We Got Away With.” The 22-year-old directed it in four parts, as a way to show the dark side of laughter. Through the event, she was able to keep the crowd laughing at nothing. 
She said the goal was to show 
how forced laughter differs from natural laughter. Similar to cry-ing, it is a powerful action people experience on a daily basis, she said. 
“It’s something that eases us, 
that unifies us, but it’s also some-thing we use as a coping mecha-nism,” Bonani said.
To prepare the crowd to laugh, 
Ilyusha Mann, 21, performed a 
song on his ukulele and sang 
about memes and laughing at one another. 
“We can either laugh at a thing 
or we can laugh at nothing,” the 
UF art senior with a specialization 
in sculpture sang.
Learning to laugh is as impor-
tant as breathing, he said. It gives 
us life. 
“It opens us up and it’s an im-
portant means of human connec-
tion,” he said. 
After having the participants 
compete in a laugh-off and lie on 
the ground, Bonani directed ev-
eryone to stand up and laugh one last time before falling silent. 
“It was an event, this magical 
thing that occurred, and it was 
exhausting,” Bonani said. 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgUF student organizes campus laughing 
event to examine forced laughter
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
A line of five women compete in a laugh-off against a line of five 
men  during an art exhibit held in the Fine Arts Courtyard on Friday.  Emily Bonani, the 22-year-old host, instructed about 50 people where to stand or lie down to laugh.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Tyler Poon, a 19-year-old UF mechanical engineering student, cracks up in the Fine Arts Courtyard on Friday during a landscape art exhibit put on by Emily Bonani, a 22-year-old UF art senior with a specialization in sculpture. Bonani instructed about 50 student participants where to stand or lie down before telling them to start laughing. Poon said he could not stop laughing even after Bonani told her participants to stop.
HE RECEIVED IT FOR A BOOK 
HE WROTE AFTER THE DEATH 
OF TRAYVON MARTIN.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF professor won the National Book 
Award for nonfiction this year for a book 
about racial tensions in the U.S.
Ibram Kendi, a UF 
professor of African-
American history, said 
he was shocked when 
they called his name during the National Book Award Foundation ceremony Wednesday in New York City. 
“It’s not something I 
ever dreamed of,” Kendi said. “It seemed 
unattainable to win this award.”
Kendi’s book, “Stamped from the Be-ginning: The Definitive History of Racial 
Ideas in America,” discusses the devel-opment of racism in the U.S. He began writing the book in 2012 after the death 
of Trayvon Martin, a 17-year-old African-
American who was shot and killed in San-ford, Florida. 
UF President Kent Fuchs, who tweeted 
about Kendi’s award, said he is proud of the UF faculty member.
“This is the kind of thing we all cele-
brate,” Fuchs said. “He’s giving talks about the book around the country and mention-
ing he’s from the University of Florida. 
This brings prestige for all of us.”
Fuchs said Kendi will speak at the com-
mencement ceremony for the doctoral stu-dents this Fall.
Kendi said he plans to work to promote 
a discussion about race in the U.S. through his writing and teaching. 
“Certainly, this is not my last book, 
but I’m still sort of deciding what I will do next,” he said.UF professor wins national award
HER FRIEND WAS CONCERNED 
FOR HER AFTER THE ELECTION.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A Newberry, Florida, woman was arrested 
Friday after threatening to run over her friend, who was concerned about her following the presidential election, the Alachua County Sher-iff’s Office said.
At about 10:30 p.m., 64-year-old Kerren Kris-
tine Kloever received a visit from the woman, who called and left a voice message saying she would come over, according to a police report.
The woman pulled into Kloever’s driveway, 
located in the 2800 block of NW 182nd St., but the front gate was closed, according to the re-port. Kloever then sped down the driveway, tell-ing the woman she needed to leave or else she would run her over.
When the woman refused, 
Kloever then opened the gate, 
returned to her car and drove into the woman, pinning her 
between both cars, according 
to the report. She then kept going forward, putting pres-sure on the woman’s knees.
Kloever then backed up to 
her house and left the woman 
lying on the ground yelling for help, according to the report. The incident left red marks on both of the woman’s knees.
Police arrested Kloever on a charge of ag-
gravated battery. Authorities took her to the Alachua County Jail where she was released on Saturday on a $40,000 bond. As of press time, Kloever could not be reached for comment.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgACSO: Newberry woman 
threatens to run over friend
Kloever
Kendi
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new music venue focused on 
live recordings is set to open this 
spring.
At Heartwood Soundstage, which 
is to be built near Depot Park at 619 S. Main St., all performances will be filmed, recorded, live-streamed and later produced as videos, co-owner 
Dave Melosh said.
Melosh, the owner of the 
Gainesville recording studio Medusa 
Productions, said the venue will be the first of its kind in North Florida, 
and it will help showcase artists vis-
iting the city.“Our goal is to present the bands 
that play the stage in the light, as if 
they were a national act,” he said, 
“and treat them that way, and film 
them and produce them in such a way that showcases their talent.”
The venue, which will have a 
150-person capacity, was inspired 
by now-defunct local venues like The Jam and Common Grounds, 
which were artist-focused and aimed 
to provide a holistic musical experi-
ence, Melosh said.
“Nothing will fill the hole left by 
The Jam — it was such a huge part 
of this community — but we cer-
tainly want to channel the love and 
sense of community they brought,” Melosh said.
Blake Briand, the former owner 
of The Jam, said while Heartwood won’t replace his former business, 
he expects patrons of The Jam will naturally migrate to Heartwood.
“I think it might function a lot dif-
ferently but feel similar,” he said.New GNV music venue, recording studio to open in springThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORThe National 
Thanksgiving 
Turkey Presentation 
Perhaps one of our favorite American traditions is the Na-
tional Thanksgiving Turkey Presentation. At this cere-mony, the president of the U.S. is presented a live Broad Breasted White turkey. Here, the POTUS pardons the turkey from his death sentence, otherwise to be served 
scrumptiously next to some mashed potatoes and cranberry sauce.
You know who probably really hates the turkey that got 
pardoned? The turkeys they end up killing to eat during the Thanksgiving meal. Seriously, every Thanksgiving the White House hosts a Thanksgiving feast, and it’s not like they don’t serve turkey. Some turkeys had to die in order for that meal to happen, and the fact that the POTUS pardons just one or two birds seems like a silly concept. Plenty of nonviolent turkeys go unpardoned in the course of the year; how these two get selected seemed a curious mystery for us here at the Alligator.
After doing some research, we found out this tradition is 
much more of a formal process than you would think. It turns out that turkeys, like all other birds, are really sensitive to loud noises and bright lights. Moreover, most don’t show their best decorum in big crowds. Naturally, it would be expected for these birds to be really misbehaved in a setting where many people are using ﬂ  ash photography to take professional photos while shouting and cheering at the act of pardoning. How is it then that these turkeys are always so well-behaved?
Turns out there is a selection process that turkeys unknow-
ingly partake in. These turkeys are raised like all other turkeys that are eventually going to make it to the dinner table. They are fed a grain-heavy diet full of corn and soybeans, ultimately making them larger and meatier. Then, the National Turkey Federation chairperson — yes, that’s a real thing, and yes, that’s a real position for said thing — goes to their farm and selects about 80 turkeys among thousands that are trained to handle sudden movements, loud noises, ﬂ  ash photography, lots of people and physical interaction with those people. More in-teraction is given to those 80 turkeys, and then 20 of the largest and best-behaved are chosen to proceed. This process continues until only two are left. After these two are chosen, the White House staff decides what to name the little cluckers. Some of our staff’s personal favorites are “Stars and Stripes,” “Biscuits and Gravy,” “Marshmallow and Yam,” “Cobbler and Gobbler” and “Mac and Cheese.”
The rest of the turkeys among those thousands end being 
the star of a plate near you. Moreover, the life of a pardoned turkey isn’t that much more glamorous. In fact, most die within a year of their pardon due to health problems commonly as-sociated with obesity. Remember how we said turkeys are fed a diet to make them super meaty? It turns out that diet is super unhealthy for turkeys and exists more to feed humans than our feathered friends.
This year, the selection process has begun. Apparently, two 
unnamed turkeys from Storm Lake, Iowa, will be pardoned in President Barack Obama’s last National Thanksgiving Turkey Presentation in ofﬁ  ce. We here at the Alligator are beyond ex-cited to see what their tongue-in-cheek names will be.
Be thankful, stay true to yourself and keep the faith
It’s almost time for a break! This is ex-
citing. Time to eat your body weight in stufﬁ  ng, watch some football and then 
fall asleep on the ﬂ  oor at 6 p.m. Thanks-
giving is also a time for family, which ex-
cites most people I talk to. However, this year more than any other, I’ve heard people sigh 
with dread when I bring up Thanksgiving. I 
ask why they feel this way, and it has been the same answer every time.
“I have to deal with (insert relative here) 
who voted for/supports (insert presidential 
candidate here) and won’t stop gloating/whining about 
the outcome of the election.”
If we’re being honest, the holidays are always kind 
of a weird time. You may end up staying somewhere 
you don’t live or having people at your house who don’t 
live there. You eat a lot, and sometimes you eat foods you aren’t used to. Too much food (and/or drink) can make you sleepy and confused. I get it. However, this isn’t an excuse to behave inappropriately. I don’t think 
that arguing is inappropriate behavior, by the way. I’m 
talking about the cold shoulder. I’m talking about ig-noring each other, dancing around the issue or talking behind each others’ backs about how upset you are.
Here’s the deal: I know there are a great many peo-
ple dissatisﬁ  ed with the election results. Even some of those who voted for the winning candidate are not that happy about it. I don’t know why you would have voted that way if this is the case, but I digress. I am in no way 
saying you cannot be happy if you’re happy or upset if 
you’re upset. Please have feelings. This is how we make a difference in the world. Widespread complacency is worse than constant arguing. I stand by this statement. 
Even when I have to log off Facebook because I ﬁ  nd 
myself starting to growl at the computer, I stand by this statement.I am not asking you to stop caring. I am 
asking you to also care about those you love. Tell your relatives what you think. Listen to 
them explain their thoughts. If you think a de-
bate is a good solution, go for it. If you think you’ve reached an impasse, let it be. Please don’t let it ruin your holiday.
There is work to be done. I truly don’t be-
lieve we’re doomed. I believe our country is capable of incredible things because of the sheer amount of drive and determination our citizens exhibit. When a family member inevi-
tably says something about this topic, be thankful. At least they care. At least they are thinking, in some facet, about important issues. You can be the bigger person, and this doesn’t mean you should let them walk all over 
you. This means you should display your views in a ma-
ture, kind manner with emphasis on education rather than humiliation or bickering for the sake of bickering. If they don’t want to hear it, that’s ﬁ  ne. There comes a point in which you’ve done what you can.
I know this isn’t easy. I know sometimes people 
would rather just roll their eyes and stomp off than work things out. I know it can be especially hard around family. You don’t owe your family (or anyone) 
respect if they don’t respect you, but you owe yourself 
peace of mind. You owe yourself the ability to enjoy the holiday season without walking on eggshells or biting your tongue. Be thankful for the ability to debate these issues and the ability to have differing points of view. 
Be thankful for your autonomy. Have faith that things 
will be OK, and don’t give up the ﬁ  ght. Stand up for your beliefs, but allow yourself to enjoy the crispy bits on the green bean casserole, too.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF psychology and journalism 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Just because the election is over doesn’t 
mean we should just sit back and allow the next four years to pass us by. Repub-licans won not only the presidency, but the House and Senate as well, meaning 
they could wield a massive inﬂ  uence — includ-ing the appointment of Supreme Court justices and presidential appointments. Despite the number of Republicans who seemed to oppose Donald Trump, like Paul Ryan, it looks like op-position to Trump from within the Republican Party has just melted away. 
For a party that criticized President Barack 
Obama all eight years of his presidency for be-ing a Muslim from Kenya, their current criti-cisms for the protesters ring hollow. Republi-cans were quick to express dissatisfaction with Obama both times he was elected, and yet, they think Democrats have rushed to judge the new president-elect. A president cannot take away our right to express our dissatisfaction with his policies. At the same time, the reasons Trump won must be analyzed. Those who oppose Trump must look within to see how we can better organize mo-bilization in future elections — it’s clear the lesser of two evils was not enough to make Democrats win.
We shouldn’t have to compro-
mise with a president who threat-ens the very existence of Muslims and immigrants while he threatens the rights of many more. The stakes are simply too high. It wasn’t good enough to rely on Trump to dig himself into a deeper hole. In order to dismantle his opinions, you have to confront each head-on. Many will argue it’s time to stand with Trump now that he has been elected. “Give him a chance,” they say, “he hasn’t really had a chance to govern.”
Even if that were true a week ago, it’s not 
true anymore. He has had the chance to ap-point people to his administration, and in the process he has revealed the direction his ad-ministration is going. It no longer makes sense for him to distance himself from those who have endorsed him if he is going to pick these people to serve in his ad-ministration.
Trump supporters react quite 
strongly if someone attacks their beloved president-elect about rac-ism, homophobia or discrimination in general. They ﬁ  nd someone else to blame it on. “Trump isn’t homo-phobic, it’s Pence,” they’ll say. But why would Trump nominate these 
people knowing that they are discriminatory? Since Trump is picking advisers who exclude huge swaths of the American population, this further reinforces the “Not My President” rhet-oric. No matter who elected him, Trump has to recognize he’s now the president of all Ameri-cans, and he must protect all of them. If he doesn’t, we must hold him accountable. 
Trump is known for prioritizing loyalty 
above all else, so it’s not surprising that Jeff Sessions, one of his ﬁ  rst and most ardent sup-porters, was picked for attorney general. How-ever, this appointment is unacceptable. His racism and homophobia will mean that hate crimes will not be a priority. Another appoin-tee was Steve Bannon, the executive chairman of the alt-right, white nationalist website Breit-bart. These are hardly benign people who have yet to show what policy they want — their policy positions are clear. 
Advisers are supposed to be specialists in 
policy that make you better. In contrast, the Trump appointees only serve to echo his rac-ism and further his misinformation. While the results of the 2012 GOP autopsy were not tak-en to heart, I hope they will not use this elec-tion to solidify their racism. Change still needs to happen. Despite the fact that a racist, mi-sogynist and homophobic team was voted into the White House, people need to continue to organize for change in the midterms and 2020 elections.
Nicole Dan is a political science and 
journalism junior. Her column appears on Mondays.
A week ago, I spectated the anti-Donald 
Trump rally that was hosted by the Radical Student Association (RSA), and what I witnessed was disturb-ing. I heard the foolish spewing from 
both sides: the RSA’s representative speaker declaring, “I hate America,” and the Trump supporter in a U.S. hat shouting, “Leave our country.” However, what I saw was even more horrifying. I saw the convulsions of my fellow students’ faces, spit ﬂ  ying from their mouths as they attempted to scream all they could, and the little twitches in each of them when you could tell they’ve had enough – 
it was the tangible manifestation of how we 
have all felt during this grueling election year. It was fear, anger and confusion.
And “we” is not a liberal we, nor a con-
servative we. It is an “us,” it is American – and I’m going to stress this point as much as I can.
According to a Pew Research, “More than 
half of Democrats (55%) say the Republican 
Party makes them ‘afraid,’ while 49% of 
Republicans say the same about the Demo-cratic Party,” and furthering that, 70 percent of Democrats believe Republicans are close-minded individuals, and 52 per-cent of Republicans believe Demo-crats are close-minded. Sounds a bit like two children — who can-not yet understand compromise 
— ﬁ  ghting over a toy they should 
share. And if you don’t believe this identity-politicking nonsense ex-ists and is rampant, then listen to this exchange by the two represen-tatives of each side today:
“F--- you!”“No, f--- you!”“F--- you!”
That is verbatim. Yeah. It’s sad. This cul-
mination of angry, hateful and painful rheto-
ric is the result of a gratuitous and fruitless attempt at discourse. And these same at-tempts have been the discourse of our 2016 election year. Political campaigns might not have been so direct in their diction, but in one way or another, both sides were essen-tially telling their opponents to f--- off.
And I know we are all angry, scared or 
confused. We’re angry at the results of the election or angry at those who won’t accept the election. We’re scared of the other side imposing their beliefs on you and confused as to what we should all be doing now. Yet, as we sit here and wallow in our jarring amalga-mation of emotions, have any of 
you been asking yourselves the 
questions that matter? Why did this happen? What am I angry with? How did we come to be so divisive?
It should be obvious by now 
to anyone who wasn’t there on Turlington Plaza last Monday that 
the discussion or “rally” — which was not a 
rally in any way, as it wasn’t a mass meet-
ing of people, and they provided no argu-ments, only attacks �— didn’t reach a pro-fundity that would address these questions. However, if you have been asking yourself these questions or questioning this election process in general, then you’ve done much better than these ignorant shouters have. Rather than providing and perpetuating an 
already angry, hateful and divisive dialogue 
more power and voice by reacting to stimu-lus from the other side, we need to arrive at a conscientious consensus as to what is going on and what we can do to ﬁ  x it.
If you’re tired of identity-politicking and 
hearing your friends assert each Trump voter — not supporter — is a racist or calling each Democrat a “libtard,” if you’re tired of feel-
ing a lack of representation politically (Dem-
ocrats, Republicans and Libertarians, too) or if you’re simply tired of seeing a divide so blatant and powerful in this beautiful coun-try of ours, then ask yourselves and your friends these questions.
The rhetoric of pitting sides against each 
other that we have now only nulliﬁ  es the very little discourse we do have; asking ques-
tions nuances our discourse and helps us ar-
rive at solutions we may be angrily blinded to. If you can’t ﬁ  nd the answers to some of these questions, hopefully, I can. I plan to write a column each day until the end of this week, nuancing our discourse: asking what Trump’s presidency posits, the problem with identity-politicking, how we arrived at where we are now and the problems with our vot-
ing system and representation. I hope to see 
you all tomorrow. 
James Hardison is an English sophomore. 
His columns will appear every day this week.Trump’s administration appointments should give you concern for the country
Beyond the election, let's focus on nuanced conversation instead of insultsColumn
Guest Column
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
James 
Hardison
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016
SIGN UP BY  
12.02.16
SAVE 10%
JANUARY 2017
Su
1
8
15
22
29M
29
16
23
30Tu
3
10
17
2431W
4
11
18
25Th
5
12
19
26F
6
13
20
27Sa
7
14
21
28Sprin/g.end Int/o.end Actio/n.end
ADVERTISE WITH THE ALLIGATOR
Contac/t.end Your Sale/s.end Rep Toda/y.endDEADLINE 12.14.16DEADLINE 12.14.16
I/n.end Newspaper Rack/s.end 01.04.17I/n.end Newspaper Rack/s.end 01.04.17
Welcom/e.end Bac/k.endWelcom/e.end Bac/k.endSPRINGSPRING
EDITIONEDITION
352-376-4482352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgadvertising@alligator.org
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Shay Brutosky, a 22-year-old artist, salon assistant and part-
time performer, spins her hyperion Hula-Hoop on the Plaza de la Constitucion in St. Augustine during Nights of Lights. “It’s fun; it’s a good workout, ” Brutosky said as she drew a crowd with her spinning.
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
Above: A group gathers 
near the Christmas tree on the Plaza de la Constitucion at the opening ceremony for St. Augustine’s annual Nights of Lights holiday event on Saturday evening. About 1,000 people gathered to watch the entire city of St. Augustine light up the night sky with holiday lights.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Left:  Shay Brutosky, a 
22-year-old artist, salon assistant and part-time performer, holds her hyperion Hula-Hoop on the Plaza de la Constitucion in St. Augustine during Nights of Lights. Thousands of holiday lights were illuminated during the event.A CELEBRATION OF
HOLIDAY CHEER
St. Augustine draws thousands of tourists to the historic district during 
the two months surrounding Christmas, with its Nights of Lights celebra-tion. Three million lights are illuminated around the Plaza de la Constitu-cion, and businesses stay open later with seasonal discounts. This year’s event began Saturday and will end Jan. 31, 2017. 
- Emma GreenMONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
all over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
all 
over the place
over the place
all 
all 
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish-
washer inside.High speed internet. $325 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
12-7-16-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22BR - Small pet ok$535/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
LOOK - A 2BR/2BA apt avail for rent in a 
quiet, safe neighborhood. Convenient to UF 
& shops. Available now. $1000/mo. Sec dep  
$2000 (1st/last). Call 352-359-5786    11-30-
16-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Subleasing a great one bedroom in a 2/2 
bedroom apartment at Lexington Crossings! It is a very spacious fully furnished bedroom with a private bath. Furnished living room with balcony overlooking the pool. Kitchen fully furnished. Washer/Dryer. Please let me know if interested! Call (786)-444-7043 or Text (786)-316-2205. Hurry won't last! Females only!     11-22-2-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
★★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★★
Southern red cedar & Arizona cypress, 3-30 
gal. $9-75. Open Sat & Sun 10am - 6pm. 
Nov 26th - Dec 24th. 20926 NW 75th St., 
Alachua. BK Cedars. 386-418-8031    12-7-
16-10-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesNO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $1999
91 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $1499
01 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999
352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  ed12 AutosMONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
Designated drivers are the greatestDon't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Correct
6 Dr.’s visit
10 “No __”: “Piece of
cake”
14 Farewell that’s bid
15 Societal woes16 Weapon in Clue17 It’s “down at the
end of Lonely
Street,” in anElvis hit
20 Horse hair
21 Online
marketplace
22 City in upstate
New York
23 Business baron
25 Liver secretion27 Practice boxing28 Oil well output, in
slang
33 Hindu teacher
34 Fútbol fan’s cry
35 Fencing weapon36 Malleable metal37 Historic events at
Gettysburg andVicksburg
41 Sister of Zsa Zsa
42 Ye __ Shoppe44 Spoil
45 Word with circle
or tube
47 Miracle-Gro, e.g.
50 Flower usually
sold by thedozen
51 Ivory source52 Upper crust54 NFL Hall of
Famer Bart
57 Dreaded high
school spots?
59 Baker’s amts.
62 Part of an Aretha
Franklin refrainabout fools ...and a hint to theends of 17-, 28-and 47-Across
65 Swiss river66 Congressional
confidante
67 Florida city on the
Gulf Coast
68 Waitstaff rewards69 Post-combat
affliction, briefly
70 Sharply inclined
DOWN
1 Chicago mayor
Emanuel2 Thought
3 Big bamboo
muncher
4 “Peekaboo!”
5 Boy king
6 Online service for
booking roomswith local hosts
7 Guilty, for one8 Ump’s cry before
the first pitch
9 “For shame!”
10 Mentored person11 Roast, in Dijon12 Oil cartel
acronym
13 Actor Lugosi18 Arthur of
“Maude”
19 “Incredible”
superhero
24 Chicago daily,
familiarly
26 Frozen drink
brand
27 Sty supper29 Keno kin30 Ali Baba’s magic
words
31 “Drove my Chevy
to the __”:
“American Pie”
lyric
32 Luv
33 “Knock it off!”38 Kennel
cacophony
39 Suffered
financially
40 iPhone’s voice-
activated app
43 Postings in
ledgers
46 “Please, anything
else!”
48 Right or left,
while driving
49 Didn’t admit53 Sportscaster
Berman
54 Ella’s expertise55 Spicy Asian
cuisine
56 Boomers’
lobbying group
58 Scoundrels60 Water carrier61 “Just like that!”
fingers sound
63 Put a limit on64 Dol.’s 100
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/21/1611/21/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, November 21, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
 11/21/16
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
xwordeditor@aol.com
1. Name the two Pittsburgh Pirates 
to have recorded 150 home runs and 
150 steals.
2. In 1973, the first year of the desig-
nated hitter, the American League set a pitching record for most 20-game 
winners. How many was it?
3. Miami’s Dan Marino led the NFL 
in touchdown passes in three different 
seasons (1984-86). Name the other 
Dolphins QB to lead the NFL in TD 
passes for a season.
4. What was the lowest number of 
losses in a season for Dean Smith as coach of the North Carolina men’s basketball team?
5. Three times in four years (1964-
67), the No. 1 pick in the NHL Draft 
never played in an NHL regular-sea-
son game. Name any of the three 
players. 
6. Name the first NASCAR Cup 
driver to win two season champion-ships.
7. Who was the last male tennis 
player other than Andy Murray, Novak Djokovic, Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal to win a Wimbledon sin-
gles title?
Answers
1. Andrew McCutchen (2009-pres-
ent) and Barry Bonds (1986-92).
2. Twelve.3. Bob Griese tossed 22 touchdown 
passes in 1977.
4. Two losses in the 1981-82 season, 
when the Tar Heels won the NCAA 
championship.
5. Claude Gauthier (1964), Andre 
Veilleux (‘65) and Rick Pagnutti (‘67).
6. Herb Thomas, who won titles in 
1951 and 1953.
7. Lleyton Hewitt, in 2002.
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 21, 2016 King Features Weekly ServiceLive Longer.
Drive Sober.
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?
Law office in Palm Beach Gardens
Palm Beach County, FL
Responsible Lawyer
Douglas A. Willis
Reasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-
21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Fire Your Boss 
Make job crushing income quickly and easily. http://instant10now.com/         11-22-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FT
Call or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478
Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    
11-30-16-16-14
NOW HIRING SERVERS
Apply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
Film Producer-Director-Writer**WANTED**Collaboration on reality TV show concept. Responible to film, arrange, edit, compile clips and help make presentation to pro-duction company interested in project. Partnership & credit. soofinc@yahoo.com     12-2-16-10-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
1-6-16-13-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida vs. Florida State will 
kick off in prime time at 8 p.m. on ABC this Saturday. Florida football makes jump in AP poll
After UF's victory over LSU on Saturday, the Gators moved up eight spots  to 
No. 13 in the Associated Press T op 25 Poll, released Sunday, Florida State, Florida's opponent this weekend, is ranked No. 15. By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
No. 5 Florida travelled to Columbia, 
Missouri, aiming to tighten its grip on the 
Southeastern Conference title with a victory 
over the No. 25 Missouri Tigers.
Missouri hitters Melanie Crow and Carly 
Kan had other plans.
Drawing the match out to five sets — the 
longest match the Gators (24-3, 14-2 SEC) 
have played all season — Missouri (23-
5, 14-2 SEC) used its two hitters to defeat 
Florida 3-2 on Sunday, snapping the Gators' 
12-match winning streak. It was Florida's first loss since Sept. 28.
Kan, a senior, totaled 25 kills, which are 
the most kills allowed to a single opponent 
by the Gators so far this season. She also 
notched 21 digs, marking the 21st time in school history that a Missouri player had a 20-20 game.
Meanwhile, Crow carved the Gator de-
fense up for 20 kills. Overall, the Tigers smacked a .331 hitting percentage, the high-est allowed by the Gators since their regu-lar-season opener against Nebraska.
The Gators found it hard to create points 
for themselves early on, and that carried on throughout the latter portion of the match. 
After dropping the first set 18-25, they re-
sponded with a narrow 25-23 second set win that evened things up going into half-time.
However, Florida followed that by losing 
the third set 15-25, as they couldn’t get into Missouri snaps Florida's 12-match winning streak
Jordan McPherson  / Alligator Staff
Alex Holston (3) attempts a kill during Florida's win against Marshall on Sept. 17 in the Lemerand Athletic Center.
THE FLORIDA SOCCER 
TEAM LOST IN THE NCAA 
TOURNAMENT ROUND OF 16.
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Savannah Jordan collapsed to her 
knees and stared at the ground as the final 
seconds of the match ticked down on the game clock.
The All-American forward began to 
weep, realizing that her career as a colle-giate soccer player was finally over.
“It’s been a ride,” she said. “To look 
back at my freshman year and say I’d be sitting in this seat right now, I couldn’t imagine it.”
Jordan, along with seven fellow se-
niors, played their final match in Florida uniforms on Sunday afternoon, as the No. 1-seeded Gators lost to No. 4-seeded Au-burn 3-1 at Dizney Stadium in the third round of the NCAA Tournament.UF struggled to convert opportunities 
into goals despite dominating time of pos-session and outshooting the Tigers 16-7. Auburn redshirt sophomore goalkeeper Sarah Le Beau made several diving stops on the way to recording six saves, thwart-ing Florida’s hopes of advancing to the Elite Eight for the second time in three years.
“They were amazingly good defensive-
ly,” coach Becky Burleigh said. “We put a lot of pressure on them and they handled that really well.”
AU’s Brooke Ramsier scored first in the 
26th minute after she blasted a shot from 20 yards away past UF sophomore goal-keeper Kaylan Marckese and into the top-left corner of the goal.
The Tigers' lead increased to two in the 
62nd minute after UF sophomore defend-er Rachelle Smith pushed Auburn junior forward Kristen Dodson in the back on a breakaway, earning Smith a red card and UF eliminated from NCAAs
Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
With less than two minutes left 
against St. Bonaventure, the Gators had 
seen their 15-point lead evaporate as the 
Bonnies tied the game with a three-point 
play.
“My stomach hurt,” coach Mike White 
said.
But a last-minute, seven-point spurt 
powered UF to a close 73-66 win on Thursday. 
Florida (3-0) will need to stop simi-
lar slip-ups from happening tonight at 7 
when it plays Belmont (1-1) in Tampa. 
White said the team’s particularly fo-
cused on stopping the Bruins from be-
yond the arc. Belmont shoots 38 threes per game, third most in the country.
“With this one, it’s such a simplistic 
approach. If we don’t defend the three very well, Belmont will beat you,” White said. 
“We’ll stress it for an hour and a half 
today. Do everything you can to defend the three-point line in several different areas.”
So far, Florida’s opponents have out-
shot the Gators from three, shooting 36.4 percent to UF’s 35.1 percent.  
With five Belmont players shooting at 
or above 40 percent from three this sea-
son, Gators forward Devin Robinson said 
it’s difficult to cover a team with so many three-point threats.
“(They’ve) got shooters all over the Gators looking to defend 
three-point line vs. Belmont SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 16 SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15MEN'S BASKETBALL14   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016
touchdown reception, an LSU fum-
ble and field goals from both sides.
Finally, after a fourth-down stop, 
it was over. It was all over. LSU couldn’t gain its final yard at the goal line on its last two plays, with running back Derrius Guice failing to push through UF’s stone wall of Caleb Brantley, David Reese and 
Marcell Harris.
And Florida’s sideline, upon see-
ing their defense stop LSU for one 
final time, exhaled.
And then they celebrated.“I was about to throw up,” offen-
sive lineman David Sharpe said. “It was crazy.”
Florida is heading back to the 
SEC Championship game against No. 1-ranked Alabama for coach Jim McElwain’s second straight year.On Saturday, McElwain became 
the only coach in SEC history to reach the conference’s title game twice in his first two years as head 
coach.
And so, of course, McElwain was 
emotional. He raced off the sideline 
with the rest of his team, hugged his players and cried.
“It just shocks me that somebody 
would question the Gators,” McEl-wain said. “The way I look at it, (LSU) got what they deserved. And 
it should have been worse.” 
UF enters this week with possibly 
the most confidence it has ever had 
during McElwain’s tenure. Next is a road match against No. 17 Florida State scheduled for an 8 p.m. kick-off on national TV. And while the result of the game has no bearing on Florida’s SEC title game appearance 
on Dec. 3, UF will head into it fully 
expecting to win.After all, the Gators had just 
broken a three-year losing streak to LSU.
What’s another three-year losing 
streak to FSU?
“We came in here to build a pro-
gram and build an organization peo-ple can be proud of,” McElwain said. “That’s the way we’re doing it.”
But before they focus on FSU, 
the Gators will likely address several injuries this week. Senior lineback-ers Jarrad Davis and Alex Anzalone 
have missed the last two games, 
leaving their status against the Semi-noles unclear. Quarterback Luke Del Rio has been sidelined with a shoul-der injury since Nov. 5, making way for Austin Appleby to earn two con-secutive starts.
UF’s starting center is injured and 
its starting safety is out for the sea-son.
But in their place, young players 
have filled in, like first-year lineback-ers Reese and Kylan Johnson, who both impressed in their two starts. The two finished first and third on the team in total tackles against LSU, respectively.
“We got some young guys mak-
ing some big plays out here,” defen-sive lineman Caleb Brantley said. “That’s big.”In the coming days, McElwain 
will have to assess Florida’s roster and make those decisions.
Then he and his team will pre-
pare for the Seminoles and hope that some of their improbable success against LSU in Death Valley carries over into their regular-season finale. 
And, maybe, hope they can force 
another hostile stadium to hold its breath.
“It’s us against the world,” Ap-
pleby said. “(LSU) messed with the 
wrong guys.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg.1UF is hoping to snap a three-year losing streak to FSU this weekend
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Linebacker Kylan Johnson celebrates during UF’s win over LSU. 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Freshman linebacker Vosean Joseph (11) and other UF players scramble to bat down a ball in the end 
zone against LSU on Saturday. Joseph was one of several young linebackers to contribute to UF’s win.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Austin Appleby (12) celebrates with cornerback Quincy Wilson following UF’s win over the LSU Tigers on Saturday in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
an offensive groove despite a win 
in the fourth set. This offensive funk followed them into the final 
set, where they finally fell 10-15.
Florida leaned heavily on hit-
ters Alex Holston and Carli Sny-
der, who combined for 41 kills. 
However, the Gators could only 
muster a .228 hitting percentage as a team, their worst since their Sept. 28 loss to Kentucky.
After wining 26 straight sets, 
Florida was stifled.
 Missouri also benefited from 
sound defense, particularly from middle blocker Alyssa Munlyn. 
The sophomore totaled nine blocks during the match while the 
Gators tallied just five as a team.
With the loss, the Gators fell 
behind Kentucky for second place in the SEC stand-ings and are tied 
with the Tigers with only two matches remain-ing on the con-ference sched-
ule.
Florida has two days off be-
fore a mid-week showdown with 
Auburn back in Gainesville on 
Wednesday at 8 p.m. 
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org VOLLEY,  from pg. 13Holston and Synder 
combined for 41 kills
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Carli Snyder, middle, talks with teammates during UF's win against Mississippi State on Oct. 21.
Auburn a penalty kick opportu-
nity that Bri Folds converted.
Florida bounced back momen-
tarily, scoring less than a minute 
later from six yards away courtesy 
of senior forward Brooke Sharp.
Sharp’s goal wouldn’t be 
enough to propel the Gators back 
into the match, though, as Au-burn shut down UF’s offense for the rest of the contest and sealed the victory with one more score in the 85th minute by Dodson.
“I didn’t feel like we played 
badly,” Burleigh said. “I thought we really controlled the tempo. I thought we had lots of opportu-nities. … Sometimes soccer is a funny game.”
With Florida’s season now 
over, the program will lose Jor-dan, a player who will go down as one of Florida's all-time greats. 
The Fayetteville, Georgia, native 
finished with a career statline of 81 goals, which ranks second in UF history behind Abby Wam-
bach’s 96.
“It’s meant the world to me,” 
she said. “I appreciate everything 
that this program has done for me and this team.”
Sunday’s loss also means that 
the Gators have now failed to ad-vance past the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tournament 12 times over the last 13 seasons. 
But Jordan feels the next few 
years could be bright for her now-former team.
“I can’t wait to just watch it 
in the future as it continues to grow,” she said.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg. 13Jordan finishes Florida 
career with 81 goals
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan (7) dribbles the ball during UF's win against Alabama on Oct. 20. Jordan played her 
final game in a  Florida uniform on Sunday in UF's NCAA T ournament loss to Auburn.
Munlyn
court,” Robinson said.
 “We’ve just gotta keep rotating, do 
our jobs and make sure they don’t get as 
many threes off as the last team did, be-cause then we’ll be in trouble.”
But Florida can heat up from three-
point land as well. 
Robinson, Florida’s leading scorer, has 
made four of his six three-point attempts 
this season and is shooting above 60 per-cent from the field. 
Robinson said he credits his shooting 
improvements to the stress fracture in his foot the training staff discovered at the end of last season. 
“I really think me being hurt helped my shot tremendously,” the junior said. 
“I did a lot of form shooting, shooting 
out of the chair when I had a broken foot.”
He said as long as he shoots with confi-
dence and holds his release, he knows the ball has a good chance of going in. 
White said Robinson has stepped up on 
the defensive end as well.
“He’s a different defender than he was 
six weeks ago,” White said. 
“He’s made a commitment to it, prob-
ably about three or four weeks ago, and it’s been pretty consistent.”
Through the first three games, the 
6-foot-8 small forward is second on the team with 7.3 rebounds per game and has  grabbed six steals, tied for most on the 
team. 
“Whether he scores it or not, whether 
shots are falling or not, whether he gets a 
tipped dunk or not, he can hang his hat on helping this team in those areas,” White 
said.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org 16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2016
HOOPS,  from pg. 13Robinson is shooting above 60 percent from the ield this season
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Devin Robinson talks to reporters during the Florida basketball team's Media Day on Oct. 6. Robinson is UF's leading scorer this 
season and has made four of his six three-point attempts.
GAME INFO:
• Who: Florida vs. Belmont
• Where: T ampa
• When: 7 p.m.
• Watch:  SEC Network“W e've just gotta keep rotating, 
do our jobs, and make sure 
they don't get as many threes 
of as the last team did, because 
then we'll be in trouble.”
Devin Robinson
Florida Gators forward