We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 44 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016
Florida soccer team shuts out 
‘Bama 6-0
Melanie Monteagudo scored off a header in the 36th 
minute, pg. 14
Winn-Dixie donates 250 Gator football tickets
They were given to families at the Ronald McDonald House, pg. 5
UF freshman application deadline pushed back
Applications are now due Nov. 4, pg. 5State oﬃ   cials push for increased
online classes
They hope to have 40 percent of undergraduate
credits completed online by 2025, pg. 4
They hope to have 40 percent of undergraduate
By Robyn Wilbar
Alligator Contributing Writer
Once a year for the past 25 years, 
Steve Perry looks for bubble trails in 
the water: a sign that an alligator is 
nearby.
During Florida’s two-and-a-half-
month alligator-hunting season, the Gainesville resident gathers a group of friends and scours state and county lakes for the reptiles, hunt-
ing them and selling their hides to 
make a living.
In March, he turned his passion 
into a legitimate business, starting a Gainesville-based online retailer, Perry’s Alligator Products, and be-
coming one of several Floridians 
who proﬁ  t from the alligator hunt.So far this season, which spans 
from Aug. 15 to Nov. 1, Perry has 
caught 22 alligators throughout the 
state and Alachua County, which he will sell to high-paying leather pro-
cessors.
“When we sell our leather hides, 
we have people that will take the high-quality ones and sell them to 
high-end designers” the 47-year-old said. “The high-end designers will then turn them into handbags that 
sell upwards of $45,000.”
In 1988, to sustainably control 
rebounding alligator populations, the Florida Fish and Wildlife Con-
servation Commission enacted the alligator-hunting season, which al-
lows hunters to take two alligators 
per permit. Steve Stiegler, a wildlife biologist 
for the FWC alligator management 
program, said permits are in high de-
mand, so they’re closely regulated. Last year, the commission received 
24,000 applications, only approving 
6,000. This year, 6,128 permits were issued, he said.
“All the permits are the same ‘This is how I make my living:’ A look at Florida’s annual alligator hunt
SEE ALLIGATOR,  PAGE 4By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
After a Facebook event for Flor-
ida Rep. Debbie Wasserman-Schul-
tz’s appearance in Gainesville today was posted, Bernie Sanders support-ers began planning a protest.
Wasserman-Schultz, the former 
chair of the Democratic National Committee, is scheduled to attend a 7 p.m. volunteer training session 
at Gainesville Police headquarters, 
located at 545 NW Eighth Ave., ac-cording to presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s campaign website.
Many voters who had backed 
Sanders’ run for the presidency 
voiced outrage at the DNC email 
hack in July, which appeared to 
show that the committee attempted to undermine Sanders’ campaign against Clinton.
Grant Schwab, a 21-year-old UF 
political science senior, said he will join in the protest. He said he was upset that Alachua County for Hill-
ary pulled the Facebook event page 
down and removed Wasserman-Schultz’s name, which he consid-
ered an attempt to suppress critics’ 
voices. 
On Thursday morning, the event disappeared from the Gators 4 Hill-
ary page, later replaced with an 
RSVP link where prospective volun-teers can sign up for the event.
“She will still be there and, to the 
best of my knowledge, we will still 
be there to greet her,” Schwab said. “It’s important to be diplomatic and 
show her the courtesy that we were 
not shown.”
Jake Best, the president of Gators 4 Hillary, which is co-organizing the event, said he is aware of the pro-
test and that there will be no added 
security.
“I would hope that no one would 
protest at this point,” he said. “It’s 
important not to protest her or what 
happened in the past and to work 
towards the future.”
@jawosmond 
Josmond@alligator.orgSanders supporters to protest Wasserman-Schultz’s Gainesville visit
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer 
It is the malnourished people 
in the streets whom Camila Gar-
cia, 23, remembers from when she visited her home country of Ven-ezuela.
Food on the shelves was scarce, 
and inﬂ  ation made it difﬁ  cult to buy food, she said. The people were skinnier than she remem-bered. That was in August.
After visiting her family, the UF 
economics senior said she came back more determined to help.
“We need to do something 
about this,” she told the president of Vensa, a student organization that helps incoming students adapt to American culture. “We have so much potential here.”
In response to the crisis in Ven-
ezuela, Vensa partnered with other organizations and local businesses to host weeklong events to gather 
medical supplies, nonperishable 
food and daily necessities to send 
to Venezuela. As of press time, the 
group had collected about $1,200 in donations as well as boxes of 
food and personal-hygiene prod-
ucts.
From March 2015 to 2016, the 
price of basic necessities for a fam-
ily of ﬁ  ve has gone up 524 percent, 
according to The Washington Post. 
The country has seen high inﬂ  a-
tion of goods due to a political, 
economic and humanitarian crisis. 
Ignacio Bravo, the president of 
Vensa, left Venezuela when he was 16. His family moved to Argentina 
about ﬁ  ve years ago, leaving be-
hind the streets they no longer felt 
safe walking down.
When he lived in Venezuela, 
Bravo said he remembers only be-Por Venezuela: UF 
students gather supplies for the country 
A SONG FOR VENEZUELA
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Simon Grossman, a 21-year-old UF telecommunication senior, performs “T e Invito” , a song from his 
upcoming album, at Omi’s T avern during the open-mic night, which was hosted by Vensa. People donated food and medical supplies to send to Venezuela. 
SEE VENEZUELA,  PAGE 9FEATURESubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  85° LOW  54°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Free tango classes
Join the UF Argentine Tango 
Club for free tango classes 
at all levels, including first-
time participants. Classes will take place Sunday in the Reitz Union, Dance Studio 
A. The first lesson will begin 
at 6:15 p.m. and will be fol-lowed by an intermediate/ad-vanced class at 7:15 p.m. Be sure to dress comfortably. No 
special shoes are necessary — jazz, ballet, or salsa shoes or 
even just a pair of thick socks work just fine. If you have any questions, please visit the UF 
Argentine Tango Club at face-
book.com/groups/uftango.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” sub-
missions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 44
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, 
  Michael Smith, William Clewis
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Kelly Harrison knew one cat at the 
Levy County Animal Services Shelter 
didn’t belong. 
The grey-and-white cat looked to be 
in good health and in good spirits — not 
a typical shelter cat, the assistant clinical  
professor at the UF College of Veterinary Medicine said.
“He was kind of an oddball,” she 
said. 
After taking a few seconds to pet him, 
Harrison decided to scan him for a mi-crochip, a tiny circuit embedded under the skin that could carry information 
about where the cat was from. 
The chip was there. And within 24 
hours, the cat — identiﬁ  ed as 11-year-
old Sparky from Tampa — was reunited with his family.  
“I was excited that there was an own-
er potentially attached to this,” Harrison said. 
Sparky was 5 years old when he dis-
appeared from Tampa ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter John Bogush’s home. The family didn’t restrict Sparky to just the inside of the house and assumed something had attacked him in 
the nearby woods.
“We assumed he had probably fallen 
prey to local wildlife,”  Bogush said, add-
ing that the woods are known for their large bobcat population. “Our other neighbors had dealt with that before.”
Bogush’s family searched for Sparky 
and mourned his disappearance for a few weeks, but they ultimately had to move 
on. Bogush’s daughter, Sophia, was the 
most upset, he said. She was 3 years old when they brought Sparky home as a kit-ten. When Bogush answered Harrison’s call, just as she was leaving a voicemail on the microchip’s third and ﬁ  nal asso-ciated telephone number, it had been more than ﬁ  ve years since Sparky had disappeared. But he knew it was his cat.  
Immediately after the call from Har-
rison, Bogush called his wife, Jennifer. 
“Are you sitting down?” he asked her. 
“You’re not going to believe this.” 
The next day, the Bogush family 
drove to the animal shelter to pick up Sparky. 
When he came home, Sparky, now 
11, quickly returned to his usual loung-
ing and sleeping habits. He also remem-
bered where to ﬁ  nd his water bowl, Bo-gush said. 
The most noticeable difference, he 
said, is the cat’s newfound aversion to going outside. 
Bogush said this reunion would have 
never been possible without the technol-
ogy of microchips, something he thinks is necessary and should be mandatory for pet ownership. 
“In the case of Sparky,” he said, “It 
took almost six years, but he was even-tually returned to us, and we’re all really excited about that.” 
He said he feels fortunate that Sparky 
is home where he belongs.
“Everyone is getting along great,” 
Bogush said. “He’s acclimating to home like he was only gone a day or two.”
@ced0624 
cdickson@alligator.orgSparky’s journey: Five years later, a cat returns home 
A UF professor helped reunite him with his family
Courtesy to the Alligator
Sophia Bogush, now 15, is shown with Sparky after the cat 
was reunited with his family thanks to Kelly Harrison and the UF Veterinary Community Outreach Program.
4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016
Political advertisement paid for and approved by the Alachua County Democratic Party, Box 5216, Gainesville, FL 32627. Approved by Hilary Rodham Clinton, Democrat, for U.S. President; by Patrick Murphy, Democrat, for U.S. Senate; by Ken McGurn, Democrat, for U.S. Representative, 
Dist. 3; by Rod Smith, Democrat, for Florida State Senate, Dist. 8; by Marihelen Wheeler, Democrat, for Florida State House, Dist. 21; by Sadie Darnell, Democrat, for Alachua County Sheriff; by Mike Byerly, Democrat, for Alachua County Commissioner Dist. 1; by Robert “Hutch” Hutchinson, Democrat, for Alachua County Commissioner Dist. 3; by Charles S. “Chuck” Chestnut IV, Democrat, for Alachua County Commissioner Dist. 5; by J.K. “Jess” Irby, Democrat, for Alachua Clerk of the Circuit Court and Comptroller.WE ARE STONGER TOGETHER. VOTE FOR DEMOCRATS NOVEMBER 8
EARLY VOTING AND VOTE BY MAIL
Early Voting: Oct. 24 through Nov. 5 at the Supervisor of Elections 
Office, Millhopper Library and Tower Road Library. Vote by Mail: 
Call the Supervisor of Elections at 352-374-5252 to request a ballot.Supervisor of Elections 515 N. Main Street Gainesville, FL 32605Hillary Clinton & Tim Kaine 
Democrats for U.S. President 
and U.S. Vice President
VOTE NO
Constitutional 
Amendment 1
VOTE YES
Constitutional Amendment 2, 3 and 5  VOTE YES 
Alachua County 
Question 1 and 21. Renewal of One Mil Ad Valorem Tax2. Wild Spaces & Public PlacesPatrick Murphy Ken McGurn 
Democrat
U.S.
SenatorDemocrat
U.S. House
District 3
Rod Smith Marihelen Wheeler 
Democrat
Florida
Senate
District 8Democrat
Florida 
House
District 21J.K. “Jess” Irby
Clerk of
Circuit
Court and
ComptrollerSadie Darnell Robert Hutchinson 
Democrat
Alachua
County 
SheriffAlachua
County 
Commission
District 3
Mike Byerly Charles Chestnut
Alachua
County 
Commission
District 1Alachua
County 
Commission
District 5
in that they allow the hunters to 
kill and tag up to two alligators,” Stiegler said. “Once they have used 
their two tags, their hunting season 
is over.”
Despite restrictions, Perry said 
his 20-alligator catch isn’t violating 
any laws because he pays his friends 
for their tags.
In Alachua County, his go-to 
spots include Newnans Lake, Or-ange Lake and Lochloosa Lake. Just 
before sunrise, he and two other 
hunters will set out in a boat. When 
the bubbles break the surface, Perry 
jabs a hook into the water.
“We’ll put a hook into them on a 
rod and reel, ﬁ  ght them for a while, 
get them up and put a harpoon in 
them,” Perry said. “Once you have the harpoon in them, you use a bang stick, pull the pin and pop them on their skull cap. That kills them.”
After the hunt, Perry sells the 
gator hides to someone like Tracy 
Howell, 54, who processes the skin 
and sells it to clothing manufactur-ers like Italian-based Mauri Shoes and U.S.-based Tucket Footwear.
To legitimize his business and 
encourage walk-in sales, within the next few weeks Howell will open up a store called the Ty Hill Collection in Plant City, Florida, where he will 
sell alligator-skin shoes, wallets and 
belts.
An industry veteran for the past 
39 years, the Plant City resident said the hunting season is a self-support-ing program that funds research and 
helps local economies.
“This is how I make my living,” 
he said.ALLIGATOR,  from pg. 1Designers buy the hides
ABOUT FIVE OR SIX 
ONLINE DEGREE 
PROGRAMS HAVE BEEN 
ADDED EACH YEAR.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
The Florida Board of Gov-
ernors hopes that by the year 
2025, 40 percent of undergradu-
ate credits will be completed on-
line. 
At a Monday meeting, the 
board met with Florida univer-
sity representatives to discuss 
the future of online learning. For UF, the goal of having 40 percent of credit hours completed online would mean increasing the num-
ber of online classes by 5 percent 
each year.
Andrew McCollough, the UF assistant provost, said that in the 2015-2016 school year, about 29 percent of undergraduate credits were completed online. 
“It has been growing organi-
cally,” he said. “I would not be surprised to see us close to 40 percent by 2025.”
He said prerequisite or pre-
professional courses can be completed in an online or hybrid setting. Hybrid courses are taken half online, half in person. 
“We try to measure success 
in the amount of learning that takes place,” he said.
UF currently offers 17 online 
degree programs, with ﬁ  ve to six 
added each year, he said. 
John David Gaines, 21, a UF 
online student, said taking on-
line-only courses has both pros 
and cons. 
“I think it’s more difﬁ  cult just because there’s no one to hold 
you accountable for watching lectures,” the UF business senior said, but for the most part, he 
enjoys it.  
He said he dreads group proj-
ects, which are even more dif-
ﬁ  cult to complete in an online setting.  
He said although it takes 
more effort to manage his sched-ule, the ﬂ  exibility has opened up time for other things. 
Over Summer, Gaines en-
rolled in his usual online classes while also working a part-time job and spending time with his family. 
“I’m enjoying it,” he said. 
“I’m not ready to be in the real world yet.” 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgState oﬃ   cials push for increase in 
Florida university online classes
THE SENATOR MET 
WITH THE CHAMBER OF 
COMMERCE.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
U.S. Senator Bill Nelson vis-
ited Gainesville on Thursday to 
meet with the city’s Chamber of Commerce and campaign for a Florida Senate nominee.
Nelson discussed the Afford-
able Care Act and taxes on local medical-device manufacturers and complimented Gainesville’s public transportation system. Nelson later joined local politi-cians at an event for Rod Smith, who is running for the Florida Senate District 8 seat against Rep. Keith Perry.“I think he’s one of the ﬁ  n-
est public servants that I’ve ran into,” Nelson said.
During the meeting, John 
Pastore, a chamber member and 
the president of Crime Preven-
tion Security Systems, asked 
Nelson how he would reform the 
Affordable Care Act. As a small-
business owner, Pastore said he 
pays too much for his employ-
ees’ health insurance. 
“It’s drowning us,” he said.
Nelson defended the Afford-
able Care Act, arguing more peo-ple have health insurance under 
the act and are no longer denied 
insurance for pre-existing health 
conditions. But he said Congress 
should work together to reform 
the act and accommodate busi-
nesses that face high fees.“That’s a part that ought 
to be ﬁ  xed,” Nelson said. “But there’s a certain element of poli-
tics in the country that say we 
don’t want to ﬁ  x it, we want to 
replace it.”
Nelson said he plans to cam-
paign with former President Bill Clinton and presidential candi-
date Hillary Clinton. On Sunday, 
he will be in Alachua County 
campaigning with vice-presi-
dential candidate Tim Kaine, 
although no ofﬁ  cial time or lo-
cation has been announced for 
Kaine’s visit.
“Florida is such a ripe battle-
ground swing state that you’ll see a lot of these candidates 
coming in,” Nelson said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org US Sen. Bill Nelson visits Gainesville
Courtesy to the Alligator
Travis Mosler shoots a documentary of Gainesville resident 
Steve Perry’s 2015 alligator hunt in Newnans Lake. For the past 25 years, Perry has participated in Florida’s alligator-hunting season, which spans from Aug. 15 to Nov. 1, selling the leather hides of his catches.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Eddie Garcia, a regional vice president of Winn-Dixie, hands Sherry Houston, the executive director 
of Ronald McDonald House Gainesville, 250 tickets to the last home game. 
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
As part of a regional campaign, 
Winn-Dixie donated 250 UF football 
tickets to seriously ill children and their parents Thursday.
At a ceremony held at the Ron-
ald McDonald House in Gainesville, which provides temporary resi-dence for the families of kids who receive medical treatment, Winn-Dixie employees cooked dinner for some of the families after they re-ceived their tickets.
The tickets are for the Nov. 12 
home game against the University 
of South Carolina.
Dwight Pou and Kandice Tipton, 
who have been staying at the UF-af-
ﬁ  liated facility for about a month as one of their sons receives treatment, said they have been to a UF football game only once before. 
Joined by their 1-year-old daugh-
ter, Destiny, who was dressed in a 
Gators shirt, the pair said they were 
ecstatic to have another chance to see the Gators play in the Swamp.
“I got goose bumps the ﬁ  rst time 
I heard,” Pou said. “I watch just about every game (on TV).”
In the past week, the supermar-
ket chain has donated about 1,000 college football tickets to various charities that are partnered with universities across the southeast, including Florida State University, 
Clemson University, the University 
of Alabama and the University of South Carolina, said Eddie Garcia, a regional vice president of Winn-Dixie.
Sherry Houston, the executive 
director of the Ronald McDonald House Charities of North Central Florida, said the donation lifted the 
spirits of the families, who spend 
most of their time in hospital rooms caring for their children.
At the ceremony, UF mascots 
Albert and Alberta offered the kids ﬁ  st bumps and helped cook dinner: spaghetti with garlic bread. And for dessert, they enjoyed a Gators-themed cake bearing the Ronald 
McDonald House logo.
“This is something really fun for 
them to do today,” Houston said.
Jordan Kress, a UF alumnus and 
an assistant store manager at the 
Winn-Dixie location on Southwest 16th Avenue, said although this is the ﬁ  rst time Winn-Dixie has part-nered with the charity, it certainly 
won’t be the last.
“We’re really excited to build a 
relationship with Ronald McDonald 
House,” the 26-year-old said. “We deﬁ  nitely plan on coming back.”Winn-Dixie donates 250 Gators football tickets to local families
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
UF has extended the freshman 
admission application deadline fol-
lowing Hurricane Matthew. 
The university extended the 
deadline from Nov. 1 to Nov. 4 this week, wrote UF spokesman Steve Orlando in an email. The univer-sity chose to extend the deadline because of the hurricane, which brought strong winds and heavy 
rain to the eastern part of the state 
earlier this month. 
“Hurricane Matthew was a sig-
niﬁ  cant event that impacted the 
lives of many individuals including 
students applying to college,” Or-
lando wrote. “We hope this exten-
sion will (alleviate) any stress stu-dents may have about meeting the application deadline.”
UF has extended the freshman 
application deadline in the past, fol-
lowing other storms such as Hurri-
cane Sandy in 2012, he said. 
A few high-school seniors af-
fected by Hurricane Matthew had 
reached out to the admissions of-
ﬁ  ce, asking for more time due to the 
storm, Orlando said. 
Tori Knott, a senior at Lely High School in Naples, Florida, said she’s glad the university extended the 
deadline for those who live in areas 
impacted by Hurricane Matthew. 
She said she’s halfway through 
her application and plans to submit 
it by the end of the month. Although 
Naples didn’t see any damages from 
Matthew, she said the extension 
will also help her and other students in the state to ﬁ  ne-tune and ﬁ  nish their applications. 
“I think it shows that they’re re-
ally understanding and considerate of those who want to attend their 
university,” the 17-year-old said. “I 
think it’s really thoughtful of them. 
It shows a lot of really good charac-ter from UF.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgUF freshman application deadline pushed to Nov. 4
Applicants reached out to extend the deadlineThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORThe Great Barrier Reef is dead. Well, almost.      
I read an obituary for the Great Barrier 
Reef a few days ago that stated the reef had died after a long battle with bleach-
ing. This bleaching was caused by stress 
from climate change and indirect human 
interaction such as toxins from oil spills and sediment from runoff. It didn’t seem right 
to me that I had never heard of the website 
that posted the obituary, so I did some quick research and learned it was just something meant to grab people’s attention in a dramatic way. The good news that is the reef is still alive. The 
bad news is it’s dying at a rapid rate and will most likely 
be completely destroyed soon if something isn’t done to slow the rate of climate change.
Around the same time I read the obituary, I read 
an article that linked Hurricane Matthew to climate change. The article said because the oceans are warmer than they have ever been, they help fuel the catastroph-ic strength of hurricanes. This made total sense to me, and the link really shook me, especially because I wit-
nessed the destruction of parts of my hometown from 
what wasn’t even the worst part of the storm.
To match the adage that bad things come in threes, 
I read a third article the other day about how bees are 
dying at a rapid rate and that several species have been 
added to the endangered-species list. They’re disappear-ing not only due to negative effects from pesticides and genetically modiﬁ  ed plants, but from climate change as well. As it is widely known, bees are helpful and pol-
linate the majority of crops that humans use for food. If 
we lose bees, we lose these crops and pretty much have a break in the food chain. 
Anthropogenic climate change is real and its effects 
are life-threatening. It is a fact that global temperatures have ﬂ  uctuated over the years and that some have been colder or warmer than others, but it is also true that this is the warmest our planet has ever been. The change originates from the crazy-high atmospheric carbon dioxide levels that come 
directly from human activity. We keep burn-
ing fossil fuels that release harmful chemicals into bodies of water, which kill wildlife and cause eutrophication that destroys valuable 
forests. It has always bafﬂ  ed me that people 
would want to destroy something that ab-sorbs our carbon dioxide and gives us oxygen to breathe in return for free. There’s honestly 
no denying humans have caused signiﬁ  cant negative ef-
fects on our planet, as we are literally the only species 
who have intentionally destroyed aspects of the earth for our own beneﬁ  t, going as far as drilling it for natural gas and causing minor earthquakes.
I would never, ever dream about being dramatic in 
the slightest, but basically what I’m trying to get across is that we’re going to get wiped out by climate change 
— the effects of which have been ampliﬁ  ed by human 
activity  if nothing is done about it. It’s hard to ac-complish widespread change — especially on a global level — but it’s worth a shot. We can start by chang-
ing our own habits by being wary of what we consume 
and put out into the environment, as well as divesting from companies that have been known to damage our planet’s ecosystems. I can only hope that, at this point, we’re not too late to make a change.
Alexa DeLoera is a UF political science senior. Her 
column appears on Fridays.
You’ve been studying all week. Late nights in the library. 
Early mornings with the study group. You’ve never felt more prepared for an exam in your life. Now, here you are, sitting 
in the exam room with your blue book in front of you. “I’m 
ready for this,” you think to yourself as the teaching assis-tants pass out the exams. Once they’ve all been dispersed, you read the ﬁ  rst question on the exam. But it’s not really a 
question. You raise your hand, and a TA walks over. “Is this 
a joke?” you ask. The TA shrugs, mutters “good luck,” and walks away. You glance back down at the exam, hoping it’s changed. It isn’t. Staring right back at you are 35 questions, each with four multiple choice answers, each question and 
each answer reading nothing but…
Darts & Laurels
If you’ve been keeping up, dear readers, then you’ll 
know that this week, a team of Tennessee scientists from 
the Oak Ridge National Laboratory discovered a chemical 
reaction by which carbon dioxide can be converted into ethanol, which can in turn be a new source of energy. This could be key in the ﬁ  ght against climate change. But that’s not all in the wonderful world of science that has happened 
this week, dear readers. On Wednesday, the ﬁ  rst new U.S. 
nuclear reactor in 20 years went live again in Tennessee, providing quality clean energy to many residents of the Ten-nessee Valley. We give this laurel to all the Tennessee scientists who have been kicking butt lately, not only by 
developing clean energy, but also for keeping in mind that 
all of this brings us closer to remedying the problem of cli-mate change.
Speaking of problems, the third and ﬁ  nal presidential 
debate was held Wednesday night. The beginning of the end of this circus is ﬁ  nally near. At the beginning of the debate, the moderator, Fox News Channel’s Chris Wallace, reminded the audience that they agreed to not cheer or 
boo at any point during the discussion. But when Trump 
insisted that no one has greater respect for women than he 
does, the audience sworn to silence exploded into laughter. This should speak volumes about his character. Regardless, the audience broke their promise, and for that, we lob a 
dart at them. Though we also give them a secret laurel for 
identifying the irony in Trump saying, “Nobody respects women more than me,” before calling the ﬁ  rst nominated female presidential candidate of a major party in American history “a nasty woman.”
The debate was held in Las Vegas, and it’s safe to assume 
that people ﬂ  ew in for the debate. As many of you know, ﬂ  ying is by far one of the worst experiences one can en-dure. Sometimes it’s so bad that your luggage gets lost and 
ends up in a foreign land for what feels like forever. Luckily 
for us, President Barack Obama and his administration 
rolled out a proposal earlier this week that would make it so airlines have to refund those pesky baggage fees if your luggage is delayed. We present a laurel to you, President 
Obama, for bringing justice to the repeat offender that is 
the American commercial airline industry.
The Obama administration also learned this week that 
North Korea, yet again, failed to test-ﬁ  re a missile. There is 
still no information as to where the missile was intended to 
go. Regardless, we’re extremely grateful that the operation was a ﬂ  uke. But for trying to launch missiles in the ﬁ  rst place, we give a dart to North Korea’s de facto dictator Kim Jong-un. Seriously, he is really sticking to his plan of 
starting World War III.
Alexa DeLoera
opinions@alligator.org
“Climate change is real, 
and its efects are life-
threatening.”FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Ready for a challenge? Make your 
smartphone a “dumb phone.”
Though I do not know of the ex-
act genesis of this challenge, I ﬁ  rst heard of the “dumb phone” from 
author, YouTube star and cultural icon John Green, so I’m just going to give all 
credit to him. The reason I’m giving this 
credit to Green is because I believe he gave the best explanation of this growing trend in the digital age.
Put simply, Green says the goal is to con-
trol your phone and not let it control you.
Green suggests removing all apps on 
your phone that “stress you out.” While this is most certainly a subjective judgment 
made on behalf of each individual user, it 
is also very likely that what stresses John Green and me out also stresses you out. This is including, but not limited to, email, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, 
any internet browser and essentially any 
app that connects to the internet and pro-vides you with frequent information.
In other words, if Alexander Graham 
Bell wouldn’t approve (or be aware) of it, then delete it from the device.
Phones these days have start-
ed to drift further and further 
away from the fundamental idea 
of what a telephone is and should do. Our pockets hold devices more similar to small computers 
than telephones — and more of a 
distracter than a tool for our con-venience.
Upon ﬁ  rst hearing about it, 
this challenge sounds less like a formidable 
test and more like a cute way to generate 
some self-inﬂ  icted inconvenience in life. But nonetheless, I decided to suck it up and give my iPhone only four major reasons 
to exist: calling, texting, Google Maps and 
Spotify.
None of these applications notify me 
with social feeds or information overload, but instead only function as tools that make 
my life slightly more enjoyable. I promised 
myself that, during this challenge, my only internet/social-media access would be on my computer because, well, that’s what 
they’re made for.The ﬁ  rst day was the hard-
est. I realized in that ﬁ  rst day 
just how much of my time is 
spent waiting. Whether it be for 
a bus, a class or just killing time between other tasks, a surprising amount of time is spent in this 
state. It was in these moments 
I would automatically reach for my phone, like a Pavlovian dog who’s been trained to roboti-
cally take out its phone anytime it feels a 
semblance of boredom or inactivity. Noth-
ing interesting or intellectually stimulating happening at this very moment? My brain’s immediate response was to go through the 
social media rounds, but for what? To see 
what new things have happened in the 30 minutes since I last checked?
Two days later, after ﬁ  ghting countless 
urges to satisfy the desire to scroll news 
feeds that realistically have nothing to do 
with me, I began to look up. Ten minutes until the bus arrives? Those 600 seconds that used to be consumed by mindless 
scrolling were now occupied by the age-old hobby of looking around. For all I know, 
that is the only time I will be in that exact situation, with those exact people in those 
exact circumstances. It wasn’t exactly a 
Henry David Thoreau level of sucking “the marrow out of life;" I was deﬁ  nitely not talking to the birds darting above or study-
ing the way the trees swayed lazily in the 
warm breeze, but I was at least taking no-tice of these small details of the world. Each one of these moments was not signiﬁ  cant on its own, but they all had the synergistic 
effects of nature itself. As a whole, these 
moments made my week, overall, signiﬁ  -cantly more enjoyable.
Fifteen days in, I am starting to think of 
this as less of a challenge and more of a permanent change. I have come to the real-ization many are blind to: Using a phone as strictly a tool for your own convenience not only liberates you from the chains of the in-
ternet, but also allows one to burn through 
less data and more life.
Andrew Hall is a UF business admin-
istration junior. His column appears on 
Fridays.
You're in charge, not your phone: don't be controlled by apps, notiﬁ  cationsColumn
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016
By Melanie Mueller
Alligator Contributing Writer
After moving from his apart-
ment’s kitchen to the back of a 
downtown restaurant, a UF student and entrepreneur now hopes to set-tle down his bakery business.
Cookiegazm, a cookie-delivery 
business founded in 2014, began raising money last week to open up a physical location in Gainesville by January. Since Oct. 13, it has raised more than $1,000 of the necessary $30,000.
Daniel Leal, a 22-year-old UF 
sustainability studies senior and the company’s founder, said the need for a permanent facility was spurred by a steep increase in sales. The de-livery-only company sees about 65 orders per night, he said.
“We are getting to that point 
where we are getting so many orders 
that I don’t know how much longer we can continue in our kitchen,” 
said employee Eduardo Cabral, a 19-year-old Santa Fe College sopho-
more.
The idea began with Leal and his 
roommate in The Courtyards apart-
ments, scrambling through their unit’s pantry, baking and selling cookies to their neighbors for some spare cash.
After coming up with the name, 
the roommates created some ﬂ  iers 
and got to work. Since then, Cook-iegazm has become a major player 
in Gainesville’s cookie scene, receiv-ing dozens of orders per night and as 
many as 95 orders on a recent busy 
evening.
Last week, Jordi Lorido, a 
21-year-old UF economics senior, ordered ﬁ  ve cookies. He said the variety of ﬂ  avor combinations, from peanut butter and jelly to Nutella, appeal to him.
“I got some crazy s---,” he said of 
his order. “It was like red velvet with M&M’s and a marshmallow on it.”
But with no ﬁ  xed location, the 
company has moved around to 
multiple restaurants since the be-
ginning, including Omi’s Tavern in downtown Gainesville, from which it currently operates.
Leal said he is looking for a store-
front close to campus where stu-dents can eat and hang out.
“Who doesn’t want to experience 
what a Cookiegazm feels like?” he 
said.
Local cookie-delivery business raising money for permanent store
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A New York dance company will be perform-
ing on a raft on a pond Saturday. 
The Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, 
the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art, the Florida 
Museum of Natural History and Southwest Rec-
reation Center have collaborated to host the ﬁ  rst 
Cultural Plaza Festival. The free public event will run from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
The main event, Trisha Brown Dance Com-
pany’s “In Plain Site,” will start outside at 1 p.m. by the Phillips Center fountain in a two-part performance, said Brian Jose, the director of UF Performing Arts. 
The hourlong performance will ﬁ  nish with 
the dancers on a raft on a pond next to the Harn.  
“UF and Gainesville punch way above its weight culturally,” Jose said. “I think (the fes-tival) is a great way (for) people to get a great scope and the magniﬁ  cence of the cultural of-
ferings.” 
Visitors can try UF RecSports’ ﬁ  tness obstacle 
course or bring their own fossils to the natural 
history museum, where a scientist will identify them, Jose said. Guests can also help transcribe specimen information from the museum’s WeD-igBio program, a digitized natural history collec-tion. 
Harn spokeswoman Tami Wroath said she 
wants people to be more aware of the UF Cul-tural Plaza, and the festival allows people to stop by all of the venues. The Harn’s choreographer-in-residence, Andrea Ward, will also perform. 
“We’re hoping that this will be something 
that we’ll continue for years to come,” Wroath said. First Cultural Plaza Festival 
to oﬀ  er dance performance
By Kelsey Peña
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will help raise money for girls’ 
education in developing countries Sunday.
She’s the First UF will hold its second an-
nual Day of the Girl Summit to educate stu-
dents about global gender-inequality issues 
while raising scholarship funds through the 
donations required to attend, which are $5 during presale and $7 at the door. The sum-mit, which includes workshops and panels, will run from 9 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. in Ustler Hall. 
Last year, STF UF raised about $400 dur-
ing the summit for girls from countries such as Uganda, Ethiopia and Peru, said Valentina 
Lopez-Diaz, the group’s vice president of op-
erations. The money raised will be given to the STF national chapter for scholarships to fund the education of six girls. 
Many of these girls will be the ﬁ  rst in their 
families to graduate from high school, the 20-year-old UF marketing junior said. 
“I think being educated is one of the great-
est gifts I’ve ever had,” Lopez-Diaz said. “I think that everyone deserves a chance to get an education, especially girls, because we have the power to change the world.”
About 100 people can attend the summit, 
and there are about 60 spots left, said Mi-
chelle Ospina, the summit’s director. She said 
she hopes to raise as much money as possible for the girls.
“I think it just gives everyone a purpose 
and connects each one of us together,” the 19-year-old UF industrial and systems engi-neering sophomore said. She’s the First UF event 
funds scholarships for girls FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
ing able to go to school and his 
home. Anywhere else would have put his life at risk.
But Bravo, now 22, has never 
forgotten his roots. The UF indus-
trial and systems engineering se-
nior said the campaign is a way for him and the Venezuelan communi-ty in Gainesville to help those who 
still suffer in Venezuela.
“It’s really hard for me to imag-
ine what’s going on,” Bravo said. 
“And even though I don’t have family there right now, I still feel connected, because that’s the country where I grew up ... It was the place I learned my values and 
the person that I am right now.”
The organization had planned 
to hold a drive to collect donations, 
Bravo said, until Allie Jackson, 19, approached the organization about a month ago with the idea to make the campaign bigger.
“I just really wanted people to 
know how people are suffering in Venezuela,” Jackson, a UF adver-tising sophomore, said.
As the advertising director for 
Restless Heart Communications, an organization within Catholic Gators, Jackson worked with Ven-sa to create videos of students talk-
ing about daily life in Venezuela.
Jackson saw the effects of the 
country’s turmoil ﬁ  rsthand when 
her 96-year-old great-grandmother moved from Venezuela to Spain, and then to Miami, to live with her daughter — Jackson’s grand-mother. 
In three weeks, Jackson worked 
with Vensa to put together events that encourage students to support the country. Vensa partnered with Movimiento Organizado de Vene-zolanos en el Exterior (MOVE), a nonproﬁ  t organization that sends necessities to people in Venezuela. 
Janeth Avilés, the vice president 
of MOVE New York, said the situ-ation in Venezuela is a humanitar-ian crisis. 
“People are dying of hunger,” 
she said in Spanish. “There is no food, there is no medicine.” 
Avilés, who has been working 
with UF student organizations, said she works with 29 organizations in Venezuela to spread out supplies. 
She said she’s grateful for stu-
dents’ help. They show the citizens of Venezuela they’re not alone.
“Los vamos ayudar,” she said: 
“We are going to help them.”
She said the organization tracks 
where donations go. It can be dif-ﬁ  cult to get goods across the coun-try’s border to Venezuelans in need, but Avilés said it’s important to help. 
“Eso es bueno en los ojos 
de Dios, porque se hace con el corazón,” she said: “That is good in the eyes of God, because you do it with your heart.”
mgomez@alligator.org 
VENEZUELA,  from pg. 1They plan to send boxes of food and hygiene products to Venezuela
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff
Kayla Thurber, a 19-year-old UF English sophomore, wore face paint on Wednesday evening at a vigil for Venezuela held at the St. Augustine Catholic Church. She wore the face paint to “raise awareness for the food and medicine drive, ” which will support Venezuela. 
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
From left: Jose Fonseca, a 23-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering senior, and his girlfriend, Victoria Arevalo, a 20-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering junior, watch Simon Grossman perform at Omi’s T avern on Thursday. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca 
East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   11-15-16-20-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Sublease available. Nov. 1
1 Bed/1 Bath 559 month 500 dep.
Addison Lane Apts.
321-443-0412
Back Check/Proof of Income/Application
10-26-16-4-3
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
*****THE PUMPKIN PATCH*****
At Littlewood Elementary School
812 NW 34th St by Westside Park
M-F 3-7pm*****Sat-Sun 12-7pm
CASH ONLY****Close to Campus
10-25-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 AutosFRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Designated drivers are the greatestCARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647        10-21-1-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
OFFICE ASSISTANTImmediate, $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, inter-net surfing, computer savvy. Resume & daily available hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    10-25-16-10-14
CLINICAL RESEARCH INTERNSNeeded pre-med & medical students.
 
Contact Dr Shah Rahimian 814-691-7377    10-24-5-14
WANTED: TYPIST / ASSISTANT.
Must be local and reliable. 5-10 hrs/week. 
Flexible. Call after 6m, leave info 352-378-
9771    10-25-16-4-14
Entry Level
Heavy Equipment Operator Career!Get Trained –Get Certified-Get Hired! Bulldozers, Backhoes and ExcavatorsImmediate, Lifetime Job Placement,VA Benefits1-866-362-6497        10-21-1-14
ACROSS
1 Deceptive
operation
6 Work with a
number
10 Deceptive
distortion
14 Indulge
15 Probe-launching
org.
16 Words often after
a number
17 Place to take a
36-Down
19 Attire20 Euripides drama21 Cook books, say22 Venomous reptile25 Place to run a
36-Down
28 Horror film
reaction
30 Way out31 __ Throne: “Game
of Thrones”monarchy
32 They may span
decades
34 Tack on37 Place to install a
36-Down
41 Pasture parent42 Members of an
exclusive league
43 Pasta choice44 Lack of focus45 See 12-Down47 Place to hold a
36-Down
52 PC file extension53 One percent, so
to speak
54 Lead-in to a
drink?
56 Fund-raiser,
perhaps
57 Place to hit a 
36-Down
62 “Totally!”63 Brink64 Mill output65 Not
66 Wolfish look
67 Neighborhood
posting
DOWN
1 “__ Hate Me”:
Spike Lee film
2 Prom duds3 Devil
4 Social convention
5 Country
bordering threeseas
6 Kickoff7 Grab for clumsily8 “Royal Pains”
network
9 Declare
10 “Well, whoop-de-
do”
11 Get duded up12 With 45-Across,
“The BicentennialMan” author
13 Up __18 Deadwood’s
state: Abbr.
21 Like new bills22 Out of the way
23 Nag
24 Essay makeup26 Locking blocks27 End-of-term
ordeal
29 Letterpress need32 VP after Hubert33 Expert34 Fairy-tale intro
words
35 Do a juice
cleanse, say36 Theme of this
puzzle
38 El Niño feature
39 Female gamete40 Action film
weapon
44 Mendel’s science45 Novelist Waugh46 Wave to from the
dock
47 Initiated48 Andean transport49 Edmonton NHL
player
50 Hull region51 Deduce55 Sigh-inducing57 Holder of locks58 Shelley work59 Scheider of
“Jaws”
60 Seek payback,
maybe
61 Fumble, e.g.
By Chuck Deodene©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/21/1610/21/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, October 21, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesFRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 
minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!
52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305        10-21-1-16
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 PersonalsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Gregg Troy will lead the Florida 
swimming and diving teams into competition against Indiana and No. 1 T exas this weekend. Read the story online at alligator.org/sports Former Gator puts up points in NBA preseason 
New York Knicks center Joakim Noah scored 12 points while grabbing six 
rebounds and picking up a block during his team's 116-111 preseason win over the Brooklyn Nets on Thursday. By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Melanie Monteagudo raced across Ala-
bama’s penalty box through a sea of bodies 
as Meggie Dougherty Howard’s pass glided through the air toward her.
Monteagudo had just entered the field as 
a substitute. Five minutes later, her first big opportunity presented itself.
The sophomore forward took advantage, 
diving and heading the cross from Dougherty 
Howard past Crimson Tide goalkeeper Kat 
Stratton from 3 yards away to give Florida a 
commanding 2-0 lead heading into halftime.
“(She) played a perfect ball,” Monteagudo 
said. “Diving headers count too for us, so I 
just went for it.”
The early goal set the tone for a second-
half blowout, as the No. 20 Gators (11-4, 6-3 Southeastern Conference) defeated unranked Alabama (8-7-1, 3-5-1 SEC) 6-0 on Thursday night at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. UF in-
creased its all-time record against the Crim-
son Tide to 19-1-2.
The Gators shut down Alabama in near-
ly all facets of the game, not only holding the Crimson Tide scoreless but also keeping them from attempting a single shot.
Florida, in comparison, took 18 shots — 
13 of them on goal — and its six-goal differ-ential was its highest over an opponent this 
season.
“I’m really happy with the way everyone 
came out,” Dougherty Howard said. “We fought hard for each other and played for the 
full 90 minutes. We were obviously able to get a really good result from it.”
All six of UF’s goals came from different 
players.
Senior forward Savannah Jordan got the 
night started in the 14th minute after scoring from 8 yards away off an assist from sopho-more midfielder Mayra Pelayo. The goal was 
Jordan’s 13th of the year and the 78th of her 
career.
After Monteagudo’s header sent Florida 
into the half up by two, Dougherty Howard converted on a penalty kick in the 67th min-ute to move the lead to three.
Senior forward Brooke Sharp then scored 
in the 72nd minute on a wide-open net after a shot deflected off Stratton right to her from 3 yards away.
Senior midfielder Pamela Begic and fresh-
man forward Kit Loferski concluded the Gators’ barrage of goals, scoring at the 72:18 and 74:41 marks, respectively.
“Everything opened up,” Jordan said. “I 
think everyone played a role. We had six 
people score different goals tonight, so that’s 
amazing to have a team win like that.”
Next, Florida will hold its senior day on 
Sunday against Mississippi State at 1 p.m. UF has eight seniors on its roster, including three starters in Jordan, Dougherty Howard and defender Erika Nelson.
“It’s definitely crazy thinking it’s our last 
regular season home game and senior day,” Dougherty Howard said. “Time flies, so I’m just trying to not think about it too much. It’s going to be an emotional game.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgFlorida soccer dominates ‘Bama in 6-0 win
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Melanie Monteagudo (far right) heads in a goal during Florida's 6-0 win over Alabama 
on Thursday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
 
This season, Allie Monserez 
has been dominant.
Florida’s success has been in 
large part due to its setter ex -
ecuting well-timed sets to her teammates and allowing hitters to attack aggressively.
The redshirt sophomore has 
both created kills for teammates and acted as the catalyst for the offense.
“Everyone’s in the same mind
-
set,” Monserez said Wednesday. “It just allows me to distribute the ball really well… It all really came together.”
Through the first 18 matches 
of the season, Monserez has av
-
eraged a nation-leading 12.35 as -
sists per set. And she has shown no signs of slowing down.
In an Oct. 14 road battle with 
LSU, Monserez boasted a dou
-
ble-double, totaling 32 assists and a seasn-high 16 digs.
Two days later, she followed 
that up with a 57-assist show -
case on the road against Texas A&M. The performance tied her season high for assists. The oth
-
er time came in an Oct. 2 match against Tennessee.
Her strong play earned her Southeastern Conference Player of the Week and the ACVA Play
-
er of the Week award, given to the best players in the nation. 
And on Wednesday, ESPNW 
announced that Monserez also won its Player of the Week award, marking the sixth acco
-Florida volleyball thriving off play of setter MonserezStaff Report 
Ahh, bye week.There’s nothing quite like those seven 
magical days a year when you, the ever-so-loyal sports fan, don’t have to sweat about the week’s upcoming matchup 
and wonder if all the vocal cords you 
burst while yelling at the TV during the 
last six weeks of football were in vain. 
We here at alligatorSports would like 
to take this opportunity to follow in the 
Florida Gators' lead and take our own 
bye week from sports analysis. 
So, naturally, we’ll delve deep into 
the topic that all die-hard sports fans 
want to read about: Broadway musicals.
In this edition of the picks column, 
we’ll examine some of the song titles from the hit Broadway show "Hamilton" and relate them in some way to Flori-da’s football team.
Stick with us. All of this totally makes 
sense.
1. My ShotWe’ll start off with an easy one. 
Much like Alexander Hamilton, the Flor-ida Gators cannot afford to throw away their shot. Six games into the season, UF leads the Southeastern Conference East Division. If they win out, the Gators will earn a return trip to the SEC title game. 
Don’t blow it, UF.2. The Schuyler SistersTwo people in the same position bat-
tling for the attention of a man in a blue coat who is fighting to defeat his oppo-nents.
No, this isn’t the story of Angelica 
and Eliza Schuyler swooning over Ham-ilton. 
This is the quarterback duel of Luke 
Del Rio and Austin Appleby, each try-
ing to convince Jim McElwain that they PICKS:  
Bye Week 
Edition
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
deserve the starting job. 
And like Eliza, Del Rio is the 
clear favorite to win over the man 
in the blue coat. Go back to Pur-due, Angelica.
3. Wait for itBefore the season began, run-
ning back Mark Thompson set a lofty goal for himself: 1,000 yards 
by the bye week. Go ahead and 
check how many yards he current-
ly has. We’ll wait for it.
4. HurricaneToo obvious.
5. Satisfied
This one largely rests on how 
Florida finishes out the season. 
With UF’s current standing in the division, you’ve got to think McEl-
wain and the rest of the Gators 
won’t be too satisfied if they miss 
out on the SEC title game. And even if they make the 
SEC title game but lose, how will Florida feel? Will it have been a successful season, even with a second-straight loss in the confer-ence championship? At what point do they stop being satisfied with championship appearances and start demanding victories? 
But that’s a long way away. A 5-1 record? Yeah, Florida is satisfied.
Game of the week 
Debating this week’s game 
between Rutgers and Minnesota is assistant sports editor Ethan 
Bauer and football writer Jordan 
McPherson.
Rutgers (+19) will win be-
cause…
As the saying goes, experience 
is king. The Scarlet Knights are one of the oldest intercollegiate 
athletic programs in the United States, going strong since the mid-1800s. They should have no problem against Minnesota. Also, Rutgers is in New Jersey -- and ev-erything is legal in New Jersey.
-Jordan McPherson
Minnesota (-19) will win be-
cause…  
Minnesota’s mascot is “Goldy” 
the Gopher. And just for exhibit-
ing such raw creativity in mascot 
naming, the Golden Gophers cover 
the spread over the lowly Scarlett 
Knights. 
-Ethan Bauer
Now, onto the picks!
In first place with a 31-23-1 re-
cord is sports editor Ian “Profes-
sional Couch Chef” Cohen, who’s become abnormally obsessed with 
the Food Network’s hit cooking show, Chopped. You may — em-phasis on may — know more about cooking than the rest of us, Ian, but that's not saying much. After a week of hearing about how the banana pepper garnish changes the "dynamics" of your sandwich, it's time to come to terms with the fact that you're not actually a chef — unless this sports thing doesn't work out.
In second place with a 28-26-
1 record is the Gainesville Sun’s Graham “It’s On You” Hall, who 
left out a quote from Jim McEl-
wain’s Monday press conference 
last week, thus sending the en-
tire media contingent into a mini 
freak-out attack. How many mid-
dle-aged, balding sports reporters 
does it take to get a quote correct? 
Apparently four, and one unshav-
en ex-frat star.
In third place with a 26-28-1 
record is the Orlando Sentinel’s 
Edgar “Ruined Day” Thompson, 
who, upon hearing he went 1-7 
in last week’s picks, sent out an 
angry email to all of the picks 
column participants with far too 
many exclamation points. It’s OK 
Edgar. The good news is, you 
can’t do much worse.
Next, we have a two-way tie 
for fourth place with a record of 
25-29-1.
First is GatorCountry.com’s 
Nick “Clean Shaven” De La Torre, 
who, according to an unnamed 
source, shaves his arms and chest 
frequently. We understand, Nick. Someone’s gotta keep that bod 
aerodynamic for burpees at the 
gym.Next is assistant sports editor 
Ethan “Let’s Go Home Team!” Bauer, who, more often than not, wears colors that suspiciously re-semble the Gators’ orange and blue when covering football games. We get it, Ethan. It’s a “red” tie on top of your blue button-down shirt, not a dark orange tie. But next time, take some pointers from your color-blind sports editor and throw on a gray dress shirt.
We have another two-way tie 
for fifth place with a record of 23-
31-1.
First is 247sports.com’s Thom-
as “Stalking Tactics” Goldkamp, 
who claims he only needs a first 
name, one minute and internet ac-
cess to find attractive women. So, 
Goldy, are you gonna message her 
and ask her out or just keep star-
ing at her profile picture that you 
printed out and hung over your 
bed?
Next is online editor Patrick 
“Verified” Pinak, who probably 
feels all high and mighty because 
the alligatorSports Twitter account 
was verified under his watch as 
online editor. We’ll give it to you 
Patrick: the account’s emoji game 
has indeed been on fleek lately. 
But don’t go letting your head 
swell. There’s nothing worse than 
an online editor with an ego.
And in dead-ass last with a 
piss-poor record of 21-33-1 is foot-
ball writer Jordan “But My Stats!” McPherson, who, although he 
won’t admit it, has undoubtedly 
spent countless hours calculat-
ing college football statistics to put him in first place and win the 
picks column. That’s working out 
really well for ya, huh Jordan?PICKS,  from pg. 14
lade — she  earned three SEC Setter of the Week awards dur
-
ing the beginning of the season — of the year for Monserez.  
While a lot of attention can 
go to hitters or middle blockers who get large doses of kills per match, Monserez drastically af
-
fects their play as well. 
Middle blockers Rachel Kram -
er and Rhamat Alhassan have hitting percentages of .490 and .414, ranked first and 11th in Di
-
vision I, respectively.  
“Allie and I were connecting 
so well this weekend," Alhassan said. 
"As a middle, I can’t do any
-
thing… without Allie setting me.”
Monserez’s play is also affect
-
ed by other back-row players, such as libero Caroline Knop, hitter Carli Snyder and defensive specialist Allie Gregory.
Florida’s deep rotation of 
players that are defensively sound make it much easier for Monserez to get in a groove and 
find teammates on a consistent 
basis.
“Those three are our work
-
horses in terms of the first con -
tact," coach Mary Wise said of 
Knop, Snyder and Monserez. 
Now, as the Gators prepare 
for a four-game home stand, they must make sure they don’t get too comfortable and underes
-
timate upcoming SEC opponents. 
Both Mississippi State, which 
Florida plays tonight, and Geor -
gia carry sub-.500 conference records, but that doesn’t mean that they should be overlooked.
With the team clicking and 
all facets of its game executing properly, Monserez is confident that good things are to come.
“With everyone playing so 
well together," Monserez said, "if we keep playing like that, it’s just a fun environment to be in."
 @skylerlebron
Slebron@alligator.orgVOLLEY,  from pg. 14UF plays Miss. St. tonight
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Allie Monserez (22) celebrates with teammate Rhamat Alhassan during Florida's Sept. 17 win over Marshall in the Lemerand Center. Monserez had 57 assists in UF's win against T exas A&M on Sunday.
16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2016
