We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 1 MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
Florida earns second win of season 
Savannah Jordan had one goal and 
one assist, pg 23
Shands to open room for assault survivors
The private room will open by the end of the year, pg 8
UF group helps with fee waivers
The aid goes to undocumented students, pg 10Local brewery hosts anniversary
First Magnitude Brewery held a 12-hour party, pg 10
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
On the ground ﬂ  oor of Jennings Hall, UF’s 
president lived with more than 500 students. 
President Kent Fuchs and his wife, Linda, 
stayed in room 2026 from Aug. 15 to Saturday to 
help new and returning students move in and to 
experience on-campus life. After learning about 
a university president who lived in a residence hall, he said he wanted to try it. 
Fuchs knew he wouldn’t be able to meet all 
7,000 new students, but he thought if he stayed 
on campus, he could meet more. 
“It would send a message to all the students 
and their families that the university cares about 
them enough where the president will be there when they arrive,” he said.
Though he lived in a private apartment with a 
private bathroom, Fuchs took some of his meals at the Broward Dining Center. His only luxury from the President’s House was his little espresso machine. 
While meeting new students, Fuchs helped 
lug boxes and bins to students’ rooms.
Micaela Di Vico, an 18-year-old UF communi-
cation sciences and disorders freshman, was one of the many students who met him during Fuchs’ stay in the hall.
Di Vico said she hadn’t seen the president be-
fore the Orlando Pulse shooting vigil at Century Tower. She met him Wednesday while unloading  President Fuchs welcomes new students
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Bed bugs, urine-covered car-
pets and missing furniture. 
That’s what some residents at 
The Pavilion on 62nd found in 
their apartments as they tried to move in this past weekend. But as they waited in line at the com-
plex’s main ofﬁ  ce, there was little 
response from management, they said. 
Enrique Kopetman, 55, said 
he rushed to the ofﬁ  ce Saturday 
morning after he walked into his 
daughter, Sara’s, new apartment and was appalled by the condi-tions. 
“When I walked in, it was 
ﬁ  lthy,” Kopetman said, describing a moldy AC and foam on the bed, 
which was coated with stains and 
bed bugs instead of a mattress. “There was this toxic smell as soon as we opened the door, like a combination of urine and feces.”
By 10 a.m., he said, he was 
one of 50 people in line with com-plaints for management. But when he asked to cancel the lease con-
tract, which promised a profes-
sional cleaning and walk-through by management before move-in day, Kopetman said the manager refused. “She said, ‘No, we’re going 
to ﬁ  x it today,’” he said Sunday night. “That was Saturday morn-ing. I went back today and every-
thing was the same.”
The apartment complex, lo-
cated at 1000 SW 62nd Blvd., was 
sold to Pierce Education Proper-ties at the end of May, said Bob 
Hetherington, a representative for 
the complex, who described the move-in weekend as “chaotic” in a statement. Staff at the ofﬁ  ce de-
clined to comment, and reporters 
were asked to leave the property. 
Maria Godwin, a 21-year-old 
UF nursing junior, waited with 20 other upset residents on Sunday. She said she and her roommate had tried reaching out to staff about their apartment.
“Just name it, everything was 
wrong,” she said. “My room-mate’s mattress was covered in stains and was urinated on; it was disgusting. We told the staff about it and (they) told us they 
were only ﬁ  xing things that were 
urgent.”
In the statement, Hetherington 
said one of two professional clean-
ing ﬁ  rms hired to help prepare the 
apartments left prematurely, lead-ing to “some frustration and short 
 Pavilion on 62nd tenants deal with ‘ﬁ  lthy’ roomsBy Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Starting today, UF students can 
rent hammocks across campus. 
Student Government purchased 
30 hammocks to rent through Rec-
Sports, said Jason Richards, the SG 
external affairs director. Students 
can show their Gator 1 Cards to rent one for free at the Student Recre-ation & Fitness Center, Southwest 
Recreation Center, Broward Out-
door Recreation Complex or Lake Wauburg’s North and South shores. 
With ﬁ  ve hammocks at each lo-
cation, ﬁ  ve extra ones will be used as needed across campus, he said. Hammock rentals will follow the same procedure as other outdoor equipment, which can be kept for up to 48 hours, according to the RecSports website. 
The rental program cost more 
than $1,650 for hammocks from Ea-gles Nest Outﬁ  tters, Inc., Richards said. SG worked with the company for discounted two-person double-nest hammocks and straps, which usually cost about $90, he said. 
“It’s been something that’s been 
talked about by students for a very 
long time,” he said. 
Douglas Tam, UF Hammock 
Club’s president and a 22-year-
old pharmacy graduate student, worked with Richards to create the program. 
“More and more people want to 
get outside and enjoy the outdoors,” Tam said.
Hunter Wolff, an 18-year-old 
UF political science freshman, said she might rent a hammock once the weather cools down. 
“I don’t see myself using one 
regularly,” she said. “It would be nice to have that option.” 
SG also plans to introduce Gato-
rade stations around campus, but 
details as to when and where they 
will be available are still being ﬁ  nal-
ized, Richards said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org   Hammock 
rentals now available 
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
FOOTBALL FAN FRENZY
UF football players sign posters for fans as part of Gators Football Fan Day on Saturday. For photos of convocation and other ﬁ  rst week 
freshman activities, see page 14.CAMPUS
He stayed in Jennings Hall 
SEE RESIDENCE,  PAGE 5
SEE PAVILION,  PAGE 5Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  95° LOW  74°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Museum’s ‘Butterfly Rainforest’ 
exhibit to close at 4 p.m. 
through Oct. 6
The Butterfly Rainforest exhibit at the Florida Museum of Natural History will close early at 4 p.m., with last admission at 3:30 p.m., through Oct. 6 for scheduled 
maintenance. The exhibit will also 
be closed all day Sept. 7 and Oct. 5 for roof maintenance. Please visit flmnh.ufl.edu or call 352-846-2000 for more information.
Belly Dancing for All Ages
The Cairo Grille, located at 2410 NW 43rd St., invites you to learn the ancient art of belly dancing and enjoy exercise and good food 
in a free master class by the Al 
Amoura Dancers. It will be Sept. 10 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Call 352-727-7071 for more informa-tion.
The Annual Movers and Shakers 
GalaProfessionals from all over are invited to attend this Red Carpet, 
all-VIP networking event. The 
gala is held only once a year to create a special energy that will foster more interaction and com-munication between participants. Though upscale and elite, the at-mosphere of the gala will be low-pressure in order to encourage effective networking that will es-tablish meaningful and profitable relationships and partnerships. 
The Movers and Shakers Gala 
will be Oct. 1 at the Gainesville Woman’s Club, located at 2809 W. University Ave. The gala will include food, an open bar, live entertainment and prizes. Tickets are $25. For more information, please call 352-208-4894 or email vgrant@gainesvilleblackprofes-
sionals.com. 
Global Culture Photography 
Contest 
If you are a UF student, faculty, staff, alumni traveling abroad or a UF international student or schol-ar, you are eligible to enter the 2016 Global Culture Photography Competition. Judges will award 
a first, second and third place 
in each of four categories. First-prize winners will each receive $100, second-prize winners will receive $50 and third-prize win-ners will receive $25. A total of $525 in prizes will be awarded. No photographic experience is required, just a love for snap-ping pictures and a yearning to explore. The submission period is open. Entries must be received no later than Oct. 7. For complete information, visit ufic.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gome, mgomez@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  PatrickPinak, ppinak@alligator.org  
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  David Hoffman,  Melissa Smith  
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson, Mia Gettenberg
Copy Editors  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
                                                                                                 Michael Smith     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordon Thurn
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 1
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
Depot Park is combining its rich 
history with new beginnings.
Depot Park, located at 200 SE 
Depot Ave., ofﬁ  cially opened Sat-
urday morning. Planning started for the park in the 1990s, said Josh Blackford, the principal/project manager for Oelrich Construction. It’s an opening that has been in the works since the city bought the property, intending to turn the once polluted soil into something great. 
Construction happened over 
the past ﬁ  ve years. Before the park could be designed, cleanup and construction needed to happen. Before Oelrich Construction began planning and constructing the park two years ago, new ponds, soil and stormwater treatment centers had to be installed.
“It’s kind of like an iceberg,” 
Blackford said. “There’s a lot more under the surface here than what anyone really knows about.” 
Today, there’s no danger, con-
tamination or pollutants in the ground, he said. The group took every measure, more than is even required, to ensure the park would be safe. 
Every department and agency 
in town had something to do with the park, said Cindi Harvey, Depot Park’s lead project manager. In the early 2000s, after the city purchased the land, it removed 200,000 tons of contaminated soil. 
After years of uncertainty, plan-
ning and construction started. The 
redevelopment cost the Gainesville 
Community Redevelopment Agen-cy upwards of $5.9 million, she 
said. The money for revitalizing the 
park came from a mixture of differ-
ent local funds and state grants.
The large building under con-
struction in the park will be the new location for the Cade Museum, 
which is currently across the street. 
Opening in the fall of 2017, it will 
be a place for 6- to 12-year-olds to 
experiment with creativity and in-
ventions, said Leslie Ladendorf, the 
development director for the mu-
seum.
The museum will be an anchor 
property that will rent the space from the city for $1 each year for 
75 years. 
Harvey said the playground, 
which sits at just over a football ﬁ  eld in length, tells the story of 
Gainesville. It starts with a large 
train jungle gym that sits near the 
old train depot. As the pathways 
twist, visitors end up in the Sweet-
water branch, which drains into 
the ponds at the park. 
The playground ends with a 
large climbing rock with fossils 
imbedded in it. It also has a splash 
pad, made to represent the Floridan aquifer.
Currently, Depot Park has only 
half of its staff. With a full staff, the 
park will have around-the-clock 
two-person teams from dawn until 
dusk to secure and watch the park. At dusk, security cameras on the south side of the play area will turn on, Harvey said.
Over the next year, an event 
space, leased by the owners of the Wooly, and a café will be installed 
in the depot building, she said. At 
this time only Pop-a-Top is open, but it sells everything from food 
and drinks to toys and sunscreen.“Once the Depot is full and the 
museum is complete, families will be able to come here all day,” Har-
vey said. “It’s going to be a one-
stop shop.”
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Jasmine Osmond / Alligator Staff
Children play in the water splash pad at the grand opening of Depot Park on Saturday. The splash pad 
is made to be a visual representation of the Floridan Aquifer.
 Depot Park: from industrial wasteland to community hub4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
One of Gainesville’s longest-
standing independent restaurants, 
which has served pizza to UF students since 1973, may close in about a year. 
Leonardo’s By the Slice, lo-
cated at 1245 W. University Ave., 
was purchased by the UF Founda-
tion, along with the adjacent Bistro 1245, UF spokesman Steve Orlando wrote in an email. The deal, initi-
ated by the restaurant’s owner, 
Steve Solomon, requires Leonar-do’s to stay open until the summer 
of 2017. 
UF hasn’t determined a timeline 
or purpose for the property, wrote 
Lee Nelson, UF’s director of real es-tate, in an email. 
Employees like Shannon Ne-
hiley may have to ﬁ  nd a new job when the restaurant closes. 
The 21-year-old UF sustainabil-
ity and built environment senior started working at Leonardo’s By 
the Slice about a year ago. 
Nehiley said if she stays in 
Gainesville after she graduates this 
year, she may have to ﬁ  nd another job. But like her post-graduation plans, the restaurant’s closing date 
is unclear. 
“Even that date a year from now 
is not set in stone,” she said. “They 
don’t automatically tear it down. It 
might be two years, who knows?” 
But the property’s sale didn’t 
come as a surprise, she said. 
“There’s just developments 
popping up everywhere, especially 
near the campus,” Nehiley said. “It 
wasn’t that we didn’t make enough 
money.” 
Meanwhile, students like Ethan 
Cassidy may have to ﬁ  nd a new place to buy their favorite slice of pizza next year.
The 19-year-old UF history 
sophomore used to walk from his  freshman year apartment for a slice of greek pizza. He said he was up-set when he heard about the pur-
chase.
“I’m sad about it, mainly,” he 
said. “It’s my go-to place.” 
For other residents, Leonardo’s 
is another business to go in a line 
of recent closings on University Av-
enue.
Gainesville resident Ryan Spi-
vak started eating at Leonardo’s 
about 20 years ago as a student at Santa Fe College. He remembers 
when a slice of cheese pizza cost $1.50.
Now, he’s sad to see another 
business on University Avenue 
closing. 
“It sucks that they’re build-
ing these big-ass buildings every-
where,” the 40-year-old said. “It’s 
kind of annoying that they’re tear-
ing old Gainesville down.”
But he said he hopes Leonardo’s 
owner will eventually make the 
pizza available at Leonardo’s 706. 
“He’s just going to move into 
his other restaurant anyway,” he 
said. “Leo’s is not going away; he’s 
just moving.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  Employees, students react to purchase of Leonardo’s 
The restaurant may close in a year
the car with her roommate, Brooklynn.
“We were unloading her car with a bunch of 
food items in a box, and he came up to us super 
friendly, and he was like ‘Oh, are you stocking up on food or are you moving in?’” Di Vico said. 
“And I told him ‘Both — a little bit of both.’”
Fuchs also learned more about the campus it-
self by taking tours of all the residence halls and 
learning their histories. But he said one of his most memorable experiences was the shaving-cream ﬁ  ght in Yulee Pit, even though the students won.
Adam Tamargo, a UF computer science fresh-
man, moved into Jennings Hall from Tampa on Thursday.
“I think that it’s pretty cool to have him come 
down and live here with us, and it shows that he is pretty involved and cares about kids,” the 
18-year-old said. “That’s why I’ve always admired 
the president.” 
At the end of the week, Fuchs said he didn’t 
mind the residence hall beds and was impressed at how great the residence staff performed.
But he isn’t sure if he’ll be doing it again soon.“I asked my wife if she’ll do it with me again, 
and she said it was a lot of fun but she wants to think about it,” he said. “So I hope we get to do 
it!”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org RESIDENCE,  from pg 1Fuchs also took part in a shaving-cream ight Tenants angry 
over rooms
Kelsey Bona / Alligator Staff 
UF President Kent Fuchs takes a selﬁ  e with Inter-Residence Hall Association Vice 
President Carina Krehl at Yulee Pit on Thursday. Fuchs spent move-in week at Jennings Hall, meeting students and helping them unpack.
tempers” Saturday as senior man-
agers focused on “high-priority is-sues.” But, he said, any unﬁ  nished 
units were cleaned by Sunday. 
“Resolving resident concerns is 
part of daily life in student hous-
ing,” Hetherington said. “That’s 
happening at The Pavilion on 62nd. 
Residents express concerns; the staff works to resolve them. That give-and-take is a routine matter.”
Kopetman said while he found 
his daughter a new place to live before classes Monday, he plans on getting a lawyer to address the situation.
“Something must have gone very 
wrong with that management,” he said. “There’s no way they’ll have 
the resources to ﬁ  x these problems 
in a timely manner.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org PAVILION,  from pg 1The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Welcoming the semester with excitement, pride
I am exhausted from the emotions of the 
past few days.
As a former college student, a former 
university professor and now as UF’s president, I know to expect that the last 
week of summer and the first week of class-es will be emotional. I’m always sad when 
summer ends, and I’m always anxious when 
the new academic year begins. 
I’m also always energized and excited by 
the challenges and opportunities of new classes and in meeting new friends and colleagues.
This year, the emotions are more intense than ever 
before.
Living on campus in the Dasburg House with my 
wife, Linda, allows us to experience the seasons and 
rhythm of UF. 
For the past week, however, we have experienced 
the emotions of campus life from an even closer van-
tage point: a residence hall — specifically Jennings Hall, Room 2026. 
While living in Jennings, we have greeted fami-
lies and helped new students move in across campus. We’ve eaten in the dining halls, explored the tunnels 
of Sledd Hall and been a part of fun activities at night, 
including a Yulee-area shaving cream fight with hun-dreds of students. In the midst of the fun, energy and anxiety 
of the new academic year, I also participated in a sad but beautiful service in the Baugh-
man Center on Lake Alice, mourning the loss 
and celebrating the life of second-year UF law student Connor Pace.
As I’ve worked on writing Thursday’s an-
nual State of the University address, I have reflected on both the history and future of our beloved and great university. 
Our aspiration is to be recognized as the very best 
in all that we do. We are already among the best, and 
now we are determined to be the very best. 
I was filled with happiness and pride last week as 
I welcomed hundreds of new faculty to our campus, 
and I told them they are now part of an amazing uni-
versity. 
I told them I wished for them great joy in their 
teaching and scholarship and that throughout their ca-
reers they would always aspire to even greater excel-lence in all they do as UF faculty.
If you are a new student, faculty member or member 
of UF’s staff, then I trust you feel warmly welcomed. As you will learn, it is great to be a Florida Gator! 
Please do give a shoutout when you see me walking 
across campus, in line at Starbucks, attending an event or on Twitter (@PresidentFuchs). My personal email is kent.fuchs@ufl.edu, and I always welcome notes with suggestions, criticisms, questions, praise or any of your thoughts.  
I wish for all members of the UF community a new 
academic year filled with diligence, hard work, suc-cess and joyful emotions. Go Gators!
Kent Fuchs is the president of UF. His column ap-
pears monthly. A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away, a displaced Mid-
westerner on a crazy acid trip turned to her dog-in-hand and said, “Toto, I have a feeling we’re not in Kansas any-more.”
Minus the Midwestern heritage and acid trip (or not), 
many of you now probably feel like Dorothy in Oz, balking at the mystery and excitement of all that surrounds you. Only, instead of Toto, you’ll probably turn to your roommate for companion-ship in this new enchanted land: unless, of course, you’d con-sider a cute dog like Toto more of a roommate than your actual roommate — totally legit.
Last week we published a “New Student’s Edition” of the pa-
per, and in the editorial we talked anger and restraint with our new Gators. Feeling angry is good; to feel angry is to feel the 
energy and passion necessary to tackle the issues and injustices 
of our time. Unfortunately, people often let their anger dominate their opinions without any desire to keep their opinions in check.
Restraint is necessary. To practice restraint is to recognize our 
own ignorance and act on growing our awareness and deepening the accuracy of our understanding. In other words, to practice restraint is to make sure you actually know what you’re talking about: This way, your anger has value and you’re not just being a dick.
Read, feel angry, question yourself, question the world, ques-
tion some more, read some more: This is the balance we should all be striving for, what we coin, “The Alligator’s ﬁ  ve-step plan to mastery and dominance over the whole world… and politics at Thanksgiving dinner.” We’re ﬁ  ling a patent over that idea. 
This “anger-restraint” talk is the sort of discussion we had 
with all the new students last week. Now, in honor of all those returning to The Swamp this semester, let’s tackle a separate is-sue: complacency. 
Never allow yourself to stay too comfortable. Obviously com-
fort should be sought and cherished. Many of you this semester (and throughout life) should desire to feel comfort by participat-ing in something that brings you happiness or fulﬁ  llment or ﬁ  nd-ing bits of familiarity along your path — we encourage this.
However, there is such a thing as resting on your laurels and 
not allowing yourself to adapt to new environments, take on challenges and expand the limits of who you are.
It’s normal to fear the unknown or feel unwilling to change: In 
fact, it’s so normal that you see this sort of complacency (mostly the unwillingness to change) throughout our political system.
As Cenk Uygur of The Young Turks stated on the election, 
“It’s not an accident that under this crooked, corrupt system we have the two most unpopular candidates in American history.” The proof is in the pudding: The electoral game we watched over this long, cruel summer is all of the evidence anyone needs that complacency only brushes our problems further under the rug.
Likewise, you mustn’t allow yourself to feel complacent if you 
think there’s room for improvement. (Pro tip: Everyone is strug-gling; there’s always room for improvement.) Take some time, meditate and set clear, achievable goals for how you can treat yourself and those around you better and elevate the quality of your experience during your years here on campus.
Otherwise, you’ll look back at this time and think, “Oh, I 
should have tried that,” or, “Man, if only I had been brave enough to be honest with myself and step up.” Or maybe you’re just Mr. Perfect McPerfect-Pants and think you’ve got everything ﬁ  gured 
out — in which case, just go home. Nobody wants you here.Not in Kansas 
anymore: Alligator 
pro-tips for Fall
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith 
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
“Our aspiration is to be recognized as the very 
best in all that we do. W e are already among 
the best, and now we are determined 
to be the very best.”
Kent Fuchs
UF PresidentLetter to the Editor
The beginning of the new 
school year is an opportu-nity for all students to help 
curb the spread of the Zika 
virus by practicing good 
habits, which include using mos-quito repellent, spilling standing 
water to prevent mosquitoes from 
breeding and taking measures to reduce the chances of sexual transmission. 
In fact, as you walk around your 
campus, you may notice references 
to the “Zika Aware: Spill it, Spray 
it” campaign, meant to remind stu-
dents how to stay safe.
Florida’s 12 public universities 
are leaders in the conversation 
about Zika, conducting important research, creating task forces to 
track the virus and serving as a 
resource to the community. But as university students, you 
also have a unique opportunity to make a difference. 
Just as Governor Rick Scott 
challenged Florida’s educational institutions to be proactive in 
preventing new Zika cases, I am 
urging you, our students, to get creative and help us spread the word. 
By working together, we have 
a real opportunity to make a dif-ference.
Marshall Criser III is chancellor 
of the State University System of 
Florida.MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Hello Gator Nation,
Welcome to the 2016-
2017 academic year!
 I hope everyone had 
a great summer and is 
ready for the new semester. 
I am glad to see so many re-
turning faces and am incredibly excited to welcome the class of 2020!
It is such an amazing time to 
be a Florida Gator. 
From the completion of the 
renovated and expanded Reitz Union to the ongoing renovations of the Stephen C. O’Connell Cen-ter and Newell Hall, our campus is changing for the better — but that’s not the only change we are going through. 
As an institution, our jour-
ney to pre-eminence continues. I truly believe the class of 2020 will play an instrumental role in helping us become a top-10 pub-lic university.As the ﬁ  rst week of classes 
begins, I encourage all of you to step outside of your comfort 
zones and immerse yourselves 
in the UF community. 
With over 1,000 student or-
ganizations, UF provides oppor-tunities for every student to get 
involved and ﬁ  nd something he 
or she is truly passionate about. 
With Greek life, multicultural 
clubs, service organizations and preprofessional clubs among 
those organizations, there is 
something for every student on 
this campus. 
Four years ago, I found my niche in Student Government. I 
encourage all of you to visit the SG ofﬁ  ce and see what we have to offer. 
If you are interested in be-
coming involved with SG, appli-cations are open now.  
Make sure to follow my ad-
ministration on Facebook (UF Student Government), Twitter (@UF_SG), Snapchat (@UFstu-dentgov) and Instagram (@ufsg) to see what we’re up to through-out the year.
I am thrilled to have the op-
portunity to represent all of you and am looking forward to a suc-cessful year ahead. Good luck this semester!
As always, please feel free 
to reach out with any com-ments, questions or concerns. Go Gators!
Susan Webster is the UF Stu-
dent Body president. Her column appears monthly.Welcome from your Student Body presidentColumn
Susan Webster
opinions@alligator.orgDo your part to prevent the 
spread of the Zika virus
“By working together, we have 
a real opportunity to make a 
diference."
Marshall Criser III
State University System 8  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
Fri., Aug. 26, from 2 to 5 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR IS LOOKING TO FILL THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS:
Photo Editor, Assistant Photo Editor, Avenue Editor, 
Opinions Editor, Photographers, University Editor, 
Freelance Editor, Staff Writers, Copy Desk Chiefs, Copy Editors, Sports Writers, Sports Copy Editors, Content Contributors and Ad Designers. 
Interviews will be held on-site. Please bring your 
resume, clips and portfolio if you have them. 
THE ALLIGATOR HAS MOVED
Visit us at either location!
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th StreetCAMPUS:
Weimer G207
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
 By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Sexual assault survivors will 
have a private room for help at UF 
Health Shands Hospital by the end 
of the year.
Alachua County Commission-
ers approved the $32,000 renova-
tion this month. The room will be 
located around the corner from the 
emergency room waiting area, said Laura Kalt, the director of the Ala-chua County Victim Services and Rape Crisis Center.
“This is a game changer for 
people in our community who are victims of sexual assault,” she said.
About six sexual assault nurse 
examiners, who collect evidence of the assault and interview sur-vivors, will work in the room, she said. The nurses help them 
through the examination process, 
in which they may experience dif-ferent levels of stress or emotion.
“A lot of victims can internalize 
those normal reactions as ‘Some-thing’s wrong with me,’ instead of ‘What I’m going through is nor-
mal,’” Kalt said.
Currently, sexual assault survi-
vors can end up waiting hours in 
the emergency room with other patients. They’re seen by which-
ever doctor or nurse is available. 
About 150 survivors came to 
the emergency room in 2015, Kalt 
said.
With the private room, she 
hopes more survivors will seek medical treatment.
Angelique Stout, a 34-year-old 
sexual assault survivor treated at 
Shands, agreed.
On July 3, 2011, Stout was 
waiting for the bus outside the 
Copper Monkey on West Univer-
sity Avenue when a man offered to 
give her a ride home. Instead he took her to a then-abandoned lot behind Butler Plaza before assault-ing her.
She managed to escape and 
roamed the woods for three hours before the police found her and brought her to the emergency room.
Covered in bruises and with 
almost no clothes on, Stout sat in the waiting room for about 15 minutes. A hospital intern saw her and demanded she be brought to a room for trauma patients.
“I never forgot that. That just 
makes me so emotional,” Stout said, her voice breaking. She said she wished she could have used 
the private room, adding that be-
ing alone to process would’ve helped the healing begin.
“It was almost sacred,” she said 
of the time alone in the trauma pa-
tient room.
While she is healing, Stout  said 
she is ecstatic that Shands will 
have a private room and future 
survivors will have the opportu-
nity to be alone in a safe environ-ment.
“I just think it is one of the most 
beneﬁ  cial things they could offer,” 
she said. “Better late than never.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org Shands to open room for assault survivors
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
As the Zika virus has come to 
South Florida, UF is taking precau-
tions and educating students through a new website. 
UF recently launched zika.uﬂ  .
edu, which includes prevention tips and resources students can use. The virus, though spread mainly by mos-quito bites, can also be passed sexu-
ally. 
“There really isn’t a treatment, 
and there’s no vaccine at this point,” 
said Dr. Guy Nicolette, the director of the UF Student Health Care Center.
The Zika virus can cause birth 
defects to a fetus, such as microceph-aly, in which babies are born with 
smaller heads due to abnormal brain 
development. Others infected by the virus may only experience mild ﬂ  u-like symptoms. 
UF is working to remove stand-
ing water around housing complexes and other facilities, according to a UF email. 
The school is also taking inven-
tory of all other standing bodies of 
water around campus to determine 
the amount of larvicide needed to kill larvae.
Students are advised to wear in-
sect repellent, repair holes in screens and throw away containers holding water to reduce the potential number of mosquitoes near them. 
Casey Parker, a UF entomology 
and nematology doctoral student, won a contest last year for developing a black pyramid-shaped device that attracts mosquitoes laying eggs. The 
device, laced with pesticides, keeps 
more mosquitoes from hatching.
Zika-carrying mosquitoes like to 
be in containers, she said.
“They’re highly specialized to 
be in urbanized environments, in a neighborhood or something like 
that,” the 24-year-old said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org UF educates students 
about the Zika virusMONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Guangran Deng dreams of travel-
ing all across the U.S. 
He completed part of that goal 
Sunday when he was ofﬁ  cially wel-
comed along with more than 400 
new students from China. 
“UF is like my hometown in the 
south of China,” the 23-year-old UF 
geography graduate student said. 
The Chinese Student Association 
hosted the event at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Tables lining the room were packed with students seated based on their majors, with 
seven new students and one return-
ing student at each table, said Yong Shen, who helped organize the event. 
With tables full of new students 
lining the ballroom, organizations promoting services, clubs or infor-mation spilled into the hallway. 
Deng, who sat with other stu-
dents in the ballroom, said he plans on earning his Ph.D. at UF. He said he came to the U.S. in July, and since then, he said he’s visited Orlando and many of the natural springs around Gainesville. 
Shen said it takes the new stu-
dents time to adjust because the cul-tures are vastly different.
“We put them together so they 
can learn from each other,” he said.
During the event, students lis-
tened to representatives from Stu-dent Government, University Police, the UF International Center and UF Volunteers for International Student 
Affairs. 
“Our role here is to help Chinese 
students to ﬁ  t into the college cul-
ture,” Shen said. 
Shuyan Ding, a member of the 
Chinese Student Association, sat at a table, introducing students to ser-vices offered by the organization.
“We want Chinese students to 
create community, and we do that by providing information about ac-tivities in Gainesville,” the 23-year-old UF electronic and computer engi-neering graduate student said. 
Some of those services include 
language-building activities, sched-uled events on campus or even trips to the mall, Ding said.  
Because students are coming 
from China, a lot of them don’t have a way to get groceries or necessities, she said. The organization helps bridge that gap by having members carpool the new students to places. 
Ding, who has just completed her 
ﬁ  rst year at UF, said she got involved with the organization quickly, which 
gave her a feeling of belonging at the 
university. 
She said the organization tries to 
get as many of the new students in-volved on campus, but it can be hard to reach them all.
“Of course we cannot get in touch 
with all of them, but if they are will-ing, then we try to connect with 
them,” Ding said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org   Chinese organization welcomes 400 students at Reitz
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
Shuyan Ding, right, a 23-year-old electrical engineering graduate student, teaches an incoming 
freshman about an English translation application. Ding volunteers with the Chinese Student Association. 
10  ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Bo Diddley Community Plaza in 
downtown Gainesville turned into 
a community zumba class Saturday night.
Children, adults and dogs gath-
ered on the plaza’s grass and fol-lowed the instructions of a micro-phoned instructor, hands stretched above heads and hips shaking. The class was part of “Night of 
Dance,” the ﬁ  rst event of its kind hosted by UF HealthStreet, an orga-nization that works to inform peo-ple about health care and research. About 350 people attended, taking part in the class and visiting food 
trucks and health-related vendors 
that offered free massages, grass ten-nis and other activities.
The event’s purpose was to in-
form the Gainesville community about HealthStreet and the organi-
zations around the city that it pro-
motes, said Vicki Piazza, the Health-Street director of operations. While this was the ﬁ  rst time the event was held in the organization’s three-year history, staff plan on hosting it again next year.
“It was such a wonderful oppor-
tunity for the community,” Piazza 
said. “They came together to dance 
and to learn about health screen-ings and health education. It was an amazing event.” 
Piazza said the event was in-spired by a “Day of Dance” attended 
by HealthStreet founder Dr. Linda 
Cottler in St. Louis. 
“We modiﬁ  ed it a little bit and 
brought it here as a way to bring awareness about HealthStreet to our community,” Piazza said. “I think we accomplished that.”
Barbara Beck, who was volunteer-
ing at the event with local nonproﬁ  t 
Hands On Gainesville, said the event 
was a chance for the organization to teach more people about science. 
“Here (kids) can learn about ener-
gy conversion and how much it takes to light a bulb while they pedal,” 
Beck said. “Science and technology 
is something we can be part of.”
While some participated in both 
the class and the event activities, Ma-dine Rawe and her yellow labrador, Davy Crockett, were content to just watch. Rawe, a frequent UF Health Shands Hospital volunteer, said events like this one are important to 
the city. 
“It’s what makes us a commu-
nity,” Rawe said. 
 
@mollyidonovan 
mdonovan@alligator.org Downtown dance party promotes UF health organization
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Undocumented students are now eligible 
for Florida in-state tuition. 
UF Chispas, a student organization, worked 
with UF to offer undocumented students waiv-
ers that would make attending the university 
possible, said Mariana Castro, the organiza-
tion’s president. 
To qualify for in-state tuition, undocument-
ed students must complete three consecutive years immediately before graduating from a Florida high school and enroll in higher educa-tion within 24 months of graduation, according the Ofﬁ  ce of Student Financial Affairs’ website.
Before the waiver, UF students couldn’t re-
ceive in-state tuition despite how long they’ve lived in Florida, Castro said. 
“It used to make it nearly impossible for 
someone who was undocumented to go to UF or other state universities or schools,” the 20-year-old neurobiological science junior said.She also said they can’t receive ﬁ  nancial aid 
or the Florida Bright Futures Scholarship. 
“UF could still do a lot more,” Castro said. 
Giancarlo Tejeda, 19, said the people in UF 
Chispas have helped him navigate through 
completing his waiver to earn in-state tuition. 
Tejeda immigrated from Colombia to Miami 
when he was 3 years old. 
The UF biomedical engineering sophomore 
said the new waiver has cut his school fees in half. 
“It makes college go from being out-of-
reach for almost all of us to still difﬁ  cult, but very much doable,” he said.
He said without the waiver he would most 
likely be in community college and even strug-gling to pay for that. 
“This waiver made going to college here at 
UF possible,” he said. 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org UF group helps with tuition waivers  
By Sara Marino
Contributing Writer
On Saturday First Magnitude Brewing 
Company celebrated its second anniversary — with a 12-hour birthday party.
Several local bands and specialty beers 
greeted the crowd, which at times grew to 400 
people in size.
For Meg The Losen, her husband Wells 
and their two close friends, who started the 
brewery two years ago, the party was long overdue and well deserved.
Since the brewery ﬁ  rst opened its doors, 
the company has doubled its staff, expanded its distribution reach and increased its produc-tion, she said.
“We are really grateful to the community,” 
she said.
Lane Abraben, the event and project co-
ordinator at the brewery, said the company started out as a 15-barrel brewery, but it has since expanded to 250 barrels.Two weeks after the brewery opened, it 
began selling its beer in Gainesville. Within two months, it added distributors in St. Au-gustine, Tallahassee, Ocala and The Villages to its list of customers, she said. This May, it began reaching Orlando.
Plans for the future of the brewery include 
the possibility of a second location, as well as bottled beers by the company and further dis-tribution of the beers to other cities in Florida. 
According to The Losen, she believes the 
brewery has done so well because of, well, the beer.
“I think and hope that it’s the quality of the 
beer,” she said. “We also have a great team of brewers that are obsessed with quality.” 
Tina Nguyen, 26, a third-year UF pharma-
cy graduate student, said she was excited to go the party. Two years ago she went to its grand opening.
“We start classes on Monday so it’s a way 
to hang out and have some fun before classes start,” Nguyen said. Local brewery hosts ann iversaryAbout 350 people attendedMONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
The following is a paid advertisement
Envision This, Alachua!
TIME, MONEY AND SCIENCE  
 Curing Florida’s algae crisis
By Terry Spencer
The Associated Press
STUART — The enormous algae outbreak that has coated swaths of Florida’s St. Lucie River with 
guacamole-like sludge is a man-made aﬄ   iction, arising from political and economic decisions made over 
the past 140 years.
Chasing dollars, Florida land developers and their government allies broke up Chasing dollars, Florida land 
developers and their government allies broke up nature’s ﬂ  ow that used rivers, Lake Okeechobee and the 
Everglades to move water south from Central Florida to the Florida Bay at the peninsula’s tip. That spurred Florida’s economic growth, but it came with a price: rivers and lagoons have periodically become so toxic  
with green and brown slime that ﬁ  sh die oﬀ  , residents are sickened and tourists stay away.
Don’t let this happen to Here!
Don’t let the Slick Carpet-Baggers Proﬁ  t, at our Loss. 
Don’t let them Make a Mess of North Florida, too.
Don’t let them Hoodwink well-meaning Citizens
with False Promises of Jobs. Job. Jobs.
It’s all about Proﬁ  ts! And it will Cost us Millions$
VOTE AUGUST 30th 12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 
Two people arrested 
with nearly 80 grams of meth oil inside their car, deputies say
Two people were arrested 
Wednesday after police said they 
were in possession of nearly 80 grams of methamphetamine oil and meth-making materials.
Stacy Blackwelder, of 
Palatka, and Kenneth Keene, of Satsuma, sat in the car at Earl P. Powers Park in the 5900 block of Hawthorne Road after park hours, according to a police report, when two Alachua County Sheriff’s deputies on patrol approached the car.
Inside the car, deputies found 
multiple syringes and what appeared to be two grams of powdered meth inside, according to a statement issued by the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce.
When one person in the car 
told deputies there was an active one-pot meth cook in a toolbox in the car, the Gainesville-Alachua 
County Drug Task Force’s 
Clandestine Lab Response Team was called to the scene, according to the statement.
The team found an active one-
pot meth cook, two hydrogen chloride gas generators, chemicals to make meth and 78.8 grams of meth oil, according to 
the statement.
Both Blackwelder and Keene 
were taken to the Alachua County 
Jail. Blackwelder was charged with possession of a controlled substance and drug equipment. She is currently being held in lieu of a $20,000 bail.
Keene was charged with 
trafﬁ  cking in amphetamine, possessing drug equipment, possessing methamphetamine with intent to sell and possessing a controlled substance. He is currently being held in lieu of a $275,000 bond.
This incident was the latest in 
a growing number of meth cases ASO has seen, said Lt. Brandon Kutner, a spokesman for the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce.
In 2015, there were about 30 
meth-related cases, he said. This year, they’re on track for the same number, if not more.
“Unfortunately, it’s becoming 
too commonplace for us,” Kutner said. “We’ve seen a dramatic increase in the amount of meth over the past ﬁ  ve years.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org
-Caitlin Ostroff
One dead, four 
seriously injured in Gainesville crash
An Alachua man died and two 
infants were seriously injured Friday night in a two-car crash in Gainesville.
Minutes before midnight, 
Chase Pinner, 18, of Middleburg, Florida, drove his 2002 Nissan pickup south on County Road 1475 toward the intersection of County Road 225 when he collided with a westbound vehicle, according to a Florida Highway Patrol report. The front of Pinner’s truck 
smashed into the right portion of a 2015 Hyundai Sonata. Both cars came to a stop in the southwest corner of the intersection, according to the report.
Christopher Thomashunis, 
30, of Alachua, was a passenger in the Sonata and died of his injuries at the scene, according to the report.
Chandler Thomashunis and 
Canden Thomashunis, both 1 year old, sat in the back seat of the Sonata during the crash and sustained serious injuries, according to the report.
They were taken to UF Health Shands Hospital’s Pediatric Emergency Room, according to the report.
Luisa Adams, 31, of Alachua, 
drove the Sonata during the crash. Both she and Pinner were seriously injured, according to the report.
Both drivers were taken 
to Shands’ Emergency Room, according to the report. No charges have been made, pending an investigation. 
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org
-Caitlin Ostroff
Man arrested after threatening to arrest 11-year-old boy
A Gainesville man was 
arrested Thursday after police 
said he threatened to arrest an 
11-year-old boy with autism last 
month.
At about 2 p.m. on July 29, 
John Mobley, 32, saw the young 
boy driving a go-cart in the street 
when he instructed him to go home, according to the report.
Mobley was wearing a police 
badge on a black polo shirt, tan tactical-style pants, black boots and a police-style belt holding a handgun and a pair of handcuffs, according to the report.
After sending the boy 
home, Mobley went up to his home and spoke with the boy’s mother, father and 
grandmother, identifying himself 
as a Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cer, according to the report.
At one point, Mobley allegedly 
pulled out his handcuffs and 
threatened to arrest the 11-year-
old because he wasn’t paying attention while driving his go-cart, according to the report. Mobley denied any knowledge 
of the incident but was later identiﬁ  ed using a Department of Justice photo, according to the 
report.
He was charged with 
impersonating a law enforcement 
ofﬁ  cer and possessing a weapon 
as a convicted felon. Authorities 
took him to the Alachua County Jail, where he remains on a $65,000 bail.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org
-Caitlin Ostroff
MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
䴀愀欀攀 礀漀甀爀 洀漀渀攀礀 氀椀昀攀 攀愀猀椀攀爀 琀栀爀漀甀最栀 䘀䌀唀℀ 圀 攀ᤠ瘀攀 最漀琀 
挀漀渀瘀攀渀椀攀渀琀 瀀爀漀搀甀挀琀猀 氀椀欀 攀 吀漀琀愀氀氀礀 䘀爀攀攀 䌀栀攀挀欀椀渀最 
⠀渀漀 昀攀攀猀℀⤀ ☀ 攀䌀爀攀搀椀琀 琀栀愀琀 愀爀攀 攀愀猀礀 琀漀 愀挀挀攀猀猀 愀渀搀 
洀愀渀愀最攀 漀渀氀椀渀攀 ⸀ 倀氀甀猀Ⰰ 礀漀甀 挀愀渀 琀愀欀 攀 礀漀甀爀 愀挀挀漀甀渀琀 眀椀琀栀 
礀漀甀 愀昀琀攀爀 挀漀氀氀攀最攀 愀渀搀 欀 攀攀瀀 礀漀甀爀 ǻ渀愀渀挀攀猀 爀甀渀渀椀渀最 
猀洀漀漀琀栀氀礀 Ⰰ 渀漀 洀愀琀琀攀爀 眀栀攀爀攀 礀漀甀 最漀 ⸀
嘀椀猀椀琀 甀猀 
嘀椀猀椀琀 甀猀 漀渀氀椀渀攀 漀爀 椀渀 礀漀甀爀 氀漀挀愀氀 戀爀愀渀挀栀 琀漀 ǻ渀搀 漀甀琀 栀漀眀 
䘀氀漀爀椀搀愀 䌀爀攀搀椀琀 唀渀椀漀渀 挀愀渀 栀攀氀瀀 礀漀甀℀ 
䬀攀攀瀀椀渀最 甀瀀 眀椀琀栀 礀漀甀
愀渀搀 礀漀甀爀 ǻ渀愀渀挀攀猀⸀ 
㌀ 䜀愀椀渀攀猀瘀椀氀氀攀 䈀爀愀渀挀栀攀猀     
䘀攀搀攀爀愀氀氀礀 椀渀猀甀爀攀搀 戀礀 琀栀攀 一䌀唀 䄀⸀ 
By Catherine Dickson 
Alligator Staff Writer 
A comedian from MTV’s “Guy 
Code” is coming to UF this Friday.
Reitz Union 
Board Entertain-
ment, along with 
GatorNights, is 
hosting Andrew 
Schulz in the Reitz Union Grand Ball-
room on Friday at 
10 p.m.
RUB Entertain-
ment president Kaitlin Milligan said the event is free for students with their Gator 1 Cards. Doors will open 30 minutes before the show starts. 
“We chose Andrew Schulz be-
cause he’s a young comedian and his comedy is really relatable,” she said. 
Schulz is being paid $7,500 to 
perform a stand-up comedy act, the 21-year-old telecommunication senior said. GatorNights and RUB Entertain-ment are splitting the cost for the en-tertainer, Milligan said.
Schulz, a New York native, will be 
touring the U.S. after his UF appear-ance. 
Milligan said even though it costs 
money to bring the comedian in, all RUB Entertainment events are free.
Milligan said the crowds are usu-
ally around 300 to 400 people, but she hopes the show has a good turnout. The ballroom holds up to 900 people, she said.
Kianna Brown, 20, said she saw 
Schulz was coming to UF on Face-book. 
“When I heard he was coming I got 
really excited,” the UF public relations junior said. “He’s really funny.”
RUB Entertainment often puts on 
really good shows, Brown said, add-ing that she thinks they always try to bring out relevant entertainers.
“They really look at what people 
want and what people are familiar with,” she said. 
Brown said she will definitely be 
arriving early to see the comedian. 
She said Schulz is like other come-
dians who are better known for their appearances on TV rather than their stand-up. 
“I think he’s going to put out a 
good show regardless of how many people are there,” she said.
@ced0624 
cdickson@alligator.org ‘Guy Code’ comedian 
to perform at UF
Schulz has been featured on: 
• “Guy Code”
• “Girl Code”
• “The Week in Jams”
• “Charlamagne and Friends”
• “Big Morning Buzz”Schulz
STATE
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A Florida judge sided with col-
lege students in a lawsuit between 
a public university and a student newspaper earlier this month.
After listening to attorneys 
from the University of Central Florida and Knight News, Inc., circuit judge John E. Jordan or-dered the university to hand over UCF Student Government As-
sociation files with the names of 
members who spent the school’s 
Activity and Service budget. 
Justin Hemlepp, an attorney 
for the non-profit student news-
paper in Orlando and UF alum-
nus, said the judge’s decision was 
a victory for the students. It was the third lawsuit between the stu-dent paper and UCF. 
“This order is about the re-
cords,” he said. “It was exactly what we’ve been arguing for three years now. Student government records aren’t education records, 
because they’re not maintained 
by the university.”
Chad Binette, the assistant vice 
president of UCF News and Infor-
mation, wrote in an email that UCF, while disappointed with the ruling, is evaluating options.
“Our goal has always been to 
comply with both public records laws and federal laws protecting the privacy of student informa-tion,” he said.
The trial began in May after 
the student paper requested to see their student government’s bud-get, but after a month passed with no response from the university, the paper sued, Hemlepp said.
UCF eventually handed over 
the documents, in which they redacted the names of students who allocated, oversaw and spent money.  
Attorneys for UCF argued the 
names of students were redacted because the university could lose funding from the Department of Education for violating the Fam-
ily Educational Rights and Privacy 
Act, which gives money to pub-
lic institutions for protecting stu-dents’ educational records. 
“Because if we don’t, under 
FERPA, the university can lose 
its eligibility for federal funding,” 
said Richard Mitchell, an attorney for UCF. “This is a big deal, and we take it seriously.”Student Press Law Center Ex-
ecutive Director Frank LoMonte 
said that argument was false.
“That’s a total nonsense argu-
ment,” he said. “They know they 
can’t lose federal money because no school in the 43-year history of 
FERPA has ever lost their fund-
ing, and they know that other 
colleges around the country have produced student government documents.”
After the judge’s order, UCF 
asked Jordan for a rehearing, 
which he denied. 
LoMonte, who has been fol-
lowing the case since it started, 
said UCF’s treatment toward 
Knight News, Inc. is like nothing 
he’s ever seen.
“I’ve never seen a university 
go after its own students with this 
level of voracity, where they’re 
literally trying to bankrupt their 
own students,” he said. “I’ve just 
never seen a university go out of its way to try and inflict harm on its own students the way that UCF 
is. And you really have to wonder 
who’s calling the shots there.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.orgFlorida judge upholds right to 
UCF student-government records14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
FOOTBALL, FRESHMEN AND FUN
Zachariah Chou / Alligator Staff 
UF President Kent Fuchs Gator Chomps during his UF convocation 
address to the class of 2020 on Friday.
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Erica Winstead, right, a 21-year-old microbiology senior, receives help from her family as she moves into her 
new room in the Keys Residential Complex.
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
Kayia Wagoner runs 
through an obstacle course 
with one of UF’s Dazzlers 
during Gators Football 
Fan Day on Saturday. The 
obstacle course included 
running around cones, 
jumping over barriers and 
racing an opponent.
A WARMWELCOME
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Freshman Hannah Hoffmann, left, screams for a shirt while Ashley Foster and Bailey Pittman look on during Rally in the Swamp on Sunday evening. Gator athletes threw shirts to members of the audience.MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Free Delivery Offered for UF Area
NOW
NOWOPEN
ORDERFREE
Delivery
3amUntil
• Burgers
• Panini• Pulled Pork   Sandwiches• Donuts• Homemade Cookies• Brownies• And Much More• Dine-in / Take-out
Download our mobile
app for easy ordering
( )Gatorbaked.com
352-792-6505
12 SW 2nd Street
Located behind Cowboys
Hours: 3 pm - 3amFree Delivery Offered for UF Area
Reduce your showertime by 2 min.TICK.TOCK.
Preserve water
AUGUSTUS INVICTUS IS 
FLORIDA’S LIBERTARIAN 
CANDIDATE.
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Five people sat in Main Street Bar & 
Billiards Thursday to listen to Augustus 
Invictus, Florida’s Libertarian candidate 
for U.S. Senate, impersonate former pres-
ident Richard Nixon.
The point of the impression, Invictus 
said after he imitated Nixon’s voice at 
the small rally, was to show how little 
has changed in America since the former president’s candidacy.
“We will not resign ourselves to our 
customary third-party irrelevance,” he 
said. “We are going to fight because with 
us at the helm, the Libertarian Party has the leadership, the platform and the pur-pose that America needs.”
The 33-year-old, perhaps most notori-ous for saying he once sacrificed a goat and drank its blood during a pilgrimage, has in the past called for a second civ-
il war to combat federal overreach and 
bring power back to the states.
“We’ve had enough of big promises 
and little action,” Invictus said during 
the rally. “The time has come for hon-
est government in the United States of America, and so tonight I do not promise a new millennium in the morning — the new millennium is already here, and it 
is up to us to take action and make the 
most of it.”
Joté Thompson, a member of the Lib-
ertarian Party of Florida who attended 
the speech, said he decided to endorse In-
victus for the upcoming election on Nov. 8 because of his straightforward style of politics.
“I think he deserves to win the elec-
tion,” Thompson said. “He is the under-dog, but I feel he has a real shot — he is the most honest candidate.” Five people attend rally 
for US Senate candidate 
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Democratic Party 
held a grand opening Thursday for its 
second headquarters, located at 4056 W. 
Newberry Road.
The organization, which also works 
out of an office at 901 NW Eighth Ave., 
opened the second office in order to ac-
commodate and organize more volunteers 
for the local branch. Staff and volunteers coordinate outreach programs, like phone banking and canvassing, to mobilize vot-ers ahead of local and national elections.
At the ceremony, a speaker from the 
group and the Florida College Democrats discussed the presidential election and lo-cal politics, emphasizing the importance 
of volunteers spending time urging mem-
bers of the community to vote Democrat.
To help ensure voters elect Democrats onto the ballot, the Florida College Demo-crats will be organizing voter registration drives on university campuses across the 
state, said Chris Reilly, a 21-year-old UF 
political science senior and the president of the group.
Kelly Zimmerman, the field organizer 
with the Alachua Democratic Party, said it’s vital for residents to volunteer, even if they can’t physically knock on doors. For those who are unable to sit at a phone or canvass in person, they can help feed oth-
er volunteers through the group’s Meal 
Train program.
“When we stay silent, when we don’t 
knock on doors, when we don’t talk to 
voters — that’s how people like Donald 
Trump get elected,” she said. 
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org County’s Democratic Party 
opens new headquartersLOCAL Augustus In-victus, Florida’s candidate for US Senate, holds ﬁ  ve-person rally16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
***Pricing and availability vary by state. Pricing subject to change without notice. Tax 
estimated. Based on 14 day payment option. Leases are subject to approval. The precise payment amount will be disclosed in the Customer Lease Agreement. $15***
lease it with payments as low as Kenmore 32" Class LED 720p 
HDTV retail $199.99
Kenmore 1.1 cu. ft. Microwave retail $119.99 
$12***lease it with 
payments 
as low as 
$23***lease it with 
payments as 
low as Kenmore 2 Burner Patio 
Grill retail $135.00TAKE IT
TODAYHOME  
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK
   facebook.com/gatorfurniture
MAIN SHOP ·  (352) 575-3542
230 NE 16th Ave, Gainesville 32601
WAREHOUSE · (352) 359-9950
1950 NE 27th Ave, Gainesville 32609
· · · · · lizettelupi@gmail.com · · · · · UNCLAIMED
FURNITURE
Kelsey Bona / Alligator Staff
BANDING TOGETHER
The UF Fightin’ Gator Marching Band practices for the upcoming season on Norman Field on Thursday evening. They will perform at the ﬁ  rst home football game Sept. 3 against Massachusetts. 
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
In an effort to help low-income 
teens and adults in Alachua Coun-ty, Gainesville Police this month announced plans to partner with a city youth program to operate an educational center near GPD Headquarters.
The recently renamed Banks-Cosby Youth Empowerment Cen-ter, located at 635 NW Sixth St., will house GPD’s Brave Overt 
Leaders of Distinction program 
and the Gainesville-based Project 
Youthbuild, both of which teach 
life skills to underserved members of the community ages 16 to 24.
At a groundbreaking held Aug. 
11, Youthbuild graduate Carly 
Pace said she owes a lot to the program, which helped her earn a 
job for the city and at Bo Diddley  Community Plaza.
“I wouldn’t have been able to 
do that without the program,” she 
said.
Both programs provide life-
skills training to low-income 
youth, some of whom may not 
have graduated from high school.
GPD and the Institute of Work-force Innovation, which created Project Youthbuild, will both set aside $120,000 to renovate the 
building, which is currently va-
cant.
The building is slated to be 
complete by 2017, said GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
At a groundbreaking for 
the new center held Aug. 11, 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe and U.S. Representative Keith Perry 
both said it was important to de-velop strong community relations 
and help underserved popula-
tions.
“We approach this project like 
a family,” Poe said. “And the pro-gram welcomes every individual 
in as a family member.”
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org  GPD, local nonproﬁ  t agency partner for city youth center
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Board 
of Commissioners voted 
4-1 Tuesday to approve a $73.6-million-dollar budget for 
the county’s Sheriff’s Office 
for 2017, but the board raised concerns about Sheriff Sadie Darnell’s unapproved expenses.
The budget included 
$1.4 million for vehicle maintenance, and arguments over increases in maintenance 
funds have been ongoing since 
2008, said ACSO Fleet Manager Steve King.
In 2014, Darnell requested 
$500,000 for this purpose and used it for deputy raises, the board alleged.
In that same year, 
commissioners said $1 million in unspent jail money was used in other areas, rather than going back to the board for the following fiscal year.
Once the money is transferred 
to her, Darnell argued, it’s hers to do with as she sees fit. She said her office spent $400,000 
of the leftover jail money on 
debt for jail radios that year, 
and the rest went to vehicle maintenance.
“It’s my money at the point 
you give it to me,” she said. 
“It’s like giving a birthday gift, 
you can’t take it back.”
Where Darnell spent the 
money isn’t the issue, County 
Attorney Michele Lieberman said. The issue is whether Darnell has the authority to use funds for purposes not explicitly approved by the council.
Both parties agreed to further 
discuss the matter after the 
sheriff brings it up at a Florida 
Sheriff’s Association summit 
in September, but Darnell 
said the commissioners were overstepping their authority by nitpicking her spending habits.
“Don’t take this to circuit 
court,” Darnell said. “That’d be embarrassing for you.”
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org Commission questions 
ASO budget, spending
By Jessica Rodriguez 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
To ease parents’ concerns, the 
Gainesville Gators Pee Wee tackle 
football team will use new trauma-monitoring helmets this season.
The team will use the bluetooth-
enabled Riddell InSite helmets Sept. 3, during its ﬁ  rst game in the Gainesville Pop Warner League. The helmets give coaches real-time up-dates on their 16 players, who are ages 9 to 12.
“It gives us another set of eyes, 
so if a hard hit does happen, it alerts us through the bluetooth monitor system, ” said Jason Wozniak, the team’s head coach and a former UF 
football player.
After one player suffered a con-
cussion last season, Wozniak and 
the parents of some players asked Riddell to provide the new helmets.
“Last year, we only had one con-
cussion which was one more than we wanted,” he said.
The team has implemented new 
tackling techniques and strong con-cussion protocol, but some hits are harder to see than others, Wozniak said, when players collide.
This impact can cause a wide spectrum of symptoms,  skull frac-tures, bleeding in the brain, con-cussions and sub-concussions, said 
James Clugston, the director of UF’s 
Sports Concussion Center.
 “In the past we didn’t pay much 
attention to it,” Clugston said, add-ing that new helmets should im-prove the tackling techniques of the players and thus prevent injury.
Since the helmets were delivered, 
the players’ parents have been re-
ceptive to the updated technology, 
relieved their kids now have an extra layer of protection, Wozniak said.
“We’re trying to make football 
safer for the youth,” he said.  Local youth team gets trauma helmetsBut it was approved 4-1MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17
 A special message to all new Gators:
Together, more than 25,000 faculty & staﬀ, 
52,000 fellow students and 400,000 alumni 
worldwide welcome you.
So congratulations, and enjoy your ﬁrst steps on campus 
as a Gator. This is a place where you’ll always belong.
You’ve earned the right to call UF home.
18   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
Editor’s note: A version of this article 
originally appeared in the July 19 edition of the Alligator. 
By Natalie Calvo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Soon, the days of students taking 
the bus to Archer Road to pick up toi-
let paper and groceries will be gone. 
Target announced it will open a 
new store next to UF’s campus next 
July, according to the company’s web-
site.
For Ivy Santos, a UF art education 
freshman, the store will be within walking distance of where she lives at Buckman Hall. 
“I love Target,” the 17-year-old 
said. “It’s a long trip on the bus to Ar-cher, and you have to worry about get-ting to the fridge fast enough so that your food won’t melt.”
The store will be across the street 
from Heavener Hall at The Standard, a new development that will also house Chick-ﬁ  l-A and Bento Cafe locations.
“The businesses forming within 
The Standard will bring us closer to our goal of 3,500 new jobs, $218 mil-lion in new salaries and $250 million in capital investment to Gainesville by 2020,” said Alyssa Brown, the direc-tor of communications and marketing for the Gainesville Chamber of Com-merce.
The Target location will be 23,459 
square feet, compared to typical Target stores at 130,000 square feet. This is part of Target’s new “ﬂ  exible-format” 
stores, designed for spaces in college 
campuses and densely populated ar-eas, Target spokeswoman Kristy Welk-er wrote in an email.
The store is projected to include a 
Starbucks and a CVS Pharmacy four blocks from the CVS at Social 28, which does not include a pharmacy.  Target, Chick-ﬁ  l-A to open location next to UF campus
OTHER CHANGES COMING TO 
UNIVERSITY AVENUE:
• Innovation Square, owned by UF, sold its 
property to build new ofﬁ  ce buildings, hotels and housing. 
• The Uniﬁ  ed Training Center, Addiction T attoos and the houses behind the buildings will undergo construction by the end of 2016. 
• The Jam, located in the same block as Addiction T attoos, will undergo construction and will ofﬁ  cially close in May.MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19
Meet the Editors
David Hoffman is a 
20-year-old UF history and economics junior. He enjoys long romantic walks on the beach by his 
homestead and curling up next to a warm fireplace with a nice big book while sipping earl grey tea — just kidding. He doesn’t enjoy any of those things — well, he’s impartial. The beach is nice, though, and reading is cool. David sees the opinions section of the paper as a platform for members 
in the community to engage with 
one another about the goings-on of Gainesville and the world. David firmly believes in getting money out of politics, holding politicians accountable on their record and dedication to the American people and making sure the media prioritizes informing the public on 
real issues over sensationalism. 
Aside from all that, David loves the Red Hot Chili Peppers, The Mars Volta, Fugazi, Motown, George Carlin, Bill Burr, Dave Chappelle, “Parks and Recreation,” coffee, cookies, his parents, his brother, his family, his friends: The list is endless. Oh, also, David’s addicted 
to “The Daily Show” and Stephen 
Colbert. #StewartColbert2020. Hit him up at dhoffman@alligator.org.Emily Cochrane is a 20-year-old journalism senior and the editor-in-chief at the Alligator this Fall. After four semesters working at the 
Alligator as a writer, photographer and editor, she will now be the person who makes the tough calls, answers all questions and orders emergency pizza and coffee for the whole newsroom. Having spent a summer writing non-stop about everything from the Zika virus to “Pokemon Go” as an intern 
at The Miami Herald, Emily is 
now excited to keep learning and growing as a writer and journalist with her friends and peers at the Alligator. When she’s not in the newsroom, she can be found with a cup of coffee watching a Disney movie or listening to the “Hamilton” soundtrack yet 
again. While she wouldn’t say 
no to another year of schooling if her Hogwarts letter finally comes in the mail, she hopes to spend her post-graduation life writing narrative features and exploring the world for stories. If you have a story idea, extreme emotions or a spare panda picture, follow her on 
Twitter @ESCochrane or email her 
at ecochrane@alligator.org. 
Managing Print EditorMelissa Smith is a 
21-year-old journalism and sustainability 
studies senior and 
the Alligator’s Fall 
2016 managing print editor. The Orlando native worked on copy 
desk for the past three semesters, 
during which she saved readers’ eyes from the horrors of countless AP Style and grammatical errors (You can thank her with a beer 
at Swamp Head, if you so desire). 
She loves to be outdoors and to scuba dive, and she held an internship this summer with 
Scuba Diving and Sport Diver 
magazines. When she’s not at the Alligator office, you may see Melissa at a local spring hugging turtles — I mean, doing turtle 
research — or hanging out at 
Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park. If you want to discuss Florida state parks (she’s been 
to 52 of them), gush about how 
much better the window seat of an airplane is or if you’re looking for a dive buddy, you can reach her at msmith@alligator.org or 
on Twitter at @smithmelissa1.
Aaron Albright is a 
21-year-old journalism senior and the online 
managing editor of 
the Alligator this Fall. 
He started at the Alligator as a photographer and served as 
the photo editor last Spring. 
This Summer, he was also the online managing editor. He’s passionate about all things digital. When he’s not obsessing 
over making sure the website 
works, he’s out skateboarding. He spends more time than he should playing video games, 
and when he’s not, he’s learning 
new programming languages and building web apps. Aaron strives to be a jack-of-all-trades as a writer, photographer and 
programmer. He’s got his pulse 
on all the latest and greatest technologies and is excited to see digital journalism move 
forward to enrich the art of 
storytelling and informing the public. If you share his disdain for writing in the third-person, send him an email at aalbright@
alligator.org or follow his lit 
Twitter at @tallbrighty.
Editor-In-Chief
Managing Online Editor Opinions Editor@ESCochrane
ecochrane@alligator.org@smithmelissa1
msmith@alligator.org
dhoffman@alligator.org@tallbrighty
aalbright@alligator.orgAaron Albright David HoffmanEmily Cochrane Melissa SmithMONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.
Available 8/1/16. $1,100. or $275 per  bedroom 
Call / text 239-370-8735    8-22-16-21-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. 1 avail. Immed. & 1 avail. 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   8-23-16-17-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Joshua 407-342-0617 / Charlie 407-810-3489     8-22-16-15-1
Furnished 2BR/2BA in 4BR/4BA Countryside condo. Rent $400/rm/mo with 1st month FREE in year lease. Utilities, basic cable, and internet included. E-mail: countryside -
apt@gmail.com     8-23-16-5-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
3BR/2BA, MANY AMENITIES. $800/moSPARROW CONDOS. 15 min to UF by bus.Call 850-974-0686      8-25-16-5-22BR/1BA in NW. Available 9/1/16. Comes with W/D. New kitchen, bath, wood floors. Large backyard. $675/mo. Please leave message 352-371-3473     8-31-16-9-2
2/1 Brandywine $650/mo + $650 dep. Hi spd internet & water incl. <1mi to UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopping. On bus route. Avail Aug 15. Text 352.284.2654 or jrfong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-2
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $500/
BR or $1800/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    
8-31-16-8-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE AUG 15 - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    8-22-16-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-52 Bd/1Ba Brandywine Condo $52,000. Newly renovated, on 1st floor, bus routes. Pool & clubhouse. Near UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopps. Text 352.284.2654 or jr-fong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-5
Cabin Life in the Country: easy commute up 441 (Citra). 3BR/2.5BA, Modern 2-story, 2000+ sq ft log home, custom interior wood -
work. climate-controlled shop/garage/barn on 3+ acres w/ 2 carports & detached garage for cars-trucks-tractors-boats-toys. $245K Appt 352-317-8870.     8-23-16-3-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress SaleNew - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedMONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   21 
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-1297 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-22-16-5-12
SUZUKI FORENZA 2006
Automatic, A/C, white, 125K miles. All power. 
$2800/OBO. Call 352-219-1298    8-26-16-
8-122014 YAMAHA 250CC MOTORCYCLE
Very low miles, white, great condition. $2800. 
Call 352-372-2815     8-26-16-6-12
2007 TOYOTA COROLLA
Great condition, 128K miles. White exterior. $6000/OBO. Call 352-275-9835    8-26-16-
5-12
LOW MILE. Cherry of a car. 2006 Pontiac 
Grand prix GT, 67K miles.Prem options, Supchgr. White, w/ blk & tan Lthr, 1 owner, Maintianed, Must See to appreciate! $7K OBO. Call 352-332-6333. or 352-328-6934     8-26-16-5-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-22-16-5-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the fall semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
ACROSS
1 D.C. fundraisers
5 Throat-clearing
word
9 Square root of 64
14 Marathon
aftermath
15 Singer Horne
16 Versailles send-
off
17 Moscow : nyet ::
Berlin : __
18 Paper or plastic
choice
20 Detective
Pinkerton
22 Protest singer Phil23 “Okay, __ do it!”24 Waitstaff boss27 Gravy container28 Cocktail31 Online company
with many drivers
33 Tot’s piggies37 Religious symbols39 “__ culpa”40 Misfortune42 Tales of __:
misfortunes
43 Bamboo eater45 Watson of “Harry
Potter” films
46 Learning by
memorization
47 Carrier that
added “ways” toits name in 1997
49 Butter toffee bar51 Popular climb
from Lone Pine,
California
57 Car rental giant60 Most of the Jolly
Green Giant’s
laugh
61 “Done!”
62 Fries, slaw, etc.
... and what this
puzzle’s circlesrepresent
65 “Terrible” tsar66 Coral island67 West Point initials68 Take a break69 Oater law group70 Gas company
with toy trucks
71 Neighborhood
DOWN
1 Old TWA rival
2 High-speed
Amtrak service3 Legumes used in
cook-offs
4 McCain or
McConnell
5 Math subj.
6 King of Judea
7 Firstborn son of
Cain
8 Ultra-manly
9 Corn piece
10 Peaceful11 Barb12 Furnace output13 Harbor craft19 Cornerstone abbr.
21 Gun lobby org.
25 Kett of old
comics
26 Christine’s lover
in “The Phantom
of the Opera”
29 Ultimatum words30 Tie the __: marry31 Strike caller32 Older brother of
Jeff Bridges
34 “__ to Billie Joe”35 Large shade tree
36 Total in math
38 “Understand?”
40 Scott of “Happy
Days”
41 Flea market
payment44 Ones “in
distress” in old
films
46 Tax-sheltered
nest egg
48 German coal
valley
50 Modeler’s buy52 “Obviously,
Einstein!”
53 “__ are the times
that try men’ssouls”: Paine54 Early-bird
catches
55 Rub out56 Gossipy sort57 Without delay, in
memos
58 Don Corleone’s
first name
59 Nuptial vows63 Barcelona 
cheer
64 Carrier to
Copenhagen
By John Doering Sr. and C.C. Burnikel©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/22/1608/22/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, August 22, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1. In 2015, Alex Rodriguez became 
the fourth major-league player to hit 
a home run as a teenager and as a 40-year-old. Name two of the other three to do it.
2. Name four of the six starting 
pitchers that the Pittsburgh Pirates used to win the 1971 World Series.
3. How many people have coached 
the Notre Dame football team for at 
least six seasons?
4. Five centers have averaged at 
least 12 points, 11 rebounds and five 
assists per game for an NBA season. Name four of them.
5. How many NHL All-Star Games 
has Pittsburgh Penguins star Sidney Crosby played in?
6. Who holds the record for most 
stages won in cycling’s Tour de France?
7. In 2015, Lydia Ko became the 
youngest player (18 years, 4 months) 
in women’s golf to win an LPGA 
major. Who had been the youngest?
Answers
1. Ty Cobb, Gary Sheffield and 
Rusty Staub.
2. Dock Ellis, Bob Johnson, Steve 
Blass, Luke Walker, Nelson Briles and Bob Moose.
3. Seven — Knute Rockne (13 sea-
sons), Lou Holtz (11), Frank Leahy (11), Ara Parseghian (11), Elmer Layden (seven), Dan Devine (six) and Brian Kelly (entering his seventh sea -
son).
4. Wilt Chamberlain, Kareem 
Abdul-Jabbar, Joakim Noah, Bill Russell and Bill Walton.
5. One, in 2007.6. Belgium’s Eddy Merckx, with 34.7. Morgan Pressel was 18 years, 10 
months old when she won a major in 
2007.
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 22, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
1
1312111098765432Alligator Shoe Repair
Proudly serving Gainesville for 31 years!
We specialize in men’s and women’s HEELS 
AND soles, HANDBAGS, AND BELT REPAIR
3448 W. University Ave • 352-338-1414Tues-Fri: 10-6 Sat: 10-2 Sun & Mon: Closed
PLEASE MAKE SURE THE PHONE NUMBER, 
SPELLING AND CONTACT INFO IS CORRECT.
APPROVING THIS ART, MEANS YOU AGREE THAT THE PRINTED INFORMATION IS EXACT
ad print colors will vary 
slightly due to the paper 
difference between 
proofs and final printing.Review your artwork carefully. Client 
approval confirms accuracy in the ad. 
The Alligator is NOT  responsible for 
errors or omissionsRUN DATE :__________________
REP :
APPROVED AS IS
APPROVED WITH CHANGES
Approved by _____________________
NEEDS CHANGES12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
22   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time & Flexible Hours!
Seeking Supervisors, Warehouse Staff,
Cashiers, Bartenders & Cook
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
352-692-6244
9-1-16-12-14
ARE YOU A SPORTS FAN? GET PAID
to promote a NEW LIVE Sports App
created by the makers of Madden
Football! GO TO:
www.letsplaysportsgames.com
8-24-16-5-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-2-16-12-14
WATER TREATMENT TECHNICIAN
5 Years experience & clean driving record required. Salary + Benefits.Local family owned business for over 30years!resumes@bestwatersolutions.com     8-25-16-5-14
ADMIN/MARKETING ASSISTANTFast growing family business seeking full time professional. Salary commensurate with experience. Full benefits available.resumes@bestwatersolutions.com      8-25-16-5-14
EXPERIENCED  ADMIN. ASSISTANT
Part Time & Flexible Hours! Microsoft Office & Outlook required.  Join our team!resumes@bestwatersolutions.com      8-25-16-5-14
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Now Hiring
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted to 
work with elementary school children doing 
arts & crafts, sports, Dance and
much more in an after school program
at various schools.
Hours are
M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders earn $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action
Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information call Misty @
the EDEP office 955-7766
8-26-16-5-14Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Earn While You Learn 
     TEXT Marketing      Immediate/monthly residual income 
     Hank: 352-283-3880
8-26-16-5-14
ANIMAL SCIENCE INTEREST?
----INTERN WANTEDGAIN EXOTIC ANIMAL EXPERIENCECONTACT GAINESVILLE RABBIT RESCUEEmail betsyday@ufl.edu for information     8-26-16-5-14
Monopoly research study: Looking for participants ages 15-21, Hispanic, born in the US.Call 352-294-5980 or email dmiller5@ufl.edu for more info.     9-2-16-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
After three years of waiting, 
Luke Del Rio finally became a starting quarterback.Read the story on pg. 30.Florida football ranked in preseason AP Poll
The Florida football team was ranked No. 25 in the preseason Associated 
Press T op 25 poll, released Sunday. Florida was last ranked in the preseason AP poll in 2013.MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Ian Cohen and  
Ethan Bauer
Sports Writers
With the Florida football team 
several weeks into preseason camp, 
alligatorSports Editors Ian Cohen and Ethan Bauer take a look at UF's position groups on defense and 
special teams and provide analysis 
from the first few weeks of Fall prac-tice.
Defensive backs
Player to watch: Jalen Tabor. 
Florida’s defensive backs unit starts and ends with Tabor. 
A reigning All-Southeastern 
Conference first team cornerback, Tabor has no Vernon Hargreaves to stand in his way this season, and should be the face of Florida’s de-fense in 2016. 
Plus, Tabor isn’t afraid to speak 
his mind on any topic. From poli-tics to religion to boasting about 
Florida’s 11-season winning streak 
over Tennessee, Tabor is a constant quote machine.
Under the radar: Chauncey 
Gardner, McArthur Burnett, 
Jeawon Taylor. All three are fresh-
men, and all three probably won’t see a ton of playing time this sea-son. But UF’s coaches and players 
can’t stop raving about the team’s new defensive backs. Redshirt ju-
nior defensive back Nick Washing-ton claims that Gardner and Taylor are SEC ready, while McElwain 
constantly lauds Burnett’s energy 
in each practice.Quote: “We’ve been in the most 
SEC Championships, won the most SEC Championships. I don’t know 
when that ever changed or why 
people thought that someone else was running the East.” — Jalen Ta-bor, on Tennessee being predicted to win the SEC East division. 
Analysis: There’s really only 
one name you need to remember in Florida’s secondary: Jalen Tabor. 
The good thing is, you’ll proba-
bly be remembering plenty of other names, too. 
Florida will likely start some 
combination of redshirt senior Marcus Maye, redshirt junior Nick Washington, juniors Quincy Wil-son, Duke Dawson and redshirt ju-nior Marcell Harris alongside Tabor 
in the secondary, and UF coaches 
have been impressed with each one. 
In particular, they’re pleased 
with Wilson’s development at out-side corner and Dawson’s perfor-mance at nickel, and they trust each one with a starting role.
Defensive backs coach Tor-
rian Gray said Wilson will be “an integral part” of UF’s defense and praised Dawson’s and Harris’ growth.
And when talking about Tabor, 
Gray’s face lit up with excitement. 
“He’s right in there with the mix of those guys, the Brandon Flowers, the Kendall Fullers, the Kyle Full-ers. They all have got an ‘it’ factor about them,” Gray said. 
“He has that savvy, that cocki-
ness or arrogance or whatever — that competitiveness about him that you’ve got to have to be a top-flight corner.”
Linebackers
Player to watch: Alex Anza-
lone. The former four-star recruit 
has been plagued by injuries during his college career, but he’s finally healthy. 
With depth concerns at line-
backer following the departure of 2015 starter Antonio Morrison for the NFL, the redshirt junior will have every opportunity to contrib-
ute alongside Jarrad Davis — that 
is, if he can stay on the field.
Plus, if we’re literally talking 
about players to watch, it’s hard to miss Anzalone thanks to his glow-ing blonde mane. At UF’s media day, he said he’s trimmed it once in the past two years. 
Under the radar: Cristian Gar-
cia. Known more for stopping a sexual assault in progress than for his contributions on the football field (and rightfully so), Garcia has a chance to see the field in 2016. 
Breaking down UF’s defense two weeks before opener
UF plays UMass on Sept. 3
SOCCER: UF 3 FAU 0
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
One of the biggest uncertainties fac -
ing the 2016 Florida soccer team this 
offseason was how it would fare defen -
sively following the loss of All-American defenders Christen Westphal and Claire Falknor to graduation.
The answer to that question became 
slightly clearer on Sunday afternoon, as No. 7 UF defeated unranked FAU 3-0 at James G. Pressly Stadium for its first 
shutout of the young season.
The Gators (2-0) limited the Owls (1-
1) to a total of three shots throughout 
the contest, an improvement over the six shots and two goals they conceded on 
Friday night against Iowa State.
Furthermore, Florida didn’t allow a 
single shot on goal in the second half, something coach Becky Burleigh de
-
manded of her team during the match’s 
intermission.
“The second half we wanted to have 
no looks from them whatsoever and no offensive presence from them,” Burleigh said. “I think we accomplished that, so that was a real positive for us.”
UF went with the same backline for 
the second consecutive contest, starting redshirt senior Erika Nelson, redshirt ju
-
nior Kristen Cardano, sophomore Sara Wilson and freshman Julia Lester.
Sophomore goalkeeper Kaylan 
Marckese earned her sixth career shutout and 16th career win. The St. Petersburg native was only required to make one save all match, praising her teammates 
gritty defensive effort following the vic
-
tory.UF’s defense stymies 
Florida Atlantic in shutoutDESPITE GOING 25-7, 2015 WAS 
CONSIDERED A DISAPPOINTING 
SEASON FOR THE GATORS. 
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
It was a rough year for Florida volleyball 
in 2015.
With a 25-7 record, the Gators suffered 
their lowest winning percentage since 1990 
and lost more conference matches (five) than 
any squad since that same year.
To make matters worse, the Gators 
dropped a five-set thriller to No. 3 seed Texas 
in the NCAA Tournament quarterfinals, turn-ing an already tough season into a sheer dis-appointment. 
But, with the dawning of a new season, 
the No. 10 Gators are leaving the past behind and focusing on what’s ahead.
“This is a new season, new year,” right-
side hitter Alex Holston said at Wednesday’s 
preseason media day. “We’re just really ex-
cited to get this season going. … We just wanna get on the court and start playing.”
Holston is coming off a strong 2015 cam-
paign in which she led the team in kills (381) and was second in points (438.5). Her play earned her a Third Team All-America selec-tion, making her one of three returning play-ers to receive All-America honors.
As the team’s lone senior, Holston is ex-
pected to take on a more vocal leadership 
role.
“I’m usually one of the more quiet people 
on the team,” she said. “This year, I’m really 
going to try to be more vocal.
“Time to step it up, I guess.”And as the team’s leader, Holston will 
have a lot to handle.
The Gators welcome nine new faces to 
the court, and eight of them will be playing 
collegiate-level volleyball for the first time.
Holston won’t be alone, though.
Juniors Rhamat Alhassan and Carli Sny-
der will join her as the shepherds of this young, 18-member squad.
And once again, 6-foot-4 middle block-
er Alhassan will be a force for the Gators around (and above) the net.
The first-team All-American dominated 
the competition last season. She was second in the country in blocks (189) and led her team in points (485.5).
However, despite her personal success, Volleyball poised for rebound
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 24 SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 29Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Jalen T abor speaks with reporters during UF's Media Day on Aug. 3. 
T abor will be counted on to lead Florida's secondary. 
SEE PLAYERS,  PAGE 3124   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
Alhassan is looking to move on 
from last season as well.
“It’s all about this year,” she 
said. “We’re not looking back into the past and using it as a negative thing. We’re gonna use it to help us get to where we wanna be in December.”
As for Snyder, the outside hit-
ter is a rising star for the Gators.
In 2015, Snyder set career highs 
in kills (247), aces (12), digs (246), blocks (39) and points (283), and 
to top it off, her outstanding play 
earned her an Honorable Mention 
All-America selection. 
With a lot of new additions to 
the squad, Snyder said the offsea-son has been about getting the team to mesh.
“There’s a lot of people to get 
to know, a lot of chemistry to be made,” she said. “Our preseason 
this year has been a lot about vol-leyball but also a lot about getting 
to know each other.”
And the one making sure her 
team accomplishes that feat, as she has done for more than 20 years, is head coach Mary Wise.
“It’s a year of the unknowns,” 
Wise said. “But what we do know is that there are three returning 
players with a whole lot of experi-
ence in Alex, Rhamat and Carli.”
The Gators have a challenging 
first match of the season on Fri-day, when Wise’s team faces Ne-braska, the 2015 national champi-ons, in Eugene, Oregon. 
But to Wise, it’s not how you 
start. It’s how you finish.
“It’s going to be our goal, just 
like it was last year, to play our best volleyball at the end,” she said. “If we can do that, this team has the chance to be pretty spe-cial.”
@rboone8461
rboone@alligator.orgVOLLEY,  from pg 23UF opens play on FridayJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Mary Wise calls out orders during Florida's 3-0 win over Auburn 
on Oct. 10. Wise is entering her 26th year as UF's coach.
VOLLEYBALL
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Roster turnover can stunt a program’s growth.
Yet, after losing more than a third of its roster to gradu -
ation or transfer, the Florida volleyball team might have improved. 
“I’m really excited just to be back. It’s definitely some
-
thing we’ve been looking forward to, just having this huge team and knowing that our bench is this deep,” junior mid
-
dle blocker Rhamat Alhassan said. 
That depth, courtesy of a nine-player recruiting class, 
earned 2015 NCAA quarterfinalist Florida the 10th spot on 
the AVCA’s preseason rankings, despite fielding a squad 
that is equal parts experience and youth.
Focusing the team’s recruiting efforts on athleticism and 
length, coach Mary Wise and her staff set out to find agile defensive specialists, rangy outside hitters and imposing 
middle blockers.
“The game is won in women’s volleyball just like men’s 
volleyball — it’s won above the net,” she said. “How physi
-
cal are your players, and how high above the net can they 
play? When you have tall players who can also jump, 
you’ve got an advantage when you can jump that high.”
One player in particular, though, has caught the eye of 
players and coaches alike. 
“Have you met Rachael?” Wise said.
Towering at 6-foot-8, Rachael Kramer occupies a spot 
in the record books as the tallest woman to suit up for UF’s volleyball team. A 2015 Under Armour High School second-team All-American, Kramer’s singular brand of size and 
skill was noticed immediately.
“It definitely changes the dynamic in this gym,” Alhas
-
san said. “Right now in practice, it’s so much more chal -
lenging just having that kind of size to play against, and it’s 
good because it just makes us better and it’s just helping 
everyone around us.”
However, new faces bring new challenges, and with 
such an influx, UF is placing a premium on developing 
team chemistry. 
Florida held involuntary workouts regularly over the 
summer as well as an “off-the-grid” team-bonding trip to a 
Panhandle beach house.
Right-side hitter Alex Holston, the lone senior following 
this offseason’s upheaval, understands the changing leader -
ship dynamic that comes with such a green side.
“Our gym is so competitive. It’s awesome. All the new -
comers bring a different side of things as far as volleyball 
(goes), with new energy and fresh faces on the court,” she 
said.“At least it’s me not doing it all by myself. I have Carli, 
Rhamat, Shainah (Joseph). They call us the team leaders, 
so it’s not just me trying to lead a big group of 18 girls this whole season.”
But for all their inexperience, for all the novelty, this 
group houses serious potential.
“For new transfers to the team, I would just say be your
-
self and come in knowing that we’re all on the same page,” redshirt sophomore Allie Monserez said. 
“We’re all ready to work hard, and just all (ready to) 
fulfill one goal.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgIncoming recruits have UF buzzing
 Incoming 
recruiting class has volleyball buzzingjj
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan elevates before swinging at the 
ball during UF's 3-0 win over T exas A&M on Oct. 9. Alhassan was a first-team All-American in 2015.
MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   25
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
Much of UF’s men’s swimming 
and diving team’s potential success 
this season will likely be due to Olym-
pic gold medalist Caeleb Dressel. 
The 20-year-old junior from Green 
Cove Springs put the world on notice last March when he broke national 
records in the 50- and 100-yard free-style at the NCAA Championships 
with times of 18.20 and 40.46, re-
spectively. 
But while Dressel accounted for 
nearly half of UF’s victories last sea-son — a season which included an SEC Championship and a third place 
ﬁ  nish at the NCAAs — among re-
turning swimmers, he will not be the 
men’s only top contributor.
Senior Jack 
Blyzinskyj and 
juniors Jan Swit-
kowski and Mark 
Szaranek are all 
expected to take 
on bigger roles 
this season.
Blyzinskyj, who is UF’s primary 
backstroke swimmer, accumulated 23 total victories last season, includ-
ing 15 relay wins. 
Switkowski and Szaranek com-
bined for 17 victories in solo competi-
tion last season. Their ability to per-
form in solo events as well as relays will be vital against a much tougher 
SEC gauntlet this season.
The men’s team will also receive 
a boost in depth from incoming 
freshmen Maxime Rooney and Drew 
Clark. 
Rooney, a top-ﬁ  ve recruit in the 
2016 class, will bolster Florida’s free-
style lineup. 
Clark, a Florida 4A state cham-pion in the 500-yard freestyle, could be a viable option to replace graduate 
Arthur Frayler in endurance events, 
such as the 1,650-yard freestyle.
On the women’s side, the Gators 
will be looking to retool their lineup after ﬁ  nishing outside of the top 10 
at the NCAAs for the ﬁ  rst time since 
2000.
With Natalie Hinds gone, along 
with eight other swimmers and divers 
from last season, the Gators will need 
some extra effort out of everyone. 
Redshirt senior Georgia-Mae 
Hohmann, along with sophomores Hannah Burns and Mollie Pulte, are expected to be UF’s top contributors this season. 
Hohmann, who leads the Gators 
in total victories (15), will play a criti-
cal part individually in both the back-
stroke and butterﬂ  y events. 
Meanwhile, Burns and Pulte will 
be the main core in Florida’s freestyle and relay lineups this season after 
combining for 16 total wins during 
their freshman campaigns. 
UF will also receive a talent boost 
from incoming freshmen Savanna 
Faulconer and Makayla Sargent. 
 @TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.org  Men’s swimming and diving seeks ﬁ  fth straight SEC title
Dressel
26   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The biggest story for the 
Florida men’s golf team was the 
emergence of two young talents 
in sophomores Sam Horsﬁ  eld and 
Gordon Neale. 
Horsﬁ  eld started out the Spring 
season with an individual title at 
the Sea Best Invitational in Ponte 
Vedra Beach, shooting 7-under 
203 and becoming the ﬁ  rst Gator 
freshman to win a tournament since Billy Horschel in 2006. 
He added two more individual 
titles to his resume at the Mason 
Rudolph Championship and the 
Southern Highlands Collegiate 
and placed second at the SunTrust Gator Invitational.
Neale’s story, however, started 
out a little differently. He didn’t 
play until the Mason Rudolph 
Championship in April.
But he made a big impression. In his second tournament of 
the season, Neale put up a 5-un-der 208 to take second behind Horsﬁ  eld, who shot a 7-under 206.
After that performance, though, 
third-year head coach J.C. Deacon added Neale to the ﬁ  ve golfers Florida plays each tournament.
At the Southeastern Confer-
ence Championship, Neale shot 
a 1-over 211 to ﬁ  nish fourth, the 
highest among freshmen. At the NCAA Regional Championship and the NCAA Championship, 
Neale shot a 1-over 217 for a 
share of 29th place and a 7-over 287 for a share of 26th place, re-spectively.
The Gators found success 
throughout the season, winning two tournaments. In the postsea-son, Florida ﬁ  nished third at the SEC Championship, second at the 
NCAA Regional Championship 
and 15th at the NCAA Champion-ship.
The Florida lineup at the end 
of  NCAAs consisted of Horsﬁ  eld, 
Neale, junior Alejandro Tosti, 
sophomore Jorge Garcia and se-nior Ryan Orr, all of whom are returning in the Fall. 
The Gators only lost two play-
ers — with Richard Donegan grad-uating and redshirt senior Conor Richardson transferring to North-western — but they also added 
incoming freshman Andy Zhang 
to the team. Zhang competed in the 2012 U.S. Open when he was 14 after an impressive showing in 
the qualiﬁ  ers.The Gators will play in four 
tournaments in the Fall: the Car-
pet Capital Invitational on Sept. 9, the Windon Memorial on Sept. 25, 
the Nike Golf Collegiate Invita-
tional on Oct. 2 and the Tavistock Collegiate on Oct. 16.
Meanwhile, the core ﬁ  ve for 
the Florida women’s golf team 
had an impressive spring, show-
casing several dominating perfor-mances and ﬁ  rst place ﬁ  nishes.
Florida won ﬁ  ve of its six 
spring tournaments and ﬁ  nished third in the other.
The Gators then ﬁ  nished sec-
ond at the Southeastern Confer-ence Championship, tied for ﬁ  rst 
at the NCAA Regional Champi-
onship and ﬁ  nished 17th at the NCAA Championship.
As individuals, a Gator won 
only two tournaments, with Kelly Grassel and Taylor Tomlinson ty-ing for ﬁ  rst at the Florida Chal-lenge and Maria Torres winning the SEC Championship with 9-un-
der 207, the second lowest tour-
nament score in Florida history
Torres’ SEC victory made her 
the seventh Gator to win the SEC 
Championship and the ﬁ  rst since 
2003.
As the season progressed, 
sophomore Sam Wagner started showing signs of improvement, 
which was reﬂ  ected in her place-
ment in each tournament.
Early on, Wagner struggled, ty-
ing for 38th at the SunTrust Gator 
Invitational in March.She turned it around, though, 
with a 4-under 212 performance 
at the Briar’s Creek Invitational for a share of ﬁ  fth place and a 
5-under 211 score at the Clemson 
Invitational for fourth.
Karolina Vlckova, Tomlinson, 
Torres, Grassel and Wagner are all returning for the fall. While 
Florida lost Laura Kanouse and 
Ursa Orehek to graduation, it has a strong freshman class ready to make an impact.
Marta Perez was the top-ranked 
junior player in Spain from 2008-2015 and was the runner-up at the both the 2015 British Girls’ Cham-pionship and the 2014 Spanish 
Under-16 Amateur Championship.
Rounding out the class are 
Carlotta Ricolﬁ   and Elin Esborn. 
Ricolﬁ   was the 2014 and 2015 
Duke of York Young Girls’ Cham-
pion and helped Italy win Silver at the 2014 and 2015 European Girls Team Championships. Esborn ﬁ  n-ished third at both the 2015 In-
ternational French Junior and the 
2015 Skandia Tour Elite #1 Cham-pionship.
The Gators have four tourna-
ments in the fall: The Mercedes-Benz Collegiate Championships — which will kick off their season on Sept. 12 — the Annika Classic on Sept. 25, the Windy City Classic 
on Oct. 3 and the Stanford Inter-
collegiate on Oct. 14.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org  Gators look to continue strong play behind Horsﬁ  eld, Neale
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Gordon Neale lines up a shot during the SunTrust Gator Invitation-
al on Feb. 21 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   27
28   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
BOTH THE MEN’S AND 
WOMEN’S TEAMS LOST 
TOP CONTRIBUTORS. 
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
As a new season sprouts for 
Florida’s cross country program, big 
changes are approaching for both 
the men’s and women’s teams. 
Some of these changes were ex-
pected. Others were unforeseeable. Regardless, coach Paul Spangler 
enters his ﬁ  fth season with unan-swered questions.
While the women’s team brings 
nine new faces to the terrain for the upcoming season, it will have a lot of ground to cover to ﬁ  ll the void of those who left the team. 
It unexpectedly lost 2015 sopho-
more Lauren Brasure after she was injured in a car accident that she is still recovering from. 
Her immediate concern is return-ing to full health, as the accident led to multiple surgeries and left her in 
critical condition for days.
Meanwhile, runner Maria Larsen 
— the 2015 All-SEC freshman — de-
cided to return home to Copenha-gen, Denmark, for personal reasons.  
The men’s team was dealt its fair 
share of losses as well, with ﬁ  ve run-ners who combined for 15 top-20 ﬁ  nishes last season leaving due to 
graduation, including then-redshirt 
senior Jimmy Clark. 
Clark had a productive ﬁ  nal year, 
placing in the top 10 in four races and qualifying for the NCAA Cham-
pionships. 
However, with sudden exits 
comes optimism toward the future. 
Spangler looked for recruits 
across the nation, but he found some 
of them closer to home. 
Freshman Blake Lowery, a grad-
uate of Gainesville High School, ﬁ  nished second in the 2015 FHSAA 
Class 3A Cross Country Champion-ship and is among one of the young-
er runners expected to produce. 
On the women’s side, one addi-
tion was already a UF athlete. She just had to change sports.
Redshirt sophomore Paige 
Scheriger spent her ﬁ  rst two years 
on Florida’s swimming and diving 
team.
Along with some runners who 
have experience, such as seniors 
Carlos Miranda and Taylor Tubbs, 
the younger runners will look to lead Florida into future.  
The teams will have their ﬁ  rst op-
portunity to compete on Sept. 2 at 
the Covered Bridge Open in Boone, 
North Carolina. 
Florida had one of its best perfor-
mances at this event last year, ﬁ  n-
ishing ﬁ  rst in the men’s event and 
second in the women’s. 
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org UF cross country hoping to ﬁ  ll talent void
Alligator File Photo
Carlos Miranda (163) races next to former teammate 
Eddie Garcia (157) during the 2015 Mountain Dew 
Invitational on Sept. 19 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
Alligator File Photo
Maria Larsen (143), who left the team and returned home to Denmark, runs alongside former 
teammate T aylor Tubbs (150) during the 2015 Mountain Dew Invitational on Sept. 19. 
MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   29
SALES REP
OF THE SEMESTER
SUMMER B
MATHEWS SILVA
major: advertising
CONGRA TULATIONS!HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales Intern
Resume builder
Personalized classroom trainingFirst-hand sales experienceImprove communication skillsMinimum 10-hour work week
Email resume for internship to 
intern@alligator.orgSales Representative
Gain sales experience
Learn prospecting skillsImprove communication skillsFlexible scheduleNo weekendsEmail resume for sales rep position 
to Shaun O’Connor at 
soconnor@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Fal/l.end 2016
*Must be enrolled in fall classes 
at UF or Santa Fe to apply
“(Westphal and Falknor) 
held it down for a long time," 
Marckese said, "but we’ve deﬁ  -
nitely had a lot of freshman and some transfers come in … and step up into that position for us 
and help us out, so now we have 
a lot of options."
Offensively, the Gators net-
ted all three of their goals in the 
ﬁ  rst half. Sophomore Melanie Monteagudo scored in the 24th 
minute off an assist from senior Savannah Jordan.
Five minutes later, Jordan 
was fouled in the penalty box by FAU’s Alex Mason, earning Flor-
ida a penalty kick that was con-
verted by senior Meggie Dough-erty Howard.
Jordan ﬁ  nished the half with 
another penalty shot with four seconds remaining after she was run into by Owls’ goalkeeper Sydney Drinkwater.
Drinkwater received a red 
card on the play, forcing backup 
goalie Jennifer Ocampo to take 
over in net. Ocampo blocked Jordan’s initial penalty kick, but 
the three-time All-American was 
able to corral the rebound and score as time expired.
Jordan’s goal was the 67th of 
her career, moving her past Dan-ielle Fotopoulos into third place on UF’s all-time scoring list.“It’s amazing to always have 
an accomplishment like that,” Jordan said. “To be compared 
to any of the great players who 
played here is always amazing and a great honor. My team-
mates have done an excellent job 
over the past four years … so I couldn’t do it without them. It’s a great honor moving forward.”
Florida begins a stretch of 
six road matches next weekend when the team travels to Cali-fornia. The Gators will face No. 5 Stanford on Friday at 11 p.m. and unranked UCLA on Sunday 
at 6 p.m.
“Obviously two really good 
teams,” Burleigh said. “We’re looking forward to our ﬁ  rst road 
trip, so that’s a little bit different for everybody too. I’m excited about it.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg 23Florida took an early lead, scoring all three goals in the irst half
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan (7) kicks the ball during Florida's 5-2 win over Iowa State on Friday at James G. 
Pressly Stadium. Jordan was UF's leading goal scorer last season. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Meggie Dougherty Howard (28) embraces sophomore Mayra Pelayo (27) during UF's 5-2 win over Iowa State on Friday. 
30   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Luke Del Rio was destined to start 
at quarterback for Jim McElwain. 
At least that’s how it looks in hind-
sight. 
McElwain named Del Rio — the 
son of Oakland Raiders head coach 
Jack Del Rio — the starter for Flori-da’s Sept. 3 season opener against Massachusetts on Thursday, end-ing Del Rio’s four-year journey from benchwarmer to starter.
But in a way, Del Rio’s journey to 
starterdom started long before McEl-wain tabbed him as the heir to Treon 
Harris. 
Perhaps it was when he was a kid 
learning the game from his dad, who 
was an NFL player and future NFL coach. Perhaps it was back when he ﬁ  rst strapped on a helmet and had pads smacked on his shoulders. Or perhaps it was when he threw his ﬁ  rst pass. 
A more deﬁ  nitive moment, 
though, was when he received his ﬁ  rst scholarship offer. And who was responsible for that ﬁ  rst offer?
Jim McElwain, then the head 
coach at Colorado State. 
“Wait a minute,” McElwain joked 
when asked about Del Rio’s lack of offers coming out of high school, “the 
guy had Colorado State. He had of-
fers.”
Technically, he’s correct. Accord-
ing to 247Sports, Del Rio also wielded offers from Oregon State, Oklahoma State and UCLA. But that’s far fewer offers than most UF starters have coming out of high school. For ex-ample, Harris boasted 21 offers when he picked the Gators.
The lack of offers stemmed from 
several factors including his height (He’s 6-foot-1, which is considered 
short for a quarterback) and the fact 
that he came from Colorado, which isn’t known for producing top-end football talent. 
However, Del Rio was still rated as 
the best quarterback in the state by the 247Sports Composite while also being ranked No. 4 overall in Colo-rado and No. 33 overall as a quarter-
back. 
He also had conﬁ  dence. He want-
ed to play at a big school. So with that 
in mind, he enrolled as a preferred walk-on at Alabama in 2013. 
But his time there — during which 
he registered zero statistics — didn’t last. By the start of the 2014 season, he was at Oregon State. 
Once again, it didn’t last. This time, though, he was headed 
to two familiar faces. The ﬁ  rst was Doug Nussmeier, Florida’s offensive coordinator who served in the same position while Del Rio was at Ala-bama. 
The other was McElwain, the ﬁ  rst 
coach to believe in Del Rio.
But Del Rio still couldn’t contrib-
ute. Per NCAA rules, he had to sit out a season. 
“Last year, I was running out of 
the same tunnel kind of looking like this,” Del Rio said after being named the starter, pointing at his Gator polo shirt and shorts. “So I looked like the equipment 
staff did. It’ll be nice to be wearing pads this time.”
Luckily for him, the transferring 
of Harris and fellow quarterback Will Grier left the door open for him to breeze through. It was made a little 
more challenging with the arrival of 
Purdue graduate transfer Austin Ap-pleby ahead of the 2016 season, but Del Rio managed to win out. 
“I feel like I earned it,” he said. “I 
thought I had a really good camp. I’m glad the coaches saw it the same way.
“It was deﬁ  nitely rewarding to 
hear coach Mac give me the keys to 
the car, as he calls it.”
However, Del Rio still has to deal 
with the quarterback drought that has 
plagued UF ever since the departure of Tim Tebow. Since the Heisman Trophy winner left in 2009, Florida has started eight quarterbacks — six of which have transferred — with none of them leading the Gators to 
anything more than a 2012 Sugar 
Bowl spanking against Louisville. 
Nevertheless, Del Rio is still conﬁ  -
dent that he’ll be the guy to break the curse with the help of what he sees as a strong supporting cast. 
“Just because I got named the 
starting quarterback that doesn’t mean I’m the guy of the team,” he 
said. “I’m the quarterback. There’s 
still 10 other guys on offense, and there’s a lot of guys on defense. But to be able to have it sorted out I think does help.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org  After three years of waiting, Del Rio earns starting gig
UF has started eight QBs since 2009
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Luke Del Rio talks to reporters during Florida’s Media Day on Aug. 
3. Del Rio, son of Oakland Raiders head coach Jack Del Rio, was named UF’s starting quarterback last Thursday.
MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   31
Thanks to a lack of depth and an 
influx of young players, the former walk-on and redshirt junior is one of the older players of the group. He forced Mark Thompson to fumble in the Orange and Blue Debut and has drawn rave reviews from team-mates. 
Quote: Jarrad Davis on Cristian 
Garcia: “The things that he’s able to do and the way he goes about the game and the way he plays is not like other walk-ons.”
Analysis: The story of Florida’s 
linebackers is one of unfulfilled po-tential. 
The 2013 recruiting class was 
supposed to revolutionize and rein-vigorate the group with an injection of top-caliber talent. 
That talent came in the form 
of four-star linebackers Anzalone, Daniel McMillian and Matt Rolin as well as three-star recruit Davis. Everyone in that top group of three 
was rated a top-13 linebacker in the 
class by 247Sports, with Anzalone and McMillian both in the top five. 
As it turned out, though, Davis 
surprised everyone by outperform-ing the group of three. His 145 ca-reer tackles are more than double the group’s output put together (they’ve combined for 69 career 
tackles).
A lot of that is because of injury. 
Rolin sustained several knee inju-ries and didn’t even see the field un-
til 2015 as a redshirt sophomore and recently gave up football entirely with plans to finish his degree at UF. 
Anzalone was a starter last sea-
son before sustaining a shoulder injury after Florida’s second game. And while he’s contributed on spe-cial teams, McMillian just hasn’t played well enough at linebacker to merit seeing the field consistently. This season, though, McMillian’s 
likely to play plenty. Without Mor-rison, the remaining members of the group of three and Davis are the only recruited linebackers who aren’t freshmen. 
That could open the door for 
some walk-ons like Garcia, R.J. Raymond or Steven Stipe to see the field. It could also lead to freshmen 
being given opportunities. 
The possible freshmen contribu-
tors are redshirt freshmen Kylan 
Johnson and Rayshad Jackson along with true freshmen Vosean Joseph, Jeremiah Moon and David Reese. 
In short, Florida needs what's 
left of the group of three to finally fulfill its potential alongside Davis. 
If not, it’ll have to turn — more than 
it’d probably like — to freshmen and walk-ons. 
Defensive Line
Players to Watch: CeCe Jeffer-
son, Antonneous Clayton. Caleb Brantley is too obvious here, so in-stead, Jefferson and Clayton are two up-and-comers to watch. Both were top recruits, both are young and both bring size. 
Clayton brings it in the form of 
height — he’s 6-foot-3, 220 pounds — while Jefferson brings it in the form of girth — he’s 6-foot-1, 261 pounds. Clayton, a true freshman, could see a role as a third-down pass rusher because of his lean frame — much like Jefferson did as a freshman last season — while Jef-ferson has a ceiling as high as any-one on the team. 
Under the Radar: Taven Bry-
an, Joey Ivie. Both players are in-terior guys who are listed at about 
300 pounds each. Ivie, a senior, has 
been under the radar since he ar-
rived at Florida as a three-star de-fensive end. 
Since moving inside, he’s been 
productive for the Gators by rack-ing up at least 20 tackles each of the past two seasons. He’s expected to line the interior along with Caleb Brantley. 
Bryan, a redshirt sophomore 
who defensive line coach Chris Rumph once called the “Wyoming wild man,” is someone who will provide vital relief to the interior of the line. 
He's someone who coaches have 
raved about as having tons of raw potential but a limited understand-ing of the game. With another off-season of learning opportunities, he could put the two together this season. 
Quote: CeCe Jefferson: “I think 
on the D-Line everybody’s gonna have such a successful year that nobody’s really gonna stand out. I think everybody’s just gonna — it’s literally gonna be a feeding frenzy.”
Analysis: Florida’s defensive line 
isn’t lacking depth. What it is lacking is proven playmakers. 
Following the departures of sack 
leaders Jonathan Bullard and Alex McCalister to the NFL, the Gators are 
looking for players to fill the void. 
The starting group that is most 
likely to fill that void is made up 
of Caleb Brantley and Joey Ivie on the inside and Bryan Cox and Jor-dan Sherit on the outside. However, there are lots of other players to be plugged in. 
The contributors start with CeCe 
Jefferson, Khairi Clark, Taven Bryan and Luke Ancrum at tackle. On the outside, a committee of Justus Reed, 
Keivonnis Davis, Jabari Zuniga and 
Antonneous Clayton will try to bol-ster the bookends. 
In addition, true freshmen Jordan 
Smith and Jachai Polite could see ac-tion if the team suffers injuries or if the duo surprises coaches early. 
That’s a lot of names to know, 
but before long, it’s likely that a cou-
ple of players will separate from the 
pack and establish themselves. 
If not, the team is at least assured 
of fielding a stable of capable play-ers. 
Special Teams
Player to Watch: Eddy Pinei-
ro. By now, you’ve probably heard 
about Florida’s long-distance kick-ing YouTube sensation, the guy who has posted videos of himself knock-ing down 50-, 60- and 70-yard field goals.
The problem — they’ve all been 
on practice fields. Pineiro has never kicked in a game where the score ac-
tually mattered. 
The pressure is on Pineiro to 
solve Florida’s field-goal kicking 
woes after a season in which the Gators made just seven of their 17 field goals.Under the radar: Johnny 
Townsend. The only reason Townsend is under the radar is be-cause punters rarely receive much attention on any level. 
But let’s not forget, #PuntersAre-
PeopleToo.
Townsend is one of the top punt-
ers in the SEC and was the most con-sistent aspect of UF’s special teams unit last season. Expect another year 
of the same.
Quote: McElwain, on Pineiro's 
performance in UF’s annual Spring 
game on April 8: “We really got excited when he put his helmet on correctly. That was pretty cool. And then he got it buckled, and that was even better.”
Analysis: Pineiro and Townsend 
are the headliners of Florida’s spe-
cial teams. If the two live up to their 
hype, there’s no question that Flori-da will have one of the best one-two punches of kicker and punter in the country.
Like last season, Florida may 
stick with Antonio Callaway return-ing punts. 
But because the sophomore re-
ceiver’s value has risen so sharply now that he’s not an unknown fresh-man, UF may give some other play-ers chances in the return game.
Some possible options include ju-
nior Dre Massey, freshman Chaunc-ey Gardner and junior Brandon Pow-ell, all elusive playmakers who can help out UF’s special teams.
Keep your eye on Massey, a 
receiver who has continually im-pressed McElwain since the start of camp.
“(He’s) a guy that, man, he gives 
us a lot of versatility in a lot of differ-ent ways,” McElwain said. 
“Not only in the return game, but 
in a lot of things that we’re going 
to do offensively. He’s one of those 
kind of multi-spot guys. He can throw it. He can catch it. He can run it. So he’s another guy to be looking for in that situation.”
PLAYERS,  from pg 23UF only has three upperclassmen linebackers who weren't walk-ons
Alligator File Photo
CeCe Jefferson lines up against a pair of defensive linemen during a drill on March 21 at the Sanders 
Practice Fields. The sophomore is one of the youngest contributors along UF's defensive line.
Alligator File Photo
Antonio Callaway is tackled during Florida's 20-14 win over FAU on Nov. 21 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Callaway, who returned punts last season, could contribute in the return game again this season. 
32   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2016
