We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 107 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016
Florida baseball sweeps 
opening weekend
The Gators beat FGCU 12-3 
on Sunday, pg. 8
UF hosts conference on sustainability, growing 
population
The winning team received $1,5000, pg. 3
Alachua Library District seeks volunteers
It’s a program to teach adults how to read, pg. 5Season-opening Sweep
Check out the Baseball photo story, pgs 8-9
THE BOAT IS CALLED 
THE NAVIGATOR.
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students sailed their ﬁ  rst self-steering 
boat across Lake Wauburg on Saturday.
Zach Goins and his team of nine students 
started building the robot about six months 
ago, working on it at the Machine Intelli-gence Lab at UF on Gale Lemerand Drive. The boat, called the NaviGator, senses its en-vironment using radar and makes navigation decisions based on what it detects, without any human interaction.
The lab received $250,000 in funding to 
build the NaviGator along with two other robots, which are still being built, said Eric Schwartz, the project coordinator for the NaviGator. 
Funding comes from Harris Corporation, 
a technology company, as well as UF’s Col-lege of Engineering, he said. With this fund-ing, the NaviGator uses computer vision methods to analyze its surroundings and chart a course while in the water.
“We have to teach the robot to think like 
humans do and react to its environment like we would,” said Goins, a UF ﬁ  nance senior, said. “There’s a lot more that your brain does that you don’t realize, and we had to make the robot think like a brain would.”
The groups will enter the robot in its ﬁ  rst 
competition, the Maritime Robotx Challenge, in December, the 22-year-old said. The team of 10 will travel to Hawaii to compete.
Schwartz said the boat is the biggest ro-
bot UF students have ever built.
“You hear about (the Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology), but I’ll put our students against MIT students for building something, and we would win,” Schwartz said. “Our students can get their hands dirty.”
He said he thinks the group will win the 
competition.
First UF student-built boat sets sail for the seas of adventure
SEE BOAT,  PAGE 4By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
On a breezy Saturday afternoon, members 
of the UF community came together to cut the ribbon of the newly-renovated Reitz Union.
In the shade of the union’s North Lawn 
entrance, about 200 people — including past 
UF Student Body presidents, UF administration and friends — came together to celebrate the 
building’s completion.
During his speech, UF President Kent Fuchs 
said the Reitz Union was once called the “queen of the campus” for its central location and cen-ter for students. When the wear and tear of use 
began to take its toll on the building, UF decid-
ed to rebuild it. With the grand reopening, he said, the building is taking back its nickname.“The Reitz is reclaiming its title as ‘queen of 
the campus,’” he said. “And with the comple-tion of the new Reitz, expanding on the old, we preserve that tradition while extending it into those vastly more connected times, the queen of UF’s ever-expanding realm.”
UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines spoke about how the new space for 
student organizations and Student Government 
will allow for all students to come together. She added that the building’s big windows for natu-ral lighting illuminate the future of UF. She said students are glad to see the Reitz completed.
“For the students who have gone through 
their entire time at UF with this building under construction, I can tell you we’re glad this mo-ment is here,” she said.  
Former UF president Bernie Machen and UF oﬃ   cially opens renovated Reitz Union
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Students lost access to an app 
that organizes content on Canvas on Thursday.
Instructure, the company that 
runs Canvas, stopped Schoolﬂ  ow’s 
access to UF students’ online cours-
es, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said. 
“A third-party company had ac-
cess to UF students’ information without an authorized access,” she said. 
Sikes said companies that work 
with UF go through a process to 
evaluate their product before adver-
tising it to students. Gabe Medina, a co-founder and the CEO of School-ﬂ  ow, said the app had to be taken down completely at both UF and at the University of Central Florida. The company, which is based in Orlando, launched their app at UCF in September. He said Schoolﬂ  ow had received approval from UCF and Canvas about securing student 
information.
Schoolﬂ  ow was introduced to 
UF students Feb. 15 through emails. 
About 500 students downloaded it when it launched, Medina said. He said the company is talking with Canvas and UF to reach an under-standing. Sikes said nothing about the app was illegal, but UF wants to 
be sure the company went through 
the required procedure. After that, it could come back.
Shawn Alicea, 22, said he would 
feel comfortable using the app if it was approved. 
“If it was approved by the 
school, I would feel safe putting my information in,” the UF marketing 
senior said. 
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org UF removes 
Schoolﬂ  ow accessSEE REITZ,  PAGE 4
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
SHREDDING ON NORMAN
Bassist Mike Caldarera, left, vocalist Julian Cires and violinist Emily Dwyer perform as indie rock 
band Lavola on Norman Field on Saturday for E-Fest, an event held during Engineers’ Week.
Ribbon-cutting held Saturday
TECHNOLOGY“The Reitz is reclaiming its title as 
‘queen of the campus’.”
Kent Fuchs
UF PresidentSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Fair Use Week
The Smathers Libraries invite 
the UF community to celebrate 
Fair Use Week by being a Fair 
Use Fighter. Fair Use Week is an annual celebration during which libraries, universities, 
museums, archives and indi-
viduals raise awareness about fair use. Today from noon to 1 p.m., stop by the table on the Library 
West colonnade. Wednesday 
from 11 a.m. to noon, visit the Marston Science Library entrance to learn more with 
games, prizes and photos as a 
Fair Use Fighter. Wednesday from 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m., attend the “Can I Use That? Fair Use 
for Teaching” workshop in 
Marston, Room 136. For more information, contact Christine Fruin at Christine.ross@ufl.
edu.
Florida Museum closed today 
through Wednesday
The Florida Museum of 
Natural History, including 
the Butterfly Rainforest ex-hibit, will be closed today through Wednesday for pre-
ventive fumigation to protect 
its Lepidoptera collections and library resources. The museum will reopen Thursday. Please check flmnh.
ufl.edu for more information.
The Crossroads Project
The Crossroads Project, com-ing to First United Methodist 
Church on Tuesday at 6 p.m., is a partnership between sci-ence and art that aims to blend performance art with one of 
the great conversations of our 
time: human civilization’s growing unsustainability and the quest for truly meaningful 
response. 
Blending compelling and po-etic science, evocative imagery and powerful music, “Rising Tide” unfolds in a series of vi-
gnettes that explore both natu-
ral and human systems, and juxtapose two very different paradigms. 
The result is an inspiring and 
deeply personal contemplation of the paths before us. A Q&A session will follow the performance. The event is free 
and open to the public, but tickets are required. Tickets 
can be reserved through event-
brite.com.
Yes Means Yes
Yes Means Yes is a five-week 
student-run positive sexual-
ity seminar that is running 
in partnership with UF’s Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education and 
GatorWell. 
The objective is to create a space and opportunity for UF students to define consent, sexual assault and rape while 
learning to think about and 
verbalize what a positive sexu-al experience means for them. Yes Means Yes is running each 
Thursday from March 9 to 
April 6. The course is capped at 35 students, who will each read chapters from a book by the same name, “Yes Means 
Yes,” and engage critically, 
thoughtfully and compassion-ately with a variety of topics during the seminars. 
Apply now at gatorwell.wu-
foo.com/forms/ymy-seminar-application.
Apply Now for 2016-17 
Financial AidTo apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) 
at www.fafsa.ed.gov. You can 
file a FAFSA as early as Jan. 1 each year. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive the results of your 
FAFSA from the federal pro-
cessor is March 15. Apply well before March 15 to ensure that the federal processor has time 
to analyze and send the results 
of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first come, first served basis so apply as 
early as possible to be con-
sidered for the most, and best aid. In order for UF Student Financial Affairs to consider 
you for a financial aid pack-
age, you must be an admit-ted student and have met the “On-Time” deadline. For more information or assistance with 
completing your FAFSA, visit 
fafsa.ed.gov or contact your financial aid adviser sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Toastmasters meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, situated at 970 
Natural Area Drive, east of 
the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art. Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For details 
about Talking Gators, go to 
talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page. 
"The mission of Toastmasters 
is to provide a supportive and positive learning experience in which members are em-powered to develop commu-
nication and leadership skills, 
resulting in greater self-confi-dence and personal growth."
Register for Three Minute 
Thesis CompetitionThe UF graduate school 
will host the third annual 
Three Minute Thesis (3MT) Competition in March. The competition challenges doc-toral students to present their dissertations to a non-techni-cal audience in three minutes 
or less. Preliminary heats will 
be held in March to determine finalists for the grand finale event March 29. Along with 
helping graduate students 
hone their communication and presentation skills, winners will be awarded cash prizes. This competition is open to in-
ternational students. For more 
information and to register, please visit graduateschool.ufl.edu/about-us/events/3mt/.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.
org. To request publication 
in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event be-fore 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events, and keep them to 150 
words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 107
HIGH  77° LOW  57°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloMONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer  
Six UF student teams shared their plans 
to make the world sustainable at UF’s One 
World conference Friday.
UF’s Challenge 2050 held its second an-
nual conference to address the fact that the world’s population is projected to exceed 9.6 billion by 2050. Students, called the Solu-tion Six, presented their plans in the Univer-sity Auditorium to combat possible effects of 
overpopulation such as lack of food, climate 
change and the need to grow better crops.
The six teams spoke about education 
reform, reversing global warming and hu-
manitarian work. About 300 people attended 
the event, with students coming and going throughout the day.
Presenters were chosen out of about 70 
students who submitted videos explaining 
their ideas. Each of the ﬁ  nalists received 
$500 to continue work on their projects, which included business models and re-search to make the world more sustainable.
A panel of six judges chose the most inno-
vative idea to receive $1,500, said Anthony Andenoro, the director of Challenge 2050.
Avalon Hoek Spaans, a UF environmental 
science junior, and Audrey Batzer, a 20-year-old UF environmental science sophomore, won the contest with their presentation on 
combating climate change. 
The two pitched their company, Ferns for 
Feed, which would promote the growth of azolla, a fern that absorbs more carbon from 
the atmosphere than other plants. They want to use the plant as fertilizer, feed and to re-
verse global warming.  
The two students talked about natural so-
lutions to pollution, rather than technologi-
cal advances.
“Why have we forgotten about nature when talking about these problems?” Batzer said.
Hoek Spaans said they will use the prize 
money to continue research and patent their company, which is still in the planning stag-es. She said they struggled with pitching that the company could work in the business 
world.
“We don’t really have a background in 
business,” the 20-year-old said.
Andenoro said students who weren’t se-
lected to speak could still participate in the conference. Before the student speeches be-
gan, organizations from UF, the Gainesville community and the nation had booths edu-cating students about sustainability and how 
they can help.
“I think a lot of students want to be in-
volved,” he said. “But they don’t know how 
to be involved or what to do.”
Marissa Cassaway, a UF neuroscience 
freshman, said she attended the conference to watch her friend, Hoek Spaans, speak.
“I started tearing up,” the 19-year-old 
said. “I’m just so proud of her.”
She said it was inspiring to learn about 
other UF students’ ideas.
“It’s really interesting to see where one 
thought can go and how impactful it can be,” Cassaway said. “After this, I deﬁ  nitely want 
to get involved.” 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgUF hosts conference on sustainability, growing population
The winning team received $1,500
Katelyn Newberg / Alligator Staff
Audrey Batzer, left, and Avalon Hoek Spaans, both 20-year-old UF environmental science 
students, receive a $1,500 prize for having the most innovative idea at UF’s One World conference.
Dave Kratzer, the vice president for Student 
Affairs, also spoke about the work that went into completing the Reitz.
Myra Morgan, UF’s director of external re-
lations, was surprised with a bouquet of or-
ange flowers when it was announced the Stu-
dent Activities and Involvement office will be called the Myra Morgan Center for SAI. Funds to rename it were raised by the community.  
Leftover money will be used for a schol-
arship for UF students who attend graduate school at UF.
Rachel Fishman, who graduated in 2014 with a bachelor’s degree in animal sciences, came back to check out the finished product.
“I’m actually surprised they finished it 
when they did,” the 23-year-old said. “I’m happy I got to see the final results.”
When it came time  to cut the ribbon, seven 
of the speakers stood together, posed for pic-tures with gold scissors as long as their arms 
and cut the blue ribbon. Eddie Daniels, the di-
rector of the Reitz Union, pumped his fist into the air with a grin after the ribbon was cut. 
Students, faculty and friends streamed into 
the Reitz’s officially-opened entrance with cheers and claps.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org
“This is something that can 
make (UF) more noticed than it al-
ready is,” Schwartz said.
He said students who worked 
on the NaviGator, as well as other 
projects he supervises, learn a lot from working in the Machine Intel-ligence Lab.
“A lot of the guys at my lab, 
they leave and get whatever job they want,” he said.
He said students have submit-
ted submarines to Robotx challeng-es in previous years. Last year, a submarine won second place. Over the last 18 years, students have claimed first place three times.
“It’s a great job to be an engi-
neer,” he said.
Andy Gray, the student lead of 
the lab and a 32-year-old second-year electrical and computer engi-neering graduate student, said he learned a lot by working in the Ma-chine Intelligence Lab. 
“Traditionally in class you’re 
taught the theory, but with this, you take it to the next level,” he said.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016
CAMPUS
By Maddie Haist
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Smathers Libraries will 
educate students and faculty about using other people’s pho-tographs, books and journals this week.
The Fair Use Week, which 
starts today, will teach students about using copyrighted images and include a seminar about us-ing copyrighted materials or ma-terials made by another person. This is the first time the week will try to include students in the dis-cussion, said Christine Fruin, the scholarly communications librar-ian at Library West.
In past years, seminars have 
been given to faculty, she said.
Under fair use, an item is pro-
tected under federal law and indi-viduals can use the works if they cite the creator, Fruin said.Fair use allows students to use 
images in their papers and profes-sors to use passages from text-books in their lectures, she said. If materials are cited, students and professors can use them without asking permission or paying.
“We want to encourage faculty 
to make use of fair use because it can enhance and really benefit their teaching,” Fruin said. “We definitely want to encourage stu-dents to use it.”Maria del Mar Navarro, a visit-
ing assistant professor in the UF graphic design program, said she uses fair use to put images in her lectures.
To teach design, Navarro said 
students need to see the works of 
others to understand concepts. 
She said fair use enables her to use these examples.
“It would be impossible to 
teach without studying other works,” she said.
UF’s libraries open Fair Use Week to studentsTODAY:
• There will be a table with 
information at the Library West colonnade from noon to 1 p.m.
WEDNESDAY:
• There will be a table with information at the Marston Science Library entryway from 11 a.m. to noon.
• Workshop: Can I Use That? Fair Use for Teaching at 
Marston Science Library, 
Room 136, from 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m.
The team will travel 
to Hawaii to compete
About 200 people attended
THE ELECTIONS COMMISSION 
RULED IMPACT COULDN’T 
TAKE DOWN THE VIDEO.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Elections Commission heard nine 
out of 48 complaints from Impact Party, 
Access Party and UF’s Supervisor of Elec-
tions on Friday morning.
With four members present, the com-
mission listened to representatives from 
Access and Impact debate complaints 
about violations of election codes during 
the Spring 2016 Student Government elec-tion cycle.
The two parties bickered about a com-
plaint Impact submitted against Access 
regarding the “Not My System” video, 
which was posted to Facebook on Feb. 14.
Impact campaign manager Blake Mur-
phy argued Sabrina Philipp, who led the 
Not My System movement, is affiliated 
with Access.
Murphy said Philipp appeared in a pic-
ture with Access members at an event, which he presented. He said he wanted 
Access to take responsibility for the video 
and take it down.
“I think it sets a very dangerous prec-edent that any party member can go out-side the official page and make some sort of shell page,” Murphy said.          
Access Party President Praveen Vara-
nasi disagreed.    
“You shouldn’t be stifling free speech,” 
Varanasi said. “The fact that she is asking us questions means she’s calling out Stu-
dent Government as a whole.”
The commission unanimously decided 
Philipp was an affiliate of Access, but they 
couldn’t ask her to take down the video because it wasn’t their place.
A written statement saying she broke 
election codes was issued against Philipp for not registering campaign materials with the Supervisor of Elections. It will be 
posted on SG’s website.
All complaints submitted by Access 
were dismissed. 
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgImpact claims Access 
responsible for ‘Not My System’ video production
Courtesy to the Alligator
NaviGator, a self-steering boat built by a team of 10 UF students, cruises on Lake Wauburg on Satur-
day. Built at the UF Machine Intelligence Lab with a $250,000 grant, the boat senses its environment using radar and makes navigational decisions based on what it detects.BOAT,  from pg 1REITZ,  from pg 1
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
From left, UF President Fuchs, Reitz Union Executive Director Eddie Daniels, Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines, Reitz expansion project member Sarah Frick, former UF President Bernie Machen, former Student Body President Jordan Johnson and Vice President for Student Affairs Dave Kratzer cut the ceremonial ribbon at the grand reopening of the Reitz Union on Saturday.“The fact that she is asking us 
questions means she’s calling out 
Student Government as a whole.”
Praveen Varanasi
Access Party PresidentBy Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
After about $2 million and a year of renova-
tions, Bo Diddley Community Plaza will reopen 
Thursday.
The Gainesville Community Redevelopment 
Agency renovated the plaza’s north side, said program manager Nathalie McCrate.
She said workers lowered the height of 
planters, trimmed overgrown trees and moved a bus stop — all to improve the view from Uni-versity Avenue. 
“It feels more spacious than before,” Mc-
Crate said.
Away from the community’s sight, enter-
tainers gained space with the addition of a green room.
The performers will also have a kiosk to use 
for merchandise sales. On both sides of the ki-osk, two marquees will advertise events. 
McCrate said a map of downtown 
Gainesville will accompany the advertisements. 
“People that are new to Gainesville can find 
the best places to go,” she said.
Behind the stage, four individual walls of streaming water face University Avenue. Mc-Crate said the walls can be changed to 250 color 
combinations.“We could do orange and blue for football 
days or green for St. Patrick’s Day,” she said.
An empty cafe space, built in the same brick style as the kiosk and stage, was also added on 
the plaza’s north side. Patticakes, a cafe that 
sells coffee and baked goods, might move into 
the new building by summer, McCrate said.
She said the CRA spent about $1.8 million 
on the project. 
“The work that CRA did was phenomenal,” 
Steve Phillips, the director of Gainesville’s Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs, said. “We did our part to retouch other parts of the park.”
Phillips said PRCA additionally spent about 
$155,000 on other renovations, such as stage lighting and acoustics. 
“(The plaza) is such a nice place in the 
middle of town where people can go to enjoy 
themselves,” he said. 
The plaza will have a pre-opening event   
Thursday from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. with a con-
cert by soul musician and Gainesville native 
Charles Bradley. Normal hours will resume 
March 1 and a ribbon-cutting cerimony will be held March 10.
@merylkornfield 
mkornfield@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
$1.8 million Bo Diddley Plaza renovations near completionGabrielle Calise / Alligator
MAKING A CHANGE
Jack Cheney, a UF marketing freshman, levels out dirt by the playground at Marjorie Kinnan Rawl-
ings Elementary School on Sunday. The 18-year-old volunteered as part of a landscaping team during Project Makeover. 
IT’S A PROGRAM TO 
TEACH ADULTS HOW 
TO READ.
By Janiece Sebris
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Alachua County Library 
District is seeking volunteers to 
help adults who struggle with 
reading and spelling.  
Tim Conway, CEO of Neuro-
development of Words, or NOW!, 
said a woman came to the pro-gram resolved to end her life if 
she did not learn how to read. 
Conway said in this case, the 
program went beyond its educa-
tional role. 
It changed the woman’s out-
look on life throughout six tutor-ing sessions, and possibly saved her life.  
“Adults who struggle with 
reading, that’s not an easy call to make — saying, ‘I need help,’” said Theresa Sterling, the liter-acy coordinator for the Alachua County Library District.Sterling said the district is 
looking for volunteers ages 25 and older who will be trained at Headquarters Library, situated 
at 401 E. University Ave., from 
March 8 to March 24.The training is free for volun-
teers, she said, and they do not need prior teaching or tutoring experience. 
Conway, along with a team of 
professional development teach-
ers from his corporation, will 
train volunteers in the Story-woods Room and Meeting Room B.
The library district partnered 
with Conway’s NOW! Founda-tions of Speech, Language, Read-ing and Spelling to offer the train-ing, Sterling said. She meets with adult learners 
one-on-one, then matches them with a compatible literacy volun-teer. 
The volunteers then meet with 
learners twice a week and use a 
hands-on approach to learning.
Conway said the program is 
not just about how to read or 
spell.
“That lack of reading skills 
really has a big impact on folks’ overall belief in themselves,” he said. Alachua Library District seeks volunteers for literacy programLOCAL
By Ashleigh Braun
Alligator Contributing Writer
Art and science will find a place 
on the same stage Tuesday.
The Gainesville First United 
Methodist Church will host the 
Crossroads Project: Rising Tide 
from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. — the interna-
tional project’s debut in Gainesville.
Musicians and artists will col-
laborate to show the relationship between humans and the Earth’s sustainability, said Robert Davies, a physicist and educator at Utah State University. People can reserve tick-ets for the free event on the Event-
brite website.
Davies said he started the proj-
ect to help people form an emotion-
al connection to science. He collab-orated with the Fry Street Quartet to develop the performance.
“Each chapter is a form of a po-
etic science lecture, combined with very compelling imagery, then fol-lowed by a movement of music by a string quartet that serves as a con-
templative space for the informa-
tion and imagery you’ve just seen,” Davies said.
In May, Aaron Colverson said 
he started an effort to bring the project to Gainesville.
Colverson, a UF musicology and 
ethnomusicology graduate student, said he hopes the event will help 
people gain an understanding of 
how their actions impact the Earth.
“It can cause a greater ability to 
reflect upon a daily routine and ha-bitual actions,” he said.
Liza Allison, a 22-year-old UF 
tourism and recreation senior, said the event conveys an important message.
“For those of us that live at the 
top of the food chain, it doesn’t nec-essarily feel like being on the edge, but yet here we are,” she said.Free show promotes 
sustainability and art 
“That lack of reading skills 
really has a big impact 
on folks overall belief in 
themselves.”
Tim Conway
CEO of Neuro-development of 
WordsAndres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Pictured is the renovated Bo Diddley Community Plaza, featuring a new cafe, new 
stage lighting and artificial turf. On Feb. 25, soul singer Charles Bradley will take to the stage to perform.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTraveling during 
the school year 
is a must
As college students, it’s easy to become myopic in our pri-
orities: When we’re contending with 15-credit-hour se-mesters, involvement in various extracurricular endeav-
ors and looming exams while trying to maintain our 
sanity and questionably healthy bodies, it can become 
easy to forget that we need to LIVE from time to time. When operating in this fashion, “no” can become a very easy word to 
throw around. “No,” as in, “No, as much as I love you and val-
ue your friendship, I can’t make it out to that conference where you’ll be delivering a speech, as I have to schedule the next two weeks worth of Facebook posts for *insert student organization of choice here.*” Or “no,” as in, “I know it’s your birthday week-
end and you’ll be throwing a decadent ‘Broad City’-themed party 
in your own honor, but no, I can’t make it to Orlando on account of, well, my accounting exam ﬁ  ve days afterward.”
We get it, readers: As a news-oriented publication that prints 
on a daily basis, we’re all too familiar with pressing deadlines, having to consider future obligations we have no idea may be waiting in the wings, and having to drop everything at a mo-ment’s notice to ensure the paper is up-to-date and timely. But we also know that all work and no play makes the Alligator a 
dull publication. While we may not be hosting drug-fueled dance 
parties in our soon-to-be-vacated ofﬁ  ce — although there’s no time like the present — we’d like to think we have a solid grip on letting loose when the demands of work necessitate such actions.
Along this line of logic, we’d like to propose a not-so-radical 
idea: Get the hell out of Gainesville from time to time. Don’t get us wrong, we love this city: whether it’s the vast and gorgeous landscape offered by Paynes Prairie, the giggle-inducing idiocy that can be observed at Midtown or the lovable chain smoking 
weirdos of downtown, Gainesville is far from lacking in entertain-
ment, culture and other socially-fulﬁ  lling ventures. That being said, as students who reside in and along the university, we’re pretty hard-pressed to spend a single day in Gainesville without 
passing that iconic and easily-identiﬁ  able gothic architecture of 
the main campus and/or the various satellite campuses; As relax-ing as it is to spend a day at Lake Wauburg, you’re still going to see a sign denoting it’s UF property before you ever dip your toes in the water.
Relaxation and relief — or at least EFFECTIVE relaxation — 
should not be on the terms of the very institution that’s causing your stress in the ﬁ  rst place. Getting out of Gainesville means school can actually become out of mind and out of sight, an all 
but impossible prospect in Gainesville. May we suggest Talla-
hassee, where their house parties — at least of the non-Greek variety — wipe the ﬂ  oor with ours. If you’re trying to drunkenly debate the merits of the inﬂ  uence of Tumblr on modern art before getting the best soul food you’ve ever had as a hangover cure, 
perhaps Savannah, Georgia, home to the Savannah College of Art 
and Design, will prove a refreshing alternative.
Just because being a college student is demanding doesn’t 
mean one should ignore their internal imperative to enjoy them-
selves. Overused quotes about traveling broadening the mind 
and the soul aside, it’s a hell of a lot of fun, too.Scattered thoughts: Scalia, Cruz, checks and balances
When I ﬁ  rst saw the Politico breaking 
news alert informing me of the death of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia last week, I felt like someone punched me in the gut. For conserva-
tives in the U.S., Scalia was more than an intellec-tual, consequential jurist and opera buff — Scalia was someone who championed the Constitution and our founding principles to their rightful ex-tremes. The news of his death was tough for me. 
In the middle of the 20th century, the Su-
preme Court was ﬁ  lled with justices who, in essence, made up Constitutional rights, the product of interpreting a “living Constitution.” Scalia quickly changed that. He advocated an 
original — and in my humble opinion, correct — interpreta-
tion of our founding document. Constitutional rights come from the principles our founders prescribed in the docu-ment. If there’s an issue that’s not expressly dealt with in the document, let the political process address it, not the judiciary. Not only that, but Scalia also played the long game well. I’d say his legacy doesn’t lie with his Supreme Court majority opinions. Truth be told, he was not a justice who was consensus-minded. He tended to have a my-way-or-
the-highway judicial outreach. His dissents are more well-
known than his majority opinions.   
Scalia helped set up more than 200 Federalist Societies in 
law schools across the country that preach the gospel of ju-dicial restraint and original interpretation — ensuring origi-nalist thoughts will be preserved for generations to come. He also wrote his opinions for law students, again ensuring his views are preserved with new lawyers.
America lost a lion on the Supreme Court. Scalia was one 
of the greatest Supreme Court Justices in history — a fact that cannot be disputed. He will be missed, but not forgot-ten.
As a person who has actually read the Constitution, I 
can’t ﬁ  nd the section that says Congress must conﬁ  rm the nominations of the President. So, I’m not persuaded by the argument that Congress must reﬂ  exively do everything Obama says. Congress doesn’t have to entertain Obama’s Court pick. And do you know who agrees with me? President Obama, or to be more precise, Sen. Obama. He not only voted against conﬁ  rm-ing Chief Justice John Roberts to the court, but he also ﬁ  libustered Justice Samuel Alito’s con-
ﬁ  rmation. Obama sounds like a Congressional 
Republican to me.  
President Obama and Sen. Obama disagree 
with each other. But in the last year of his presi-dency, this isn’t the ﬁ  rst time he differed with himself. The fact of the matter is, Congressional 
Republicans don’t have to conﬁ  rm or hear Obama’s nomi-nation. It’s not gridlock; it’s checks and balances. It’s pre-scribed in the Constitution. I would hope our Constitutional 
law professor-in-chief would know this by now. But then 
again, he might have changed his mind.
Like many college students and young people, I like read-
ing right-leaning opinion magazines. Publications like Na-tional Review, National Affairs and The Weekly Standard give fantastic arguments and analyses of today’s news and events. They also give historical perspective.
A common feature of all of these magazines is a desire to 
get behind a rock-ribbed conservative presidential nominee. 
Someone like a Barry Goldwater or a Ronald Reagan. Some-
one who is conservative to the bone and champions free markets and a small federal government.
For some, Ted Cruz is this conservative. He has success-
fully defended the Constitution in the Supreme Court and champions conservatism. I don’t think many of my liberal friends appreciate how good Ted Cruz is on paper, policy-wise. His theatrics and presentation could be better. But I have to say I agree with his views on a majority of issues. 
Not only that, but I also know he will be a conservative lion 
in the White House.
In an age in which sort of self-loathing “conservatives” 
— McCain and Romney — win the nomination crown, I’m happy to see a person like Cruz resonating with a lot of vot-ers.
Michael Beato is a UF political science senior. His column 
appears on Mondays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
On Feb. 9, David Joseph, an 
unarmed African-Amer-ican teen, was killed by a police officer in Austin, Texas. Joseph, a student 
at Premier High School, had plans to further his education in college this coming Fall. Joseph is just an-other victim of a larger national trend that needs to be reversed. In 2015, 224 unarmed Americans lost their lives at the hands of police, of which 57 percent were African-American or Latino. While it is important to recog-
nize that police officers have a dangerous 
job, it is also important to realize they take an oath to serve and protect their commu-nity. Killing unarmed citizens is a violation of that oath. Police departments across the nation are currently reforming their policies to reduce excessive use of force by reforming their training to focus more on de-escalation tactics. Whether this will successfully change 
the perception of police officers from one of 
warriors to one of guardians has yet to be known.
Some people believe stressing individual 
instances of excessive use of force trivial-izes the work of an officer. They point to the numbers released by the Bureau of Justice Statistics that indicate only 0.5 percent of the 44 million Americans who interacted with a 
police officer suffered threats or experienced 
force. But statistics like these miss the point. Relations with the police in communities of color have always been strained by the his-tory of brutality. Contemporary instances of police brutality reinforce this strained rela-tionship. White Americans, unaware of this history, are eager to write them off as iso-lated incidents, rather than acknowledging 
modern-day discrimination.
Police training is problematic: Currently, 
training focuses too much on firearm skills 
and omits vital exposure to non-lethal weap-ons and conflict management. The median time of basic recruit training is 18 weeks, not counting field training. Nationally, police departments spend an average of 60 hours on firearms training and 44 hours on self-de-
fense. Less deadly weapons, like Tasers, can 
be alternatives to guns. But agencies only provide an average of eight hours of train-ing for Tasers, which is only 25 percent of the necessary training required, according to manufacturers.
The ability to defend oneself is an impor-
tant skill for a police officer to have. But the emphasis on firearm skills and self-defense should not compromise the train-ing on mediation skills and con-flict management. Police depart-ments only offer an average of eight hours in mediation skills. 
Moreover, only 39 percent of 
agencies mandate that all officers go through conflict management training. The importance of con-flict management cannot be un-derestimated. Police officers need to have the necessary training and 
knowledge to manage their emotional and physiological reactions, particularly in high 
stress situations.
Instead of viewing police officers as guard-
ians of a community, the rhetoric around the 
police often revolves around a warrior im-age. The political discourse during the so-called “War on Drugs” painted police officers as foreign occupiers in communities where they waged an everlasting battle against the enemy, which included all residents. But this 
warrior mentality obscures an important part 
of policing: the interaction between police of-ficers and the community. People care more about how they are treated by the police than about falling crime rates. When a po-lice officer views himself as a guardian, he or she cares not only about reducing crime but also protecting the residents. King County in Washington state developed the LEAD model 
to supplant the warrior mentality. Under this 
model, office training emphasizes listening and explaining the decision-making process to residents. The key of the LEAD model lies in diverting drug offenses into social services instead of relegating them to the criminal jus-tice system.
Policing in the U.S. drastically changed 
during the 1980s as the War on Drugs 
ramped up. New York’s Rockefeller Drug 
Laws and “broken windows” policy lead to a crackdown on crime while also hurting the communities where many police officers worked. These zero-tolerance policies should be eliminated. Innocent, unarmed civilians are losing lives because of the lack of training in the de-escalation process. Although po-lice departments are starting to reform their 
policies, many years of history cannot be 
erased solely by policy change. It takes time for these wounds to heal. Only when police officers see themselves as part of the com-munities they operate in rather than enemy combatants can America end police brutality.
A version of this column by David Gutier-
rez originally ran in the Harvard Political Review.
Why police training must be reformed UWire
With all the new spaces 
opening in the Reitz Union this past week, 
UF has shown, as it 
strives for preemi-
nence, it doesn’t just look at what salaries its graduates get, but also 
how its students — particularly 
minorities — feel on campus.
While UF doesn’t necessar-
ily have an ideally inclusive climate, it has these spaces, which represent a step in the 
right direction that many universities have 
yet to take. Part of the Reitz expansion was the new Multicultural and Diversity Af-fairs offices. Now UF has two spaces for 
Hispanic Latinx and black students respec-
tively, which is a first. These spaces serve as a celebration for all that those commu-nities accomplished — with the Hispanic Enrichment Center, affectionately called La 
Salita, showing off a timeline of influential 
members of their community (including our current Student Body President, Joselin Padron-Rasines). 
Student organizations can showcase 
their accomplishments on the Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs’ shelves. More commonly, it’s a place where students can just come and study while listening to the 
Disney instrumentals that play softly in the 
background. 
Even though minority enrollment is 
probably a lot better at UF than when the 
university was founded in 1853, it still has 
a long way to go. UF is still very white. These spaces could show prospective mi-nority students that they have a place on campus in the form of a university office.
Preeminence is not just about having 
the latest scientific research or having the highest-paid graduates — it’s also about remembering the students you have and 
that minority communities need their own 
spaces. Being a top-10 institution needs to mean being inclusive of marginalized iden-tities and promoting advocacy and educa-tion about minority issues on campus.
The $70.7 million renovation wasn’t just 
about creating the social stairs or a new orange and blue, but it was also about centrally locating MCDA’s space so many of the things that 
draw more LGBTQ+ students 
and students of color could be found in a more convenient loca-tion. By locating so many differ-
ent offices in the same building, 
they have made the Reitz a cul-turally essential part of campus. 
As a student who came to UF while con-
struction was still going on, I always saw 
the student union as an out-of-the-way 
place with a food court and an overpriced bookstore. I never thought the construction was going to end, nor would the Reitz ever 
be fully open. 
Now the Reitz has so much more to offer: 
MCDA, instead of being located in Peabody 
Hall, where the offices were quite difficult to visit if you were looking at the campus 
as a prospective student, is now located in 
the busiest part of campus with thousands of students and prospective students walk-ing past each day. Its inclusion in the Reitz serves as a reminder of its importance.
As an MCDA Ambassador myself, I’m 
optimistic for how this can bring the issues of minority students to the forefront of our discussions. 
Yes, APIA and LGBTQ+ students had 
spaces in the past, but they were hard to find and many people did not know about them. Even if they did, there was limited space in them. Now the MCDA can serve as a place where communities can thrive 
within the heart of campus itself. 
Nicole Dan is a UF political science 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mon-days.Location of new MCDA office shows 
UF is making diversity a priorityColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgDavid 
Gutierrez
UWire
“Its inclusion in 
the Reitz serves as 
a reminder of its 
importance.”MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016
By Luis T orres
Sports Writer
Alex Faedo doesn’t have the star 
power of Florida’s other starting 
pitchers, Logan Shore and A.J. Puk. 
He isn’t as polished as Shore and he 
doesn’t have Puk’s power arm. 
However, it was Faedo who was 
the best of the three in the Gators’ 
season-opening series against Florida 
Gulf Coast. The sophomore tied his career-high with seven strikeouts over 5.2 innings, allowing just four hits and one run as the No. 1 Gators 
swept the Eagles 12-3 on Sunday at 
McKethan Stadium.
Being the Sunday pitcher on the 
opening weekend, Faedo went to the 
mound anxious to ﬁ  nally get his sea-
son started. 
“I was antsy. But we’ve been 
antsy for a long time now,” Faedo said. “It was getting used to it. Today 
was a just a good day. It’s easy when 
we’re winning.” 
If he was feeling nervous, the 
Tampa native didn’t show it. Faedo mowed down Florida Gulf Coast (0-3) through the ﬁ  rst four innings, including a 10-pitch inning in the fourth frame. 
In the ﬁ  fth, the sophomore right-
hander ran into trouble. After hitting Corey Fehribach with a pitch, Ryan Shinn singled before Faedo got Kyle Gilbert to pop out to second. 
Nick Blasucci then hit an RBI dou-
ble down the right-ﬁ  eld line, cutting the Gators’ lead to 4-1.
And after falling behind in the 
count 2-1 to FGCU’s Gage Morey, UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan visited Faedo on the mound. 
“I just felt at that point he was 
still upset with himself with the hit 
by pitch,” O’Sullivan said. “The thing 
about Alex is that he’s a really, really competitive kid. … I think it was a learning experience for him and it’s 
just one of those things where you 
have to move on and the only thing important is the next pitch.” 
After falling behind 3-2 in the 
count to Morey, Faedo struck out the 
FGCU batter and let out a ﬁ  st pump and a roar to try and energize his 
teammates. 
“It was a good feeling,” Faedo 
said. “On Sundays, it’s been long for 
the week, defense is tired and every-
one is losing their legs so you try to amp them up a little bit.”
Faedo got all the run support he 
needed in the ﬁ  rst inning when Flor-
ida scored four runs. Freshman Dea-
con Liput put the exclamation point on the frame when he hit a two-run double to put the Gators out in front 
4-0. 
Florida (3-0) didn’t record another 
hit until the bottom of the seventh 
inning when the offense found its rhythm again. UF scored six runs on 
ﬁ  ve hits with Liput hitting another 
two-run double.
The freshman second baseman 
ﬁ  nished the game 2-for-2 with two 
walks and four RBIs to cap off a 
weekend where he hit .556 — going 5-for-9 — with seven RBIs. 
The Oviedo native wasn’t expect-
ing to have as much success as he did 
in his ﬁ  rst three games for the Gators.“I like having positivity going into 
every game but honestly, no. I really 
didn’t,” Liput said. “I’m really for-tunate that worked out. I just went 
up there and kind of keep the same 
mindset so it worked out.”
Redshirt sophomore Scott Moss 
sealed the win while making his ﬁ  rst career appearance after battling inju-
ries. The left-hander struck out two 
Eagles.  
“All in all, it was a great weekend 
against a really good Florida Gulf 
Coast team,” O’Sullivan said. “… We 
got a lot of work to do but we got a lot of things we can take from the weekend.” 
Florida is back in action tomor-
row, beginning a two-game set against Eastern Michigan, with Tuesday’s game in Gainesville and Wednesday’s in Lakeland. 
Junior pitcher Dane Dunning will 
draw the start on Tuesday. 
@LFTorresIII
ltorres@alligator.orgSeason-Opening Sweep
RIGHT:
UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan runs 
out of the dugout during team introductions prior to Florida’s 4-2 season-opening win. With the win, O’Sullivan, now in his ninth year as the Gators’ head coach, improved to 8-1 in season openers.
BELOW:
Logan Shore pitches during UF’s win on Friday. The Gators’ pitching staff gave up just nine runs (seven earned) over the weekend series.
Photos by Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Faedo, Liput power Gators to win over Eagles
Mark Ellis, a UF infielder from 1996-1999, talks with UF junior right-handed pitcher Dane Dunning after throwing out the ceremonial first pitch on Friday. Ellis and the rest of Florida’s 1996 team was honored prior to the game for the 20th-year anniverary of winning the SEC Championship and advancing to the program’s third College World Series.
UF second baseman Deacon Liput celebrates after stealing a base during Florida’s 8-4 win on Saturday. Liput ﬁ  nished the weekend with ﬁ  ve hits and a team-best seven RBIs.
Third baseman Jonathan India (center) celebrates with teammates after India hit a sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  y in the fourth inning of Florida’s 8-4 win on Saturday. India was one of three freshmen to start at least one game in the Gators’ opening weekend series against Florida Gulf Coast. Fan’s watch as UF’s Buddy Reed bats during Florida’s 12-3 win on Sunday. The announced attendance for Florida’s three games this weekend at McKethan Stadium was 14,570, a UF record for opening weekend attendance.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
For rent - 8/15/2016 to 8/14/2017. Private owner has 4 bedroom/4 private bathrooms, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer on bus route 1 mile from UF. ONE YEAR LEASE. $375/mo/room Call 352-586-6468    3-9-16-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
MR CHEAP ROOMClose to campus $180/mo.
Call Rob 375-8606                 2-25-5-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99995 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199996 Cadillac Deville $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Janitorial cleaner needed to service ar-
eas in morriston,williston,jonesville,and Gainesville... needs reliable transportation...weekly pay....call 352-214-0868 if interested   2-23-16-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Servers Needed...Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St      2-24-16-5-14
Server needed for busy Lisa's Corner Cafe. Some mornings & afternoons, 4-5 shifts/week. No nights. Exp pref. Own transporation. Energetic & depend-able. Train now. Server rate + tips ~$13-17/hr. Apply 1-4pm 125 NW 23rd Ave Ste #9.    2-25-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-9-16-10-16
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida men's golf team 
finished in third place at the SunTrust Gator Invitational.Read the story on pg. 15.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Dressel wins SEC Male Swimmer of the Year
On Sunday, UF sophomore Caeleb Dressel was named the 2016 
Southeastern Conference Male Swimmer of the Year. Behind Dressel, the UF men's swimming and diving team earned its fourth-straight SEC Championship.IT WAS UF'S SECOND LOSS TO 
THE BULLDOGS THIS SEASON.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Following Florida’s win over Vanderbilt 
on Thursday, head coach Amanda Butler 
referenced traveling to Athens on Sunday 
to take on Georgia.
Hearing Butler, freshman Eleanna Chris-
tinaki, a native of Athens, Greece, became 
excited.
But UF’s coach crushed her spirits when 
she told her there’s also an Athens in Geor-gia, and that the team would not be travel-ing to Greece. 
The difference between making the trip to her homeland and playing in a hostile road environment showed on Sunday, as Christinaki and the Gators were anything but right at home. And for the second time 
this year, No. 22 Florida fell to Georgia, 
this time 74-63. 
While Christinaki came into the game as 
UF’s leading scorer, junior Ronni Williams was UF’s leader on Sunday. Despite play-
ing just 22 minutes after picking up three 
fouls in the first quarter, Christinaki’s nine points were good for second on the team.
But it wasn’t just Christinaki who strug-
gled to get going. Aside from Williams’ team-leading 18 points, the normally po-tent UF offense was largely shut down by the Bulldogs. Florida women's basketball 
falls to Georgia in Athens By Brian Lee
Sports Writer 
In the top of the third inning in a 
scoreless game against Jacksonville 
State, senior Kelsey Stewart stepped up 
to the plate. 
A career .417 hitter heading into her 
final year, Stewart has been mired in an 
early-season slump, notching a meager 
four hits in 27 at-bats heading into Sun-
day. 
But in her second at-bat against pitch-
er Faith Sims, she ripped a solo home run — her first of 2016 and one of her three 
hits and two RBIs on the day. 
Bolstered by Stewart’s production, the 
No. 1 Gators (11-0) cruised to a 10-0 mer-
cy-rule victory over Jacksonville State 
(5-5) to complete a five-game weekend sweep of the Diamond 9 Citrus Classic 
tournament in Orlando. 
“It was good to see Kelsey get going,” 
coach Tim Walton said in a release. 
“She got into one today and I like to 
see that. I just like that she gets on base because when she does it makes it really 
difficult for other teams. She creates a lot 
of havoc out there as she’s super fun to watch.” 
Fortunately for the Gators, Stewart’s 
hitting struggles at the top of the lineup 
have been masked by a collective offen-
sive outburst. 
Outscoring its opponents 90-4, Florida 
has a better plus-minus differential than 
last year’s team, which had defeated its 
opponents by a combined score of 87-10 through 11 games. Stewart leads UF to tourney sweepBy Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Kevin O’Sullivan has tried to 
contain his excitement for fresh-man pitcher Brady Singer.
Florida’s head coach knows 
that 95-mph arms taken in the second round don’t often attend college, which is why he could 
only smile when he found out 
he’d be coaching Singer.
“It makes your job a hell of a 
lot easier,” O’Sullivan said.
In Saturday’s game started by 
Florida’s highly touted A.J. Puk, Singer took the mound in relief in the fifth inning and dazzled against Florida Gulf Coast in his 
Florida debut.
The Leesburg, Florida, native 
struck out his first batter with a 
tight-spinning slider that broke into the opposing batter’s box.
The next hitter became strike-
out victim No. 2 on a 95-mph two-seam fastball on the black. A few pitches later, he induced a 
weak fly ball to end the inning.
As outfielders Ryan Larson 
and Buddy Reed trotted back into 
the dugout together following the inning, Larson had to say some-
thing about Singer’s performance 
to Reed.
“I said, ‘he’s gonna be a dude,’” Larson said.
Larson defined a ‘dude’ as 
someone who has control of the game and “someone who comes 
in and you know nothing’s gonna 
happen.”
Larson was right.Singer went on to twirl three 
hitless innings while striking out three to capture his first career 
win.
Besides two hit batters on a 
couple sliders, the composed 
Singer was pleased with his first outing.“I felt good,” he said. “Pulled 
the slider a few times, but the fastball, everything felt good.”
And though his velocity dipped 
from its 94-95 range in his first in-ning down to the low 90s, Singer 
said he wasn’t worried. He settled 
down and worked on locating in the second and third innings.
“It was just maybe I had a little 
bit more adrenaline in the first in-ning,” Singer said.
O’Sullivan said between the 
movement on his pitches and his maturity level, there aren’t a lot 
of freshmen in college baseball 
like Singer.
“He’s different,” O’Sullivan 
said. “I’m just gonna be hon-
est with you…He’s not a normal 
freshman.”
Even back to watching Singer 
during his sophomore year at Eu-stis High School, O’Sullivan said 
Singer has always been gifted 
in the way he attacks the strike zone.
And O’Sullivan knows Singer 
will be crucial to his team’s suc-cess, whether it be out of the pen or starting.
“There’s a few guys you get 
every year that you go, ‘boy, if 
we get this guy this can really be 
a game changer,’” he said. “And he is. What else can I tell you?”
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org Singer starts freshman season strong for Gators baseball
He allowed no hits in debut
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 14 SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 14Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Brady Singer pitches during UF's 8-4 win over Florida Gulf Coast on Saturday at McKethan Stadium. 
SOFTBALLHowever, Sunday began quietly for the 
Gators’ offense through the first two in-
nings. 
Stewart’s home run to lead off the third 
opened the floodgates. 
"I'll tell you what," Walton said, "she's 
been hitting the ball well."
After sophomore Nicole DeWitt walked, 
freshman center fielder Amanda Lorenz stroked an RBI double.She then scored shortly after on a 
Janell Wheaton single to right field that put the Gators up 3-0. 
One of Florida’s most consistent hit-
ters, Lorenz went 8-for-13 with three RBIs and six runs scored in the tournament.
Florida continued its onslaught in the 
fourth, an inning that highlighted the Gators’ ability to score runs without the 
long ball. 
In this frame, UF batted around, col-
lected four hits and procured its third five-
run inning of the weekend. Following a leadoff bunt by junior Jus-
tine McLean, Stewart doubled into the gap in left-center. A single by DeWitt stretched the lead to 5-0. 
Despite a pitching change by Jackson-
ville State, Florida’s lead ballooned to 8-0 after an ensuing bases-loaded single by Janell Wheaton and a wild pitch. 
The Gators then added two more runs 
in the fifth to seal the win. 
In the circle, sophomore Aleshia Oca-
sio earned her third win of the season after pitching four shutout innings and striking out six. 
Florida next plays No. 8 UCLA at 8:30 
p.m. on Feb. 25 in the Mary Nutter Col-legiate Classic in Palm Springs, California.  
"As we evaluate our whole weekend 
we have a few things to clean up," Wal-ton said. 
"I think the main thing is to get back 
and do the things we need to do to re-
cover."
@brianlee_17
blee@alligator.org 
“You have to give Georgia a lot 
of credit,” Butler said in a release. 
“They played tremendous defense and they make you, if you’re not 
really diligent about what you’re 
doing, take compromising shots in really big moments and you can’t do that, especially on their home court.”
On the other side, two Bulldogs 
carried Georgia. 
Tiaria Griffin and Shacobia Bar-
bee scored 28 and 20 points re-
spectively, adding a combined 16 
rebounds and seven assists. Grif-fin was particularly accurate from three, knocking in 6-of-10 shots from beyond the arc. 
“We were mixing up our man 
and our zone (defense), which is something we typically do, espe-cially when there is one really, 
really impressive shooter that we 
are concerned with,” Butler said of her team’s defensive breakdowns. “They have very well-rounded players. We felt like in zone we 
could guard one person but obvi-
ously that was a poor decision.”
But those defensive break-
downs were not a glaring problem 
until the second half. 
In the first half, the Gators  
jumped out to a lead as large as nine and carried the lead into half-
time. 
Then in the second half, Griffin 
scored all six of her threes, which 
included Georgia’s first nine points 
of the fourth quarter.
Florida (20-7, 8-6 Southeastern 
Conference) sits even with Geor-gia (20-7, 8-6 SEC) in the confer-
ence standings. With two games 
left until the SEC tournament, the Gators’ chances at securing a first and second round bye — which 
goes to the top four seeds — are 
still very possible, with current 3-seed Mississippi State’s SEC re-cord sitting at 8-5. 
The first of those two games 
will be against LSU this Thursday in Baton Rouge against a Tiger team that lost to the Gators earlier this year. But as far as that game 
and the regular season finale hav-
ing any added significance, Butler wasn’t hearing of it.
“They are all must-win games. 
I really don’t like that term to de-
scribe a game” she said. 
“There isn’t a game we go into 
that we think, ‘we’ll it’s no big 
deal if we lose this one.’ They’re 
all big games.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016
SOFTBALL,  from pg 13Lorenz went 8-of-13 with three RBIs in weekend tournament
W-HOOPS,  from pg 13UGA's Griffin scored 28 points, including 18 from three-point range
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
Ronni Williams drives into the paint during Florida's 85-79 win over Kentucky on Jan. 31 in the 
O'Connell Center. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kelsey Stewart throws to first during UF's doubleheader sweep of Jacksonville on Feb. 17 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Aleshia Ocasio pitches during Florida's doubleheader sweep of Jacksonville on Feb. 17 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
For the second-straight year, 
the No. 5 Florida men’s golf team 
was stunned at home by No. 30 
South Florida. 
The Gators held a slim lead af-
ter the first day of competition at 
the SunTrust Gator Invitational at 
the Mark Bostick Golf Course, but 
the Bulls, led by the stellar play of junior Rigel Fernandes, made 
a charge during the final round, 
capturing the title for the second year in a row. 
USF’s 22-under-par score was 
the third-lowest team score in 
tournament history and gave the 
Bulls an eight-shot victory over second-place Vanderbilt (14 un-der). Florida finished in third at 
13 under par. 
USF’s Fernandes, who entered 
the final round two shots back of 
UF freshman Sam Horsfield, had an impressive day on the links. 
He fired a blistering 6-under 64, 
a round that included six birdies and no bogeys, to capture the in-dividual title at 13 under par. 
It was a long day for the 
Gators, however.
Horsfield, who fired a career-
low 63 in the opening round, struggled throughout the day. 
After making the turn at 1 over, 
Horsfield fought hard to pick things up on the back nine. How-ever, bogeys on the par-4 13th and par-4 16th would prove to be costly, carding an even-par 70 to place him in second alone. 
“I think I got off to a bad start 
like the rest of the team,” Hors-field said after the round. “I didn’t hit quite the shots I was looking for… Our start kind of hurt us a bit.”
The Gators did fight back, 
though.
Freshman Jorge Garcia, who 
opened the final round with three straight bogeys, birdied three holes on the back nine en route to a 1-under 69, finishing in a tie for 19th. Redshirt junior A.J. Crouch, 
who had three bogeys and a dou-
ble on the front nine, played his last four holes in 3 under to shoot a 2-under 68, placing him in 12th alone. Junior Ryan Orr finished the tournament at plus 3, giving him a share of 30th. 
“I’m really proud of the guys. 
They hung in there today,” Hors-field said. “We got off to a bad start, but I just felt like we could have let it go really easily, and we 
just kinda hung in there to play 
how we did.”
UF coach J.C. Deacon was 
pleased with the team’s fight 
throughout the day. He said he 
wants the team to use this loss as fuel for the rest of the Spring sea-son and to get the team to under-stand how great it can be.
“I think this is just the begin-
ning for the team,” Deacon said. “I’m actually really glad, to be honest… There’s a lot of positives 
for us this week individually and 
as a team.
“I can’t wait to build our plan 
together and figure out how we’re going to be great going forward.”
The Gators will have a few 
weeks of rest before they return to action on March 7 at the South-ern Highlands Collegiate in Las 
Vegas. Prior to taking the top job 
at Florida, Deacon served as an assistant coach at UNLV, his alma mater. 
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Jordan  McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sam Horsfield lines up a shot in the third round of the SunTrust Invitational on Sunday at UF’s Mark 
Bostic Golf Course. 
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Florida’s men’s tennis team was win-
less against opponents ranked in the top 15 
through its first six matches this season. The 
No. 23 Gators (4-3) continued that trend last 
weekend, falling to No. 6 Ohio State (12-1) for UF’s third loss in its last four matches. 
“I really like my team and believe we are 
on our way,” coach Bryan Shelton said in a release. “The margins are small between win-ning and losing these matches, so we’ll keep working to find that edge.”
Ohio State defeated Florida 4-3 at the 
Stickney Tennis Center in Columbus on Sun-day afternoon in a thrilling match that came down to a singles battle between UF’s Diego Hidalgo and OSU’s Mikael Torpegaard. Tor-pegaard took Hidalgo to three sets, ultimately 
coming out on top in a 7-6, 2-6, 6-2 win to 
seal the victory for the Buckeyes.
The Gators had an uncharacteristic start to 
their day, losing the doubles point of a match for only the second time this season. UF’s No. 
1-ranked pair of Hidalgo and Gordon Watson 
lost their first doubles set of the year, drop-ping to Torpegaard and Herkko Pollanen 6-3.
UF juniors Maxx Lipman and Elliott Orkin 
got off to a good start, taking a 2-0 lead early on in their bout with OSU’s Ralf Steinbach and Martin Joyce. However, Steinbach and Joyce would win six of the final eight games 
against Lipman and Orkin, clinching the set 
6-4 and giving Ohio State an early 1-0 lead over the Gators. 
Florida would then move on to play in its 
most competitive series of singles matches so far this year, with four of the six matchups going to a decisive third set.
Watson was the first UF player to finish 
play, falling to Steinbach 6-1, 6-4 and giving 
the Buckeyes a 2-0 lead.
Florida would then come back to tie the 
score at 2-2 when freshman Alfredo Perez 
won his match over Chris Diaz 6-2, 7-5 and 
Orkin finished off Hugo Di Feo 1-6, 6-2, 6-4.
After two more three-set victories from the 
Buckeyes’ Joyce and the Gators’ Chase Perez-
Blanco, the score was knotted up at 3-3 with one more match still to finish.
The No. 5-ranked Torpegaard squared 
off with Hidalgo on Court One, splitting the first two sets of the match in a back and forth fight. With both teams cheering on their 
teammate from the sidelines, Torpegaard 
would ultimately get the best of Hidalgo be-hind multiple service aces in the final set to clinch a 4-3 Ohio State win.
The Gators return to Gainesville to take on 
Florida State on Saturday at 1 p.m. Follow-ing the match against FSU, the Gators kick off SEC play with matchups scheduled against LSU on March 4 and Texas A&M on March 6.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org Gators men’s tennis drops road match to Ohio State
TORRES IS TIED FOR SECOND 
PLACE INDIVIDUALL Y. 
By Alfredo Morales 
Sports Writer 
After a well-deserved break, the Florida 
women’s golf team took to the road yet 
again. 
This time, its destination was New Or-
leans to compete in this year’s Allstate Sug-ar Bowl Intercollegiate tournament. The No. 11 Gators teed off Sunday morn-
ing against 16 other teams, including five top-25 teams, and finished in a tie for third with Tulane with a team score of even par after Round 1.
“I’m happy to be in the hunt of the tour-
nament after the first day,” UF coach Emily Glaser said in a release. “I saw a lot of good things from the team today.”
Junior Maria Torres was impressive in 
the opening round, finishing tied for second place at three under-par. She also finished without a single bogey and tied her collegiate-best mark of three birdies. 
Meanwhile, sophomore 
Taylor Tomlinson and ju-nior Karolina Vlckova tied 
for 14th at even par, and  freshman Sam Wagner and junior Kelly Grassel 
tied for 38th and finished three over-par. 
Florida trails No. 12 Arizona and No. 13 
Oklahoma for the tournament lead at 1-un-der par, while Torres finished the opening round just one stroke short of Stanford’s Lauren Kim on the individual leaderboards.
UF will tee off Round 2 at 9 a.m. “We played solid on some of the chal-
lenging stretches of the course, and I thought we managed pretty well,” Glaser said. “The forecast is not great for the next couple days, so focus and toughness will be 
our main goal.”
@amorales_95 
amorales@alligator.org
UF women’s golf sits in third after first round of tournamentMen’s golf falters in final round, finishes third in home tourneyUF has lost three of its last four
T orres
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016
Monday
 Women’s Golf @ Allstate Sugar 
Bowl Intercollegiate Golf 
Championship
Tuesday
 Baseball vs. Eastern Michigan - 7 
p.m.
 Men’s Basketball vs. Vanderbilt - 7 p.m. on SEC Network
 Women’s Golf @ Allstate Sugar Bowl Intercollegiate Golf Championship
Wednesday
 Baseball vs. Eastern Michigan in Lakeland - 7 p.m.
Thursday
 Women’s basketball @ LSU - 8:30 p.m. on SEC Network+
 Softball @ Mary Nutter Collegiate Classic - 8:30 p.m.Friday
 Women’s T ennis @ California - 4:30 p.m.
 Softball @ Mary Nutter Collegiate Classic - 6 p.m.
 Gymnastics vs. LSU - 6:45 p.m. on SEC Network
 Baseball @ Miami - 7 p.m. on ESPN3
 Track and Field @ SEC Indoor Championships on SEC Network+
Saturday
 Lacrosse vs. Dartmouth - noon
 Softball @ Mary Nutter Collegiate Classic - 12:30 p.m.
 Men’s T ennis vs. Florida State - 1 p.m.
 Baseball @ Miami - 7 p.m. on ESPN3
 Men’s Basketball @ LSU - 8:30 p.m. on ESPN
 Track and Field @ SEC Indoor Championships on SEC Network+
 IN THE HUNT
Center John Egbunu drives to the basket during Florida’s 61-55 loss to Alabama on Feb. 13 in the O’Connell Center. With UF’s 73-69 loss to South Carolina on Saturday, Florida dropped into a tie with Vanderbilt for 5th place in the SEC. The Gators play the Commodores at home tomorrow at 7 p.m.
Aaron Albright / Alligator StaffThis Week in UF Sports