We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 163 TUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016
Alligator Awards
Who was UF’s best coach of the 2015-16 season? 
Read our roundtable discussion, pg. 14
UF student designs bullet-resistant shield
He started a GoFundMe in early July, pg. 4
Band to play last Jewel Box concert of summer
Lonesome River Band will play downtown Friday, pg. 9Connect with us
Visit alligator.org or @thealligator on Twitter
CAMPUS
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer 
University Police arrested two 
freshmen football players Mon-
day morning after authorities 
said they shot at a dorm with a 
BB gun four days earlier. 
At about 6:45 p.m. Friday, 
Rick Wells and Tyrie Cleveland, 
both 18, shot at Building Four of the Keys Residential Complex, 
located across the street from 
James G. Pressly Stadium, while 
people were inside, according to 
a police report. 
About ﬁ  ve hours later, an of-
ﬁ  cer responded to a call about a shattered glass door and two shattered windows, which cost 
more than $1,000 in total, ac-
cording to the report. 
The ofﬁ  cer later watched a 
surveillance video and then in-
terviewed the men, who both 
said they shot at the building with a BB gun, which they gave 
to the ofﬁ  cer, according to the 
report. 
Police arrested Wells and 
Cleveland on charges of criminal 
mischief and ﬁ  ring a missile into 
a dwelling. Authorities took the 
men to the Alachua County Jail, 
where they were both released 
Monday afternoon on their own recognizance. 
Cleveland, a native of Jack-
sonville, was one of the nation’s 
most sought-after receivers and 
the top-rated pass catcher in 
Florida’s 2016 signing class. 
Wells, also from Jacksonville, 
is also among UF’s four fresh-men receivers in the 2016 class.
“This is not behavior that we 
expect and as I often talk about 
there will be consequences,” 
Coach Jim McElwain said in a 
statement.
@gsabella
gsabella@alligator.org  Two UF football players arrested on 
charges of criminal mischief
Wells
Cleveland
By Natalie Calvo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Soon, the days of students taking 
the bus to Archer Road to pick up toi-
let paper and groceries will be gone. 
Target announced it will open a 
new store next to UF’s campus next 
July, according to the company’s website.
For Ivy Santos, a UF art education 
freshman, the store will be within 
walking distance of where she lives at Buckman Hall. 
“I love Target,” the 17-year-old 
said. “It’s a long trip on the bus to Archer, and you have to worry about getting to the fridge fast enough so that your food won’t melt.”
The store will be across the street 
from Heavener Hall at The Standard, a new development that will also house a Chick-ﬁ  l-A and a Bento Cafe.
“The businesses forming within 
The Standard will bring us closer to our goal of 3,500 new jobs, $218 mil-lion in new salaries and $250 million in capital investment to Gainesville 
by 2020,” said Alyssa Brown, the 
director of communications and mar-keting for the Gainesville Chamber of Commerce.
The Target location will be 23,459 
square feet, compared to typical Tar-get stores at 130,000 square feet. This will be one of Target’s new “ﬂ  exible-format” stores, designed for spaces in 
college campuses and densely popu-
lated areas, Target spokeswoman Kristy Welker wrote in an email.
The store will include a Starbucks 
and a CVS Pharmacy, four blocks from the CVS at Social 28, which does not include a pharmacy. 
 Target to open store across the street from UF campusConnor Pace, who ﬁ  nished his ﬁ  rst year as a 
law student at UF last Spring, loved the water. 
His brother, Collier Pace, said their family 
visited the mountains in North Carolina every 
year. He said there was a river near the cabin that was just warm enough to swim in during the summer.
They would eat lunch by the river and watch 
the ﬁ  sh swim. Sometimes Connor would catch those ﬁ  sh, but not with a ﬁ  shing pole.
Collier, net in hand, would stand in the water 
and wait for a ﬁ  sh to swim by, Collier said. 
“Not too many people have the patience to do 
that,” Collier said.
He was 27 years old when he ﬁ  nished his 
ﬁ  rst year at the Levin College of Law, then 
working as an intern at Southern Legal Counsel 
in Gainesville. 
On June 23, Connor’s parents called  Gainesville 
Police after a week of not hearing from their son. When ofﬁ  cers visited his house, they discovered 
he was no longer there, according to an incident 
report.
His car was found in a parking garage in 
Savannah, Georgia, with his pets — a cockatiel, 
hedgehog and dog — inside. They were not 
injured or stressed, according to the report. 
On Friday, it was clear Connor’s life had ended 
when a ﬁ  sherman found his skeletal remains near Russ Point Boat Landing in South Carolina.
Connor — a man who enjoyed ﬁ  shing in the 
rivers of North Carolina or relaxing at Daytona Beach, where his family owns the Big Shark gift shop — was found in the kind of place he once 
found comfort. 
Capt. Bob Bromage of the Beaufort County 
Sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce said his cause of death is unknown,  In wake of 
tragedy, loved ones reminise 
By Jasmine Osmond 
Alligator Staff Writer
SEE EPILOGUE,  PAGE 4EPILOGUE
Zachariah Chou / Alligator 
ICE CREAM, YOU SCREAM
Customers crowd the inside of Sweet Dreams on Sunday, which was National Ice 
Cream Day. For more photos of Sweet Dream’s “Flavor Night” event, see page 3.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  93° LOW  72°
WHAT’S HAPPENING
Solve a murder mystery at the 
Florida Museum
Calling all super sleuths! Grab 
your magnifying glass, trench coat 
and detective hat, and get ready 
to solve an old-fashioned murder 
mystery at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History. In partner-
ship with UF Creative B and The Murder Mystery Company, join the museum on Aug. 3 for “Crime and Pun-ishment.” This interac-tive theater program lets attend-ees discover clues and play inves-tigator. Come dressed in 1920s 
attire, and be prepared to crack 
the case. It would be a crime to miss it. Doors open at 6 p.m., and the program starts at 7 p.m. Food will be served. Pre-registration 
is required for this adults-only 
event. Admission is $15 for the general public and $7.50 for UF students with their valid Gator 1 Card. For more information or to register, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/mur-
der-mystery or call 352-273-2061.
Calling for volunteers
We are seeking volunteers for a 
study about the complexity and 
usability of a web tool for tran-
scribing information about mu-seum specimens. The dates are July 21, July 25, July 28 and Aug. 1 from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. The 
location is Weil Hall, classroom 408A. The time commitment is 
one hour total. Volunteers will be presented with museum speci-men images and asked to tran-scribe or crop the values of cer-
tain fields. Want to participate? 
Sign up by emailing Icaro Alzuru at ialzuru@ufl.edu.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mgettenberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Alligator Staff, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto, 
  Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Britney Jenkins, Juan Londono, 
  Alexandra LeCras, Christian Mayorga,
  Caroline Rhoades, Jeffrey Romer, 
  Mathews Silva, Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 163
TUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Zachariah Chou / Alligator 
Owner Mike Manfredi chats with patrons during “Flavor Night” at Sweet Dreams on Sunday.
Zachariah Chou / Alligator 
Sweet Dreams celebrated National Ice Cream Day on 
Sunday with “Flavor Night, ” where it replaced its usual flavors with 35 non-traditional flavors, such as “Maple Bacon, ” “Pokeball” and “Avocado Pistachio. ”
Sweets and treats on National Ice Cream Day
Photos by Zachariah Chou  4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Andrew Bloomfield, 20, poses with his handmade bullet-resistant shield, which he 
is calling The Minuteman and selling through his GoFundMe page. “My goal for this shield is to create something that is effective and affordable so that it can be essen-tially mass-distributed to places that are targets in these kinds of scenarios, ” Bloom-field said. Prices would range from $200 to $300, he said.
TECHNOLOGY
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Staff Writer
Three days after the Pulse 
shooting in Orlando, Andrew 
Bloomfield noticed how much 
open space there was in his 
lecture hall.
“I was sitting down and I 
remember thinking, ‘If some-
body came in here right now, 
what am I going to do?’” he said.
The 20-year-old UF me-
chanical engineering junior 
said he could try to run or 
hide under the desk, but it would be like hoping for a miracle to save him.
Then, Bloomfield had an 
idea.
For nearly three weeks, he 
worked several hours a day to create a  prototype of The 
Minuteman, a foldable shield 
that would resist bullets if a shooting were to unfold. 
He said the prototype is 
made of AR500 steel, which is capable of stopping .308-cali-ber rounds, allowing residents to stay protected and prevent-ing criminals from misusing the shield. 
“The police and other 
agencies have .308 caliber armor-piercing rounds that would be able to punch through the steel,” Bloomfield said, “but regular bullets that 
you can go buy at a sporting 
goods store wouldn’t be able to penetrate that metal.”
On July 7, he created a 
GoFundMe page in hopes of raising $35,000 and making shields for the public. 
“All of the money is for 
getting the location for pro-
duction, the means of produc-
tion and the legal things taken care of so I can start mak-ing these on a large scale,” 
Bloomfield said.
Nathalie Perez, a 19-year-
old UF business and sociology 
sophomore, said people will likely be interested in Bloom-
field’s invention.
“There’s so much happen-
ing everywhere,” she said. 
“So people are scared, and 
fear is a great motivator, so 
that will really initiate what he’s trying to do.”
After seeing a July 7 You-Tube video of Bloomfield demonstrating the shield, 
Perez said the design looks 
sturdy. 
Her only suggestion: Make 
it weigh less. 
For now, Bloomfield said 
15 pounds is the lightest model he could create. “Essentially, I would like to have two mod-els: I would like to have one 
that is cheap, affordable and 
reliable at around 15 pounds, but also one that is extremely bare-bones and affordable at around 50 pounds,” he said.
Prices would range from 
$200 to $300, he said.
Bloomfield said people 
could carry the lighter shields 
in their cars or backpacks, 
and the heavier ones at bars and restaurants.
“I really want to protect 
people with this idea,” he 
said. “It’s really about making 
sure that these awful things that I keep seeing in the news never happen again.”
mandrade@alligator.orgAmid national shootings, student invents portable shield
but foul play is not suspected.
Lennette Daniels, a paralegal 
at Southern Legal Counsel where 
Connor interned, said he was 
dedicated to work and was loved in the office.
Virginia Poe, who met Connor 
when she was 3, said he was passionate about animals, especially his four pets, including a giant tortoise named Sarah.
“There used to be two (hedgehogs), but one got sick and had to be given medicine every 
two hours,” she said. “He had 
to wake up in the middle of the night to give this poor hedgehog medicine.” 
Poe said her friend was happy, and that he was proud of the work he was doing. After a rough 
patch as an undergraduate at the 
University of Central Florida, his life began to turn around. 
“Connor was someone that 
cared about social justice and equality and animals, and I think Connor would have done just 
about anything in his power to 
pursue the right thing,” she said.
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org
EPILOGUE,  from pg. 1His cause of death is currently unknown, likely no foul playTUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Jessica Rodriguez 
Alligator Staff Writer
While students enjoy shorter lines 
and more parking during the Summer 
term, UF’s clubs have to ﬁ  nd ways to keep attendance high with fewer people on campus. 
Lambda Theta Alpha, the ﬁ  rst multi-
cultural sorority on campus, is trying to keep a steady stream of people by host-ing Summer events, said Jordan Fulker-son, a 20-year-old UF criminology and law junior and a sister of the sorority.
Together with Latin fraternity Lamb-
da Theta Phi, the sorority hosted a pool party Saturday at Campus Lodge. 
For the Jewish organization Chabad, 
handing out free ice pops can get Sum-mer students to check out the group, said 21-year-old Raﬁ   Paris, a Montreal native who was helping the group’s rabbi. 
Finesse, the ofﬁ  cial dance team of the 
Black Student Union, still practices de-spite the lack of students in town, said Briana Williams, a 19-year-old UF junior.
“We still hold practice during the 
Summer,” she said. “We don’t have as many girls in practice, but we still per-form.”
Gator Civitan, a new organization 
that focuses on helping people with de-
velopmental disabilities, is using “Poke-
mon Go” to attract people by dropping “lure modules” after its informational meetings, said Vanna Yang, a 19-year-old UF exploratory sophomore.
“Social media and ﬂ  yering is the best 
way for us to promote,” she said.
 
@jesskorina
jrodriguez@alligator.org UF clubs push for 
attendance over Summer
UPCOMING EVENTS
CHABAD UF:
Pizza and Parsha When: Wednesday at 1:45 p.m. Where: The Hub
BLT - Bagels, Lox and Teﬁ  llin When: Sunday at 11 a.m. Where: Chabad UFGATOR CIVITAN:Summer Information SessionWhen: Wednesday at 5:15 p.m. 
Where: Reitz Union, 2340BUSINESS
By Ryan Serpico
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Alex Sunnarborg will have 90 
seconds to pitch his company to a 
crowd of about 400 investors, in-dustry experts and possible part-ners.
Sunnarborg, 25, graduated from 
UF in May 2013 with a degree in ﬁ  -nance. He is now a co-founder and the chief ﬁ  nancial ofﬁ  cer of Lawn-mower, an app for iPhone and An-droid that helps people learn about cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin, and invest in them. 
UF alumni founded two of the 10 startup companies participating in Wednesday’s New York Demo Day, with the other being CFX, an 
online service for investors.
Startupbootcamp FinTech, 
which also includes several UF 
alumni, hosts the event each year. The company runs a three-month 
program that accepts startups from 
the ﬁ  nancial technology industry 
and connects them to an interna-
tional network of investors and 
partners. 
The three-month program leads 
up to Demo Day, said 26-year-old 
Victoria Cacicedo, the head of the 
platform at Startupbootcamp Fin-Tech New York.
“It is a celebration of all the 
work that the teams have been do-
ing over the past three months,” 
Cacicedo said.
Cacicedo graduated in 2012 
with a degree in industrial and sys-tems engineering. 
Sunnarborg said that he and his 
other co-founders stayed in Florida 
until early 2015, when they de-
cided it was time to move to San 
Francisco and build Lawnmower in 
Silicon Valley. 
After Cacicedo called the com-
pany and suggested its founders 
join Startupbootcamp FinTech in the summer, Sunnarborg and his team then moved the startup to New York.
Sunnarborg said UF helped him 
and his team form connections and 
learn information that led to the 
creation of Lawnmower.   
“We still make UF and Gator 
jokes regularly in the ofﬁ  ce,” he said. “Gator Nation deﬁ  nitely con-
tinues to help.”
Cacicedo said the team’s status 
as UF alumni was simply an added bonus. 
“It’s because they have a solid 
team and a solid product,” she 
said. Startupbootcamp FinTech has 
helped push both the Lawnmower business and its app forward, Sun-
narborg said.
“They are really trying to let us 
leverage their network as best as 
possible,” he said. 
Following Demo Day, Sunnar-
borg said his team will likely stay in New York, building relation-
ships with similar companies and 
working with other cryptocurren-
cies, such as Ripple and Ethereum.
“Connections are what opens 
doors in business,” he said.  UF alumni to pitch startups at annual NY convention
Zachariah Chou / Alligator
SHAVING CREAM CHAOS
Students from the Inter-Residence Hall Association spray each other with shaving cream 
at the Yulee Pit on Sunday night. The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnSure, we have 
Pokemon, but...
Over the next week and a half, the political elite of both 
major parties will evolve themselves from the primaries to the general election. Afterward, the candidates will ready themselves for battle in the gym we call America, and the two political parties will find themselves, ac-
cording to The New York Times, $150 million in debt to the pri-vate entities (gym leaders) that will write checks for the conven-tions this year — all the more reason for our representatives to prioritize donors over constituents.
While the festivities transpire — yes, including the tidal wave 
of balloons (How do they get that many balloons? Do the two par-ties hire the guy from “Up”?) — a harsh truth will remain.
The American people are suffering, stuck between a rock of 
fear and a hard place of inaction. The fear? After a week of unjust 
killings by police, we awoke Sunday morning to an unjust killing 
of police: A lone ex-marine, possibly outraged by Alton Sterling’s death, fatally shot down three Baton Rouge officers and injured three others. As if that weren’t enough, Sunday marked the two-year anniversary of Eric Garner’s death. 
The inaction? Congress brought down the major bills pro-
posed after the Orlando massacre and House Democrats’ subse-quent sit-in. Even then, groups as liberal as the American Civil Liberties Union took issue with Democrats’ proposals, calling out 
the terror watchlist provisions as “error prone” and “unfair.”
Thus far, demonstrators, protesters and grassroots organizers 
across the country are the true sources of action we’ve seen, as 
well as officers like Baton Rouge police officer Montrell Jackson, who took to Facebook to tell his community, “Please don’t let hate infect your heart. This city MUST and WILL get better. I’m working in these streets so any protesters, officers, friends, fam-ily, or whoever, if you see me and need a hug or want to say a prayer. I got you.” And yet, this genuine soul was taken from us 
Sunday morning.
This country desperately needs a two-fold consensus: one 
among we the people, and another between us and our elected 
leaders. We can argue until we’re blue in the face over gun regu-lations, but until we agree on basic values, we’ll be at a loss. You can support black lives and blue lives all the same while fighting institutionalized racism and police brutality. Those two positions aren’t mutually exclusive: That’s where justice resides. 
Now, through social media, we can grow our awareness and 
capacity to act on these racial tensions and acts of violence. Of course, with a growing awareness comes heightened emotions and fears, but we have an opportunity for change: hence the doz-ens of demonstrations across this country between two week-ends. The next step is our leadership, such as the orchestrators of these conventions.
As we highlighted in a May editorial, the host committee of 
the Democrats’ convention includes ardent opponents of net neutrality, pro-frackers and major donors who contribute “huge” 
sums of money to both Democratic and GOP congressional elec-
tions alike (which says wonders for who our representatives ac-tually represent). 
The last thing you could reasonably expect from this group is 
genuine action on racial and police-community tensions; what-ever happens with the police or Black America, their investments and interests are safe.
Our best hope is that somewhere amidst the sea of donors, 
false promises and balloons (Seriously, have you seen the pic-
tures? It’s almost an offensive amount of balloons: Surely they 
trigger our nation’s clowns.) there’s a group of leaders willing to take one for the team on behalf of the people. Otherwise, our country is set to crash harder than a “Pokemon Go” server.
On SG and Aramark’s expansion of Chick-fil-A
On Friday, July 15, UF Student Govern-ment released a video via Facebook en-thusiastically announcing an upcoming expansion to the Hub’s Chick-fil-A loca-tion. Under a cheery guise of “Moving 
Gators Forward,” SG seemed excited about the new breakfast options. As stated in the video’s caption, “Starting next year, UF students can fi-nally ask, ‘Chick-n-Minis or Chicken Biscuit?’”
The problem? This isn’t the question we 
need to be asking.
I understand the popularity of Chick-fil-A. I 
used to eat there myself. I even fondly remem-ber my grandfather trying their famous sandwich for the 
first time during UF Preview. Gradually, however, between 
the company president’s very public anti-LGBTQ+ view-points, suspicions about how their suppliers inhumanely treat their chickens and my desire to avoid heart disease so I can hopefully make it to my own grandkids’ Previews, I stopped eating there. The smell of the fryers have tempted me every time I’ve walked by, but I’ve always bypassed it for my favored Einstein Bros. Bagels instead.
I’m not going to tell anyone they don’t have the right 
to eat at Chick-fil-A. I’m not going to say Aramark doesn’t have the right to expand their service, especially when it seems like it’s going to make them big bucks from a fi-nancial standpoint. I’m not even saying we don’t have the right to rejoice in SG’s fried chicken fervor.
What I will say, however, is this: Just because we can, 
doesn’t mean we should.
Two parties, Impact and Access, ran campaigns on Tur-
lington Plaza during SG’s last election cycle. While most 
of us faked phone calls and avoided eye contact, a few 
students stopped to tell the candidates what they desired on the 2016-2017 SG platform. Impact noted a want for a Chick-fil-A breakfast. In contrast, Access noted a need for more “healthy and vegan options on campus.”
While Impact stands proud in having supposedly satis-
fied a grand wish of the UF Student Body, it’s clear the Access platform point would have served a much wider range of students. Virtually everyone can eat vegan food, but those who eat diets that are vegetarian, kosher, halal, gluten-sensitive or even just plain health-conscious will have is-sues with almost all of Chick-fil-A’s meals.
So, our question should be this: “Starting 
next year, can more UF students finally ask for meals that fit their dietary, religious and mor-al needs? Can more UF students feel included when dining at on-campus restaurants? Can more UF students have easier access to health-ier food?”
This Chick-fil-A expansion was not the 
most innovative plan. Sure, a select group of students are 
thrilled with it. But does this help to give our school a 
more progressive, modern image? Is this a decision we can be proud of?
SG and Aramark’s next move should be to expand the 
vegetarian, vegan and healthy dining options on campus.
Their first step should involve sending out a survey 
asking about dining options to a representative random sample of students. Impact claims Chick-fil-A is what a large number wanted, but between not being able to back 
up this stance with statistics and the fact that Access had a 
very different plan on their platform, it’s clear something’s off.
Their second step, based partly on survey results, can 
be as simple as expanding hours for already existing res-taurants with ample vegetarian, vegan and healthy op-tions, such as Croutons or Einstein Bros. Bagels. Or, it can be as complex as creating a new place catered primarily toward vegetarian and vegan foods.
As Impact’s first listed platform point is to “make UF 
a more inclusive environment for students of all back-grounds,” adequately meeting the needs of more Gators must actively be its top priority.
Because nothing else will ever be truly “Moving Gators 
Forward.”
Valerie Berman is a 20-year-old UF health education 
junior. 
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORValerie 
Berman
opinions@alligator.orgColumn
“The manner in which burn-
ing is executed is as follows: He who had been thus con-demned was lowered into dung up to his armpits, then 
a hard cloth was placed within a soft one, wound round his neck, and the two loose ends pulled in opposite directions, forcing him to open his mouth. A wick was then lit, and thrown into his mouth, so that it descended into his body and burnt his bowels.”
No, that was not a description of what it’s 
like to be buried up to your neck in shit and forced to digest Chipotle. That is the descrip-tion of a punishment given to those found guilty of violating one of two laws. This pun-ishment is outlined in more detail in a reli-gious text from an Abrahamic faith that flour-ished in the Middle East many years ago.
That’s right. The Jewish people who lived 
between 516 B.C. to 70 A.D. practiced this 
heinous punishment. Those found guilty of 
adultery or violating the Sabbath were con-demned to this fate. As a Jew who grew up in an obnoxious South Florida suburb, I can say each and every one of my friends, their parents, their siblings and their other Jewish acquaintances has either broken the Sabbath or committed adultery — often, at the same time.
Now, this is Florida, and not one of us 
would be surprised if Gov. Rick Scott approved this as a death penalty practice tomorrow. But we’d like to think we live in this stringently objective, post-ideological world. Most Jews in my circle know we ignore our literature. We know it’s a failed and outdated construct fun-damentally incompatible with civil-
ity, justice, basic scientific knowl-
edge and second-grade reasoning. Most of my friends, conservatives, liberals, indifferent Jews and faith-ful Christians all think we have es-caped this primitive ideology.
This “no-ideology” ideological 
thinking is the way by which we frame our re-ality. You didn’t get a choice in choosing this 
worldview. Statistically, those of you who are 
Christian Republicans were born to Christian Republican parents. Like I said to the rabbis who believe the Jews are the Chosen People: It sure is convenient you were born Jewish, because it would suck if you weren’t.
I remember after the Orlando massacre lis-
tening to the right spout how guns had noth-ing to do with this, and listening to the left pin 
off the attacker’s faith as a misrepresentation 
of Islam. While the overwhelming majority of religious Muslims are peaceful people, they believe in the same Divine Truth of the Quran extremists do, the same way some moderate Jews believe in the same Divine Truth of the Torah extreme Orthodox Jews believe.
Ideology of any sort is dangerous. You can 
be right when you point fingers at another’s 
worldviews, but know they’re also right when 
they point back.
Zachary Lee is a UF philosophy senior. His 
column appears on Tuesdays.TUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
Zachary Lee
opinions@alligator.orgNow that the summer is well upon us, you should take a hard look at your financial situation. It is easy to let fi-nances pass you by because 
you want to spend time relaxing and enjoying your “deadline-free” life. Truth be told, the summer is a great time to get your finances in order because you have the freedom to take a good look at them and get everything squared away before your schedule becomes completely full again.
Avoid overspending.
It can be hard to grasp the concept of 
“overspending” because school is expensive 
enough as it is, so it seems logical to enjoy some of your extra money on some much-needed “me” time. But summer activity costs can add up quickly, and you don’t want to start the school year off in the hole financially. Sales, promo codes and cash back credit card deals are always plentiful during the warm 
months, so do a little research before you start 
spending.
Get your credit score in order.If you have no credit, or even bad-to-fair 
credit, take a look at your credit profile and get it squared away before school is in ses-sion. Your credit score takes time to build up, so take care of setting it up now, so all se-mester long you will be working toward an 
excellent credit score. A student credit card is 
a great way to improve your credit, as long as you use it responsibly and pay your bill on time each month. The Capital One Journey Student Credit Card is one of the best student credit cards avail-able and can give you all of the information and tools you need to get your personal credit score on 
the right track. Remember: It is 
not about how much money you spend on a credit card, but how good you are at repaying what you spend on time.
Set up an automatic savings plan.The key to being able to enjoy the money 
you earn is to save some for when you need it. Between school, your job and friends and 
family, it is hard to remember to save some of 
the money that comes your way. By setting up an automatic savings plan, you won’t have to worry about it. Things like your direct deposit from work make sending part of your pay-check to a savings account every week simple and easy. You can set up automatic withdraw-als from your checking account to be depos-ited into your savings account on a schedule 
that works for you. If you don’t already have 
a savings account, take a look at online high interest savings accounts. 
Now that you know some of the simple 
things you can do to get your finances in or-der before summer ends, take some time from your schedule to get everything set up. You should have money to help you enjoy your-self, along with an excellent credit score to 
help you open up all future financial options.
Matthew Coan is the owner of casavvy.
com, a Gainesville-based personal finance 
website.  
Avoiding financial blues this summerColumn
No stone unturned in war of ideas
Matthew Coan
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016
By Natalie Calvo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Though the rain may have washed up the 
Kickin’ it for the Kids Kickball Tournament 
earlier than planned Saturday, it didn’t wash away the success of the event. 
The kickball tournament, which is usually 
hosted in the Spring, aimed to spread aware-ness about Dance Marathon and UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital to incoming fresh-men. This year is the first time the event was hosted during the Summer, said Adam Lass-ley, DM’s community events overall director.
“It’s a time that Dance Marathon doesn’t 
have as big of a presence,” he said. “Our main goal was to connect freshmen who don’t know about Dance Marathon with students already involved.”
The kickball tournament will become an 
annual Summer event, said Lassley, a 21-year-old biochemistry senior.
He said the tournament raised about $300 
and about 25 freshmen participated, with sev-en teams competing.
The Spring kickball tournament is usually 
geared toward organizations and people who already participate in DM, Lassley said.
Individuals paid $5 to register for the tour-
nament, and complete teams paid $40, ac-cording to the event’s Facebook page.
Teams like My Kicks Don’t Lie and Kickin’ Gators competed in a standard kickball tour-nament until the game ended early due to thunder and lightning at 3:30 p.m. 
The event took place on Hume Field and 
was scheduled to last from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Though the final bracket had not been 
played, team Mighty Ducks was declared the winner as the only undefeated team in the tournament.
Team members from The Fresh Kicks of 
Bel-Air invited 8-year-old Nathan “Nate” Fer-rell to play on their team, Lassley said. Ferrell 
is a Miracle Child from the Children’s Miracle 
Network who has mitochondrial disease.
“It was really cool to see Nate running 
around with his oxygen backpack and having a good time playing kickball,” Lassley said. 
DM is a year-long fundraiser and aware-
ness campaign that brings attention to the 
children and families within UF Health 
Shands Children’s Hospital. The fundraiser benefits Children’s Miracle Network Hospi-tals, said Claire Daniel, a 21-year-old public relations fourth year and DM’s public rela-tions overall director.
“It culminates in a 26.2-hour event in the 
Spring,” she said. “Many on-campus organi-zations come together to stand for the cause. 
Families from the Miracle Network who are 
treated at UF Health Shands Children’s Hos-pital come to the event to speak and bring to-gether the Gainesville community.”
DM hosts Summer event to raise awareness, donationsTUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
STUDENTS CAN VIEW 
PHOTOS OF THEIR POTENTIAL 
ROOMS AND HOST FAMILIES.
By Jessica Gonzalez
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF law school alumnus Zee Asghar 
formed an online business to help inter-
national students find housing in the U.S.
Homestay Anywhere launched in June 
and has about 180 registered hosts in eight to 10 states, including popular cities such as Miami and Orlando, Asghar said. His business offers pictures of the rooms 
along with descriptions and photos of the 
family living in each house. 
“We want to make sure the students 
know exactly the type of home they’re 
moving into,” the 33-year-old said. 
In 2011, Asghar created his first com-
pany, Global Student Housing, where he 
matched host families with international students. 
However, everything was done through 
phone calls, and the soon-to-be-room-mates never directly spoke to each other. 
Those experiences led Asghar to cre-ate an online-based program where in-
ternational students could view photos of 
rooms and get to know potential hosts.
Allison VanDenend, 29, was a host 
about two years ago through Global Stu-dent Housing and he offered a room and bathroom to Tina Chung, an international 
student from Taiwan. 
Chung stayed with her for about eight 
to 10 weeks while studying at UF’s Eng-
lish Language Institute. VanDenend said 
there was not a large language barrier, 
and that she helped Chung learn the bus routes and get acquainted with living in Gainesville. 
“I myself studied abroad in undergrad, 
so I could relate to maybe how she was feeling or what she was experiencing,” she said.  UF alumnus links international students, host families
LOCAL
By Daniel Hopin
Alligator Contributing Writer
About two years after Lone-
some River Band’s “Turn on a Dime” made it on the Billboard 
Top 10 Bluegrass Album Chart, 
the band will now perform at the Jewel Box Summer Concert Se-ries’ last show Friday. 
The Historic Thomas Center, 
located at 302 NE Sixth Ave., will open its doors at 6:30 p.m., and the music will begin at 7:30 p.m., according to a press release. Tick-
ets are $20, and visitors can bring 
wine or beer. 
Though no members from the original 1982 group remain in the band, Sammy Shelor joined as a 
banjo player in 1990.
Shelor said the band, which 
has played on the set of “Late 
Show with David Letterman,” fo-
cuses on telling stories. 
“Ninety-ﬁ  ve percent of our 
music is about a woman, and the other 5 percent is about Jesus and 
moonshine,” Shelor, 53, said.
Brandon Rickman, 39, joined 
the group in 2001 after Shelor called him and said the band needed a new guitarist.
Rickman, who became inter-
ested in music at the age of 11, said he enjoys being the band’s main songwriter, even though it can sometimes be more tiring than fun. 
“It’s just like home,” he said. 
He said Lonesome River Band, 
which played at the Historic 
Thomas Center last year, puts a modern twist on the classic blue-grass style. 
“You will probably leave not 
even thinking you just heard a bluegrass show,” he said.   Bluegrass band to ﬁ  nish Jewel Box Summer Concert SeriesGainesville Arts Market: Water Worries 
ABOVE:
Local artist Iris Coe-
Gross, 37, paints a portrait of Pablo Picasso at the Gainesville Arts Market on Saturday, while incorporating his style of cubism. Iris is an artist in residence at the Black C Art Gallery and is in the process of inaugurating an Arts Heals program.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
BELOW:
Local artists showcased their water-themed work  alongside a petition for the maintenance of Lake Okeechobee and the Everglades. “We try to do a different theme each month, ” said the director of the Gainesville Art Scene, Txong Moua. “Next time we might do something related to farming or harvest. ”
Zachariah Chou / Alligator 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
This month, the Gainesville Arts Market hosted T oxic Florida: An Environmental Arts Movement & Call For Artists at SoMa Art Media Hub, where participants were able to submit up to two pieces of toxic art. Jim Dawson, a local art vendor, signed the Now or Neverglades Declaration in support of stopping “the damaging discharges to the coastal estuaries” and restoring the ﬂ  ow of fresh water to Everglades National Park.
“W e want to make sure the students 
know exactly the type of home 
they’re moving into.”
Zee Asghar
creator of Homestay Anywhere
The band will perform downtown this Friday10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016
CLEVELAND (AP) — Repub-
licans cast Donald Trump as the 
right man for turbulent times as they opened their presidential convention Monday against a backdrop of unsettling summer vi-olence and deep discontent within their own party.
Tumult broke out on the con-
vention floor after party officials adopted rules by a shouted voice vote, a move aimed at blunting anti-Trump forces seeking to de-rail the presumptive nominee. Delegates erupted in competing chants.
“I have no idea what’s going 
on right now. This is surreal,” said Utah Sen. Mike Lee, who helped lead the efforts to force a state-by-state roll call vote on the rules.
Republican leaders hope the 
convention centers instead on the glue that does unite the party’s factions: disdain for Hillary Clin-ton. Convention speakers planned to relentlessly paint the presump-
tive Democratic nominee as en-
trenched in a system that fails to 
keep Americans safe.
“Hillary Clinton cannot be 
trusted. Her judgment and char-
acter are not suited to be sitting 
in the most powerful office in the 
world,” said Sen. Joni Ernst, R-Iowa, according to excerpts of her speech released in advance.
While safety and security was the focus of Monday’s opening session, Trump was also trying to shore up Republican unity, in part by assuring party leaders and voters alike that there’s a kinder, gentler side to what many see as merely a brash businessman. Trump’s family is playing a star-ring role, beginning Monday with an evening speech by his wife, Melania Trump, who has kept a low profile throughout the cam-paign.
In a surprise, Trump an-
nounced he would come to Cleve-land and go onstage on opening night to introduce her.
The convention comes amid 
a wrenching period of violence and unrest, both in the U.S. and around the world. On the eve of the opening, three police officers were killed in Baton Rouge, Loui-siana, the city where a black man was killed by police two weeks ago.
Republican National Com-
mittee Chairman Reince Priebus 
welcomed delegates with a brief 
acknowledgement of the “trou-bling times” swirling outside. The chairman called for a moment of 
silence out of respect for “genuine 
heroes” in law enforcement.
“Our nation grieves when we 
see these awful killings,” he said.
In a matter of weeks, Ameri-
cans have seen deadly police shootings, a shocking ambush of police in Texas and escalating 
racial tensions, not to mention a 
failed coup in Turkey and grue-
some Bastille Day attack in Nice, France.Trump has seized on the insta-
bility, casting recent events as a 
direct result of failed leadership by 
President Barack Obama and by Clinton, who spent four years in the administration as secretary of state. But Trump has been vague 
about how he would put the na-
tion on a different course, offer-
ing virtually no details of his pol-
icy prescriptions despite repeated vows to be tough.
Tumult at GOP convention over effort to stop Trump 
DENHAM SPRINGS, La. (AP) — Fresh 
out of the police academy, Matthew Ger-ald was so proud to bring his cruiser home that he stood in the driveway, wip-ing it down under the hot Louisiana sun. His neighbor Ashley Poe watched as he flicked the blue lights on and off, on and off.
Poe and her husband shared a laugh. 
The 41-year-old former soldier and Ma-rine looked like an excited kid.
“It’s like living out the dream,” she 
said.
Gerald got to live it only for a few 
months. He was one of three officers gunned down in an ambush Sunday in Baton Rouge, traumatizing a nation al-ready on edge.
In the span of 10 turbulent days, 10 
law enforcement officers have been killed by attackers — at a protest march in Dal-las, a courthouse in Michigan and now a convenience store in Baton Rouge. Together, the shootings represent the deadliest attack on law enforcement in decades.
The officers who died Sunday all lived 
just outside Denham Springs, a quiet bedroom community across the Amite River from Baton Rouge, which has been in turmoil for two weeks. Tensions rose sharply after the death of Alton Sterling, a black man killed by white Baton Rouge officers after a scuffle at a convenience store. The killing was captured on cell-phone video.
As the nation debates race and polic-
ing, this community is mourning three of its sons — all husbands and fathers de-scribed by friends as being committed to protecting and serving the public.
“You hear about these things hap-
pening across the county to officers just trying to defend us, but this brings it right here, to our home,” Livingston Par-ish President Layton Ricks said. “These are our families. These are good men. They’re the only line of defense between good and evil. We say we don’t want to let this evil affect how we live our daily lives. But it does.”
Gavin Long, a former Marine from 
Missouri dressed in black and carrying extra ammunition, opened fire on officers around 8:45 a.m. Sunday, police said.
The gunfire also killed 45-year-old 
Brad Garafola, an East Baton Rouge Par-ish sheriff’s deputy and a father of four, and 32-year-old Montrell Jackson, a 10-year veteran of the Baton Rouge Police Department with a newborn baby at home.
“The world is crazy right now. It is 
complete chaos,” Jackson’s sister-in-law said. “And it all needs to stop, every-thing. We all need peace.”
Three other officers were wounded. 
One of them, Deputy Nicholas Tullier, re-mained in critical condition Monday. The gunman was killed at the scene. Slain Baton Rouge officers 
all hail from same place
ANKARA, Turkey (AP) — The purging 
of thousands of alleged plotters of a failed 
coup raised tensions Monday between Tur-key and the West, with U.S. and European officials urging restraint, while Ankara in-sisted Washington extradite an exile ac-cused of orchestrating the plot.
Authorities have fired nearly 9,000 po-
lice officers, bureaucrats and others, while detaining thousands more alleged to have been involved in Friday night’s attempted coup, the state-run Anadolu news agency reported.
Former air force commander Akin Oz-
turk, alleged to be the ringleader of the uprising, was put under arrest following questioning by a magistrate along with 25 other suspects, the news agency said. Oz-turk, who has denied involvement and in-sisted he had tried to suppress the rebellion, appeared in video from Turkish TV looking bruised with a bandage over his ear.
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan refused 
to rule out bringing back the death penalty, telling broadcaster CNN in an interview via a government translator, “There is a clear crime of treason.” He added that it would be up to parliament to decide.
Anadolu said 8,777 employees attached 
to the Interior Ministry were dismissed, including 30 governors, 52 civil service in-spectors and 16 legal advisers. Other me-dia reports said police, military police and members of the coast guard also were re-moved from duty.
During the uprising by a faction of the 
military, warplanes fired on government buildings and tanks rolled into the streets of major cities before the rebellion was put down by forces loyal to the government and civilians who took to the streets. The top brass did not support the coup.
Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said 232 
people — 208 government supporters he called “martyrs,” as well as 24 coup plot-ters — died in the unrest. His voice cracked and he wept as he spoke with reporters after a Cabinet meeting and repeated a question his grandson had put to him: “Why are they killing people?”
He said he had no answer, but that Tur-
key would make the coup plotters answer “in such a way that the whole world will see.”
As Western officials expressed alarm at 
the rapid roundup of so many by their key NATO ally, Turkish government officials ex-plained that the plotters in the military had been under investigation and launched their ill-planned operation out of panic.
The swift move against so many reflect-
ed the prior investigation, the government said. It alleged the coup conspirators were loyal to moderate cleric Fethullah Gulen, a former Erdogan ally who lives in exile in Saylorsburg, Pennsylvania, and espouses a philosophy that blends a mystical form of Islam with democracy.Tensions with West rise 
after failed military coup
The Associated Press
Delegates react as some delegates call for a roll call vote on the adoption of the rules during the open-
ing day of the Republican National Convention in Cleveland on Monday.TUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.
Available 8/1/16. $1,100. or $275 per  bedroom 
Call / text 239-370-8735    8-22-16-21-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. 1 avail. Immed. & 1 avail. 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   7-21-16-10-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Joshua 407-342-0617 / Charlie 407-810-3489     8-4-16-13-1
1 room, furnished, sliding glass doors to small privacy fenced back yard patio (du-plex). One female student roommate, dish-washer, washer/dryer in unit 2.5 miles from UF. High-spd internet included in $325 rent. 352 631 0737       7-26-16-10-1
Grad looking for male roommate postdoc, grad or mature undergrad. 2/2 apt, close to UF, avail Aug 1st, $350/mo + 1/2 util, con-tact Larry 443-939-6198. Located country village apt 2700 SW Archer Rd, Gainesville, FL     7-21-16-7-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,
2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF3BR/2BA w/ double sinks. All appliances in-cluding DW, W/D. Patio, 3 reserved parking places. $1200/mo. Call Claudette @ 352-359-5584   7-28-16-10-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Female Student for Sublease, Now - July, 31st 2017. 1Bed/1Bath in 3Bed/3Bath fur-nished apt on 2nd floor at West 20. $475/Month. Electricity not included. No pets. Renovated & w/ Internet. $1350 Move In- inc. 1st & last months rent, $200 background check, & $200 security deposit (refundable). Minutes from UF & SF w/ direct bus service. Complex is gated w/ amenities, see more at http://west-20.com/. Contact swmaxey13@bellsouth.net     7-19-16-1-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
1-2bd $325 shared ba, $375 own ba in 3/2 home. Peaceful 7.5 acres w oaks <10 mins to UF, Shands, Publix & shops! Spanish speakers encouraged. jrfong00@yahoo.com or txt 352.284.2654     7-28-16-10-4
AVAILABLE AUG 15 - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    8-22-16-10-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                8-15-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
02 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                     8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
CSR (Customer Service Rep) needed part-time at University Air Center. Please apply online at UAC.aero.      8-2-16-10-14Caregiver neededCompassionate caregiver needed for young lady with disability. Must be at least 18 years old, have a reliable vehicle,  and high school diploma or higher education.Over-nights and weekend shifts available.If interested, please contact Maryam Nikoonejad at (352)246-6039or Mr.Niko at (352)200-1017.     7-19-16-5-14
Part time cleaner needed for home,apartments, and office cleanings m-fri 8-5, wed 8a-10p and sat 8a-3p. Must be a fast, energetic cleaner in good shape to per-form any cleaning task with no limits. Must own a reliable car and be willing to service Gainesville, Jonesville, williston, and mor-riston. Must past a background/drug test. Paying $8.50/hr and weekly pay ..If inter-ested please call 352-214-0868     7-26-5-14
Gator Dining is Hiring!Attending Job Fairs on July 14th & July 20th Please apply atwww.gatordining.com/employmentto participate. Make sure to select a ‘Higher Education’ position.    7-19-16-3-14
Country Inn & Suites currently seeking front desk rep. and Night Auditor, Hotel front desk exp. preferred. Also seeking part time house man. Apply in person 4015 SW 43rd St Gainesville, Fl 32608  8-2-16-5-14
$ Seasonal PT Position $Football Game Day ParkingMust work a minimum of 2shifts every home gameContact: scoc-hire@ufl.edu       7-21-16-4-14UF Survey Research Center 
$9.50 - $10 per hour +
bimonthly bonus + Paid Training
No Sales
*Spanish speakers needed
Find us on Gator Jobs! 
http://jobs.ufl.edu
7-26-16-4-14
NEED CLINICAL EXPERIENCE BEFORE ENTERING MEDICAL SCHOOL?Paid, Full-time employment.Training provided.Send resume to Dr. Levy, afn22025@att.net    8-4-6-14
AUTOMOTIVE TECHNICIAN NEEDED. Must have diagnostic skills & exp in both for-eign and domestic vehicles and have tools. Fax resume to 386-758-4759 or email to cacrepair@yahoo.com    8-2-16-5-14
SECRETARY TYPIST. Mostly letters & man-uscripts. 6-10 hrs/wk. $10/hr. Must have own transportation & basic computer skills. Prefer local person. Call 352-378-9771, leave name and phone number.    7-21-16-2-14
Out of town Gator Alum needs help with 
tailgates for all home games! looking for a 
reliable, trustworthy and energetic individual 
to help prepare, set up tailgate, take down tailgate and store items for the next home game. Great Pay! Great Opportunity! Email 
me at gatorgamedays@gmail.com 7-28-16-
4-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Designated drivers are the greatest
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Your input matters!Help UF plan community outreach event 5 min research survey http://bit.ly/1YuT2SB Questions? (352)273-3690      7-19-16-5-20
Current world events foretold! 
Globalism, Middle East chaos, Cashless money 666 (Rev.13)
Bible Prophecy Forum   
Tuesday July 26 at 7:30 pm 
Reitz Union Room 3310  7-26-16-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
ACROSS
1 Accessory for
Batman or Robin
5 Bleating babies
9 Nasty marketing
campaign
14 “Jeopardy!” first
name
15 Run __: go
haywire
16 Kind of jacket
named for a
Hindu leader
17 *“The San
Francisco Treat”
19 Ordered pizza,
say
20 Covert fed. group21 Current “American
Dad!” network
23 Slices of history
24 “Ouch!”
28 Makes up (for)30 Life-of-the-party
types
31 Color in four-
color printing
33 Fever and chills34 Spider trap35 Jury makeup37 Super __: game
console
38 *Decor for part of
a floor
40 Moose kin42 Actress
Witherspoon
44 Half-pint
45 Color in four-
color printing
46 “This bears
repeating ... ”
48 Solitary
49 Zagreb natives
50 On the way
52 Sharp comment
53 Taste
55 Batteries in TV
remotes
56 Frozen pop treats
58 Site of the
hammer, anvil
and stirrup ... anda hint to thehidden word inthe answers tostarred clues
63 Deep opera voice64 Ronny Howard
role
65 Category66 Anti-wrinkle
treatment
67 Swerve68 Start of an ideaDOWN
1 Jaguar, e.g.
2 “Rumble in the
Jungle” champ
3 Bench press
target, briefly
4 Carry out, as a
task
5 Gold purity unit6 Texter’s “I feel”7 “Please stop!”
8 Commonly seen
Colorado airport
luggage
9 Santa __ winds
10 Cold War thaw11 *Question to a
stranded driver
12 Operatic solos13 Stocking woes18 Makes public22 Take on a
challenge
24 Shah’s realm,
once
25 Kellogg’s Tony,
e.g.
26 *Confinement
that might involvean ankle monitor
27 Neverland pirate
29 10 C-notes
32 Ancient counters34 Takes forcibly
(from)36 Slope38 Home to billions39 Short on
manners
41 Leg joint43 Paul Anka title
meaning “ThatKiss”
45 Hanger hangouts47 “I, Robot” author
Isaac
48 Severely
damaged sea49 Chocolate
source
51 Consumer
advocate Ralph
52 Tender lettuce54 Sherlock Holmes’
smoke
57 Chicago team,
for short
59 Yahtzee cube60 Hurricane center61 Gorilla, for one62 Embarrassed
By Tony Caruso and C.C. Burnikel©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/19/1607/19/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, July 19, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 15 Services 15 Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Poll Results: Who was UF's best male athlete?
 Logan Shore - 76.5%    Caeleb Dressel - 2.9%
 Dorian Finney-Smith - 8.8%   Will Grier - 4.4% Peter Alonso - 7.4 %  Florida announced on Monday 
the hiring of Bryan Gillooly as its new diving coach. Gillooly comes to UF from FAU.TUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Staff Report
In this edition of the Alligator 
Awards, we debate which UF coach 
was the best of the 2015-16 season. Sports writers Ray Boone, Matt Brannon and Alejandro López join 
alligatorSports Editors Ian Cohen 
and Ethan Bauer in a roundtable discussion to debate the ﬁ  ve nomi-nees. Debates will go in alphabeti-cal order by the writer’s last name.
Bauer: Holloway orchestrat-
ed impressive turnaround, UF’s only title
Back in mid-May, the UF men’s 
track team — normally one of the best in the country — was strug-gling. 
It ﬁ  nished seventh at the NCAA 
Indoor Championships follwed by  a sixth-place ﬁ  nish at the South-eastern Conference Outdoor Cham-
pionship meet. 
But just as I was ready to con-
demn the season, the team shocked 
the track and ﬁ  eld world by steal-ing an NCAA Championship.
“I don’t think there’s anybody 
in the country ... that thought we would even be in the top 10,” coach Mike Holloway said after the 
SEC meet. “But we always did.”
The team’s belief paid off with a 
title — UF’s only national champi-
onship of the 2015-16 season. 
Track and ﬁ  eld is a unique sport 
— there are two seasons per year and lots of chances to improve af-ter losses. Even so, it’s fairly rare that a team improves dramatically 
enough to go from sixth in its con-
ference to ﬁ  rst in the nation. 
But that’s exactly what the Gators were able to do, and for that, Holloway deserves a world of credit. 
The only thing he could’ve done 
better was have a mustache-shav-ing initiative like UF swimming 
coach Gregg Troy, who agreed to 
shave his distinctive mustache if his team won an SEC Champion-ship. 
Boone: Shelton made men’s 
tennis focal point of SECFlorida coach Bryan Shelton has 
made the men’s tennis program competitive. In 2012, after a suc-cessful 13-year career as the head coach of the Georgia Tech wom-
en’s team, Shelton made his way 
to Gainesville.
Due to several departures from 
the team, Shelton’s ﬁ  rst year was a struggle.
But things changed quickly. In only his fourth season at the reigns, Shelton’s team became a force within the SEC.
At the end of the regular season, 
Florida dominated Tennessee 6-1, giving the Gators their 10th confer-ence win of the season — the ﬁ  rst 
time that mark has been reached 
since the 2004-05 season. 
And that was just the begin-
ning.
The Gators breezed through the 
SEC Tournament a few days later.
Florida swept its ﬁ  rst two rounds against Vanderbilt and Texas A&M, respectively, and defeated Georgia 4-2 to capture the program’s ﬁ  fth conference tournament title — and its ﬁ  rst since 2011.
Although the Gators’ season 
ended in bitter fashion — a 4-0 loss to Virginia in the NCAA Quarterﬁ  -nals — the year was still a success, and Shelton deserves credit. Flori-da’s 21-7 overall record was its best under Shelton, and the Gators were back on top of the conference.
Year by year, Shelton has con-
tinued to build a winning team.
First in the SEC. Next in the 
NCAA Tournament.  
Brannon: Deacon driving golf 
back into UF mainstream 
When the men’s golf team won 
the FGCU Classic this season by a whopping 42 strokes, it made for 
Florida’s ﬁ  rst team win since 2013. 
In the team’s next tournament, 
it got its second. 
Coach J.C. Deacon has been re-
building the golf program since it 
hit rock bottom in 2013-14, and in his second season at UF, he took the team from a campus embar-rassment to a program of nation-
al relevance. Before Deacon was 
hired in 2014, UF was coming off a last place ﬁ  nish in the SEC Cham-pionship and failed to qualify for the NCAA Tournament for the ﬁ  rst time in 30 years. 
In Deacon’s ﬁ  rst year, the team 
went from two top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nishes to seven top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nishes. And in the 
ensuing 2015-16 season, the coach 
built on that success. He signed Sam Horsﬁ  eld, a highly sought-af-ter recruit, who one year later was Alligator Awards: Florida's 2015-16 coach of the year
SWEET AND BAUER / OPINION
Tim Tebow won’t be speaking 
at this week’s Republican Na-tional Convention. 
Despite rumors to the con-
trary, the former Heisman 
Trophy winner dismissed any such 
claims. But for one day — Wednes-day — rumors of his impending speech swirled. 
And as a college student plugged 
into a largely liberal network and being fairly liberal myself, the reac-tion I saw for that one day was over-whelmingly negative. 
On Medium.com, for example, a post titled “An Open Letter to Tim Tebow” gained traction. In it, Dan Wunderlich, who introduces himself as a United Methodist Minister and 
UF alumnus, urges Tebow to recon-
sider speaking at the RNC. 
“While I no longer serve in col-
lege campus ministry in Gainesville,” he wrote, “your support of Donald Trump will make the jobs of those who do harder.”
I think he’s got a point there. For 
those involved in religious work, a 
Christian as professed as Tebow 
supporting an antichrist like Trump would make evangelization grueling. 
But to dismiss what Tebow — or 
other athletes, or anyone — has to say just because he supports Trump — or any politician — is shortsighted and unfair. Compare the reaction to his ru-
mored speech to the reaction that followed the ESPYs speech by NBA stars Carmelo Anthony, Leb-
ron James, Chris Paul and Dwyane 
Wade calling for social change, spe-ciﬁ  cally against violence. When they 
did that, the same crowd furious 
with Tebow was thrilled. 
And on some level, I understand 
why. I, too, am far more sympathetic to the cause of the players than to the conservative causes Tebow was 
likely to advocate. But that isn't a 
good reason to tune him out entire-ly. The hypocrisy of those decrying him while applauding more liberal athletes for "using their voices for 
good" is astounding. 
And yes, there are times when 
such blockage is appropriate, but 
just because he was going to speak doesn’t mean he was going to get up 
there and spew hatred in Trump’s 
volcanic style. He’s the poster boy of civility. If anyone could make the Re-publican party sound more ground-
ed, it’d be him. It’s really a shame 
that he won’t be there because that’s 
Reaction to Tebow possibly speaking at RNC was uncalled forJordan McPherson / Alligator
Mike Holloway talks to his team during the 2016 Pepsi Florida Relays. Florida's men's track and ﬁ  eld 
team was the only UF team to win a national championship during the 2015-16 season. 
 SEE ALLIGATOR AWARDS,  PAGE 15
SEE TEBOW,  PAGE 15
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueriTUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
dubbed the best freshman in col-
lege golf with the Phil Mickelson Outstanding Freshman Award. 
The team’s third-place SEC 
Championship finish and 15th 
place in the NCAA Championship 
were the best the Gators have done in either tournament since 2012. 
Former head coach Buddy Al-exander became a legend when he 
led Florida to two national champi-
onships in 1993 and 2001. And in his retirement, the team is trending upward again with Deacon at the helm.
Cohen: Winning ways won’t 
wane with White
I’ll be honest. 
Mike White probably doesn’t 
deserve to win coach of the year.
But that’s not to say he shouldn’t be in the conversation.
So, let’s recap. 
In its first year under White, 
Florida went 21-15 — 9-9 in the SEC — and held a 1-8 record against ranked opponents. 
The Gators didn’t make the 
NCAA Tournament, but they steamrolled through their first two opponents in the National Invita-
tional Tournament before losing in 
the quarterfinals. 
There was nothing particu-larly transcendent about any of 
UF’s players under White. Dorian 
Finney-Smith, UF’s best and most experienced player, landed on the coaches’ second team All-SEC and the AP’s third team All-SEC before going undrafted.
And yet, White’s first season at 
UF was a success.
He was one of only three first-
year Florida coaches last season. But whereas Jim McElwain was taking the reigns from a coach most fans were kicking out the door, White was inheriting his job from a living legend.
The doubts of what could re-
place Billy Donovan’s two national titles, six SEC regular season cham-
pionships and constant influx of 
soon-to-be NBA talent would never be assuaged within one season.
But, last year, White came 
close.
With minimal roster turnover 
from Donovan’s last year as coach,  the Gators improved by five wins.
White recorded a better record 
than each of the two Florida coach-es who preceded him in their first years: Lon Kruger and Donovan.
And he did it all under intense 
scrutiny, all under immediate ex-pectations, all under immense pressure to justify his worthiness of filling a seat so coveted for so long.
Put simply, White handled pres-
sure better than any UF coach last season.
López: McElwain brought 
Florida football back into na-tional spotlight
Heading into the 2015 season, the Florida Gators football team hit 
rock bottom.
By the end of Will Muschamp’s 
tenure, a once-formidable force in 
the SEC had devolved to a shell of its former self. 
Florida went an average 28-21 
(17-15 SEC) during Muschamp’s time in Gainesville, the first Gator coach to post a sub-.500 confer-
ence record in multiple seasons 
since Doug Dickey helmed the team in the 1970’s.
But, as the saying goes: The 
harder you hit rock bottom, the faster you’ll bounce back up. And last season, Jim McElwain dragged the team back into the national spotlight. 
Working with a squad primar-
ily composed of holdovers from the Muschamp era, he guided Florida to a 10-4 record, winning as many games as his predecessor did in his last two seasons combined.
The Gators also earned their 
first SEC Championship berth since 2009 and finished the season in the 
top 25 for the first time since 2012.
Under McElwain, the team de-
livered signature wins over Ten-
nessee and then-No. 3 Ole Miss, avenged 2014’s homecoming blowout loss against Missouri and injected life into a jaded fan base. His personality and sense of hu-mor quickly earned the respect of 
his charges, making him a favor-
ite among players, fans and press members alike. 
Not bad for his first year on the 
job. 
Who do you think was the coach 
of the year? Vote online at alligator.org/sports.ALLIGATOR AWARDS,  
from pg14Jim McElwain went 10-4 in his first season as head football coach
exactly what the party needs. 
Now, some might say that even if his ideas are presented 
civilly, he’s still there to build support for Trump, which is the 
ultimate sin. 
But ignoring him outright because of who his party nomi-
nated for president is a grave mistake. 
Doing so results in being swept away into echo chambers, 
where we only hear what we want to hear. And then, when 
we hear something we don’t agree with, our response isn’t to legitimately consider it, but to consider ways to argue against it. 
I do this all the time. Many of you probably do, too. It’s nor-
mal. 
But that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t at least try to resist. And what better way to do so than by listening to Tebow, 
who you might not agree with on much (I certainly don’t), but who’s thoughtful enough to inspire contemplation rather than 
making you feel like a dog that just got scolded. 
Again, disagreement might happen. In fact, when it comes 
to politics, it should happen — regardless of which side you’re 
on and who you’re talking to. No political party’s views have a monopoly on the truth. I think we often forget that in our echo 
chambers. 
Nevertheless, I find myself siding squarely with the Demo-
crats on most issues. As a result, I really (truly, emphatically) 
don’t want Donald Trump to be our next president. As freelance 
sportswriter Jeff Pearlman put it, “Trump is what we’re warned 
about in history books.”
But that doesn’t mean his supporters — Tim Tebow or not — 
should immediately be rendered voiceless. 
Ethan Bauer is the assistant sports editor. Contact him at 
ebauer@alligator.org or follow him on Twitter @ebaueri.TEBOW,  from pg14'No political party's views have a monopoly on the truth'Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain looks on during the 2016 Orange and Blue Debut on April 8 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Alligator File Photo
SEC Network's Joe T essitore (left) and Tim T ebow on the SEC Nation set located on UF's Plaza of the Americas 
on September 12, 2014. T ebow recently announced that, despite reports to the contrary, he wouldn't be speak-ing at the Republican National Convention. 
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 19, 2016
IT’S COHEN DOWN / OPINION
Among teenagers in college, 
among Greek life and dorm rooms and around campus living, sexual assault is inevi-tably present.
And sports? They’re no exception. 
Some of America’s most highly pub-licized sexual assault cases revolving college campuses involve its athletes, speciﬁ  cally members of the school’s football teams.
Former FSU quarterback Jameis 
Winston was accused of sexual as-sault in 2012.
Sam Ukwuachu, formerly of Bay-lor, sexually assaulted a former Bay-lor women’s soccer player in 2013.
There are many others.Never had I heard a UF athlete 
speak so candidly and honestly about 
the subject than UF football’s  Jarrad 
Davis at last week’s SEC Media Days.
Davis had no agenda. There was 
no one he was ostracizing, no issue he was sidestepping. He was merely asked whether, in light of the sexual assault issues that have been preva-lent among collegiate football pro-grams over the past few years, UF 
players ever discuss it.“As an athlete, as a student ath-
lete, this is the way I look at it,” Davis 
began. “Each and every day I wake up and get out of my bed and go to work, I have a special opportunity right here. And yeah, I made it. My name’s gonna be on everything that I do. But my mom, my grandma, my grandpa, my dad, my teachers, my 
coaches, everyone played a part in 
me getting to this university, getting to where I am today.”
He went on.“If I were to go out and jeopardize 
all the work and time that they invest-ed in me, I mean, that’s extremely selﬁ  sh,” Davis said. “And I wouldn’t want to waste that for a couple min-
utes or a couple seconds of just doing something that I know I should not 
be doing.”
And yes, he said, Florida does dis-
cuss these issues. Especially during the offseason, and especially now, 
a time where the welcomed distrac-
tions from the season and daily prac-tices are still weeks away.
“This is where we have all of our 
free time,” Davis said. “We get con-stant reminders each and every week what we should be doing and what we should not be doing.” 
Continue reading this column on-
line at alligator.org/sports.
Credit UF’s Davis for speaking candidly at SEC Media Days
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenb