We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 71 MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016
Column: It’s time to ditch Appleby
With one game left, coach Jim McElwain 
should play a freshman at quarterback. Read the full column on pg. 13
APIA Aﬀ  airs, GatorWell to hold workshop
It will discuss stress reduction, pg. 3
Gainesville woman twerks on car, is arrested
She was eventually charged with resisting an ofﬁ  cer without violence, pg. 5Gainesville’s Christmas spirit
See photos from this weekend’s holiday event, pg. 9
FLORIDA 16
 ALABAMA  54
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Tyrie Cleveland slumped in his 
locker with a towel covering his face. Antonio Callaway fell to the ﬂ  oor and stayed there, his jersey pulled up to cover his eyes. 
Minutes before, Jalen Tabor had 
to be helped off the ﬁ  eld by the two of them as he fought back tears.
“It just hurts, man,” Tabor said. 
“I can’t explain this feeling.”
The scene was the aftermath of 
Alabama smacking Florida in the Southeastern Conference Champi-
onship Game on Saturday for the 
second season in a row, this time 
by a decisive score of 54-16. The loss cost the Gators a chance at the Sugar Bowl, which went to Auburn. 
Instead, No. 17 UF will play the 
unranked Iowa Hawkeyes in the Outback Bowl at Tampa’s Raymond James Stadium — the site of this year’s national championship game — on Jan. 2 at 1 p.m. And enter-ing the game, the Gators ﬁ  nd them-selves in familiar territory. 
A season ago, they headed to the 
Citrus Bowl following back-to-back losses to Florida State and Alabama by a combined score of 56-17. This year, they’re heading to Tampa coming off back-to-back losses LIMPING TO THE FINISH 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Austin Appleby crouches after Florida’s 54-16 loss to Alabama in the SEC Championship Game on Saturday. Appleby’s three ﬁ  rst-half interceptions were the most in the 25-year history of the SEC title game.
The Associated Press
CANNON BALL, N.D. (AP) — The U.S. 
Army Corps of Engineers said Sunday that it will not grant an easement for the Da-kota Access oil pipeline in southern North Dakota, handing a victory to the Standing Rock Sioux tribe and its supporters, who argued the project would threaten the tribe’s water source and cultural sites.
North Dakota’s leaders criticized the 
decision, with Gov. Jack Dalrymple call-ing it a “serious mistake” that “prolongs the dangerous situation” of having several hundred protesters who are camped out on federal land during cold, wintry weath-er. U.S. Rep. Kevin Cramer said it’s a “very chilling signal” for the future of infrastruc-ture in the United States.
The four-state, $3.8-billion project 
is largely complete except for the now-blocked segment underneath Lake Oahe, a Missouri River reservoir. Assistant Secre-tary for Civil Works Jo-Ellen Darcy said in a news release that her decision was based on the need to “explore alternate routes” for the pipeline’s crossing. Her full deci-sion doesn’t rule out that it could cross under the reservoir or north of Bismarck.
“Although we have had continuing Army Corps blocks route of 
Dakota Access oil pipeline
GATORWELL IS CO-HOSTING 
EVENTS THIS WEEK.  
By Mary-Lou Watkinson 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
On-campus organizations at UF are get-
ting ready to help students get through ﬁ  -
nals week. 
UF Dean of Students Jen Day Shaw said 
services like U Matter, We Care, the Disabil-ity Resource Center and the Field and Fork Food Pantry are prepared to handle the in-crease of students experiencing stress over ﬁ  nals. 
“The care team certainly experiences a 
pretty signiﬁ  cant jump of students in dis-tress,” she said. 
“Reach out to your housing staff; reach 
out to your friends. Don’t feel like you’re the only one feeling anxious or uncertain.” 
Jennifer Kennymore, a health promotion 
specialist at GatorWell, said the organization is offering different services during reading days and ﬁ  nals week to help students cope with stress. 
“I think all of the resources that are avail-UF organizations hosting events 
to prep students for ﬁ  nals week
SEE FINALS,  PAGE 4SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
SEE PIPELINE,  PAGE 4CAMPUS Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  81° LOW  68°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 71
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson, 
  Cameron Wallace  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘A Christmas Carol’
The Hippodrome State Theatre 
presents its most recent rendi-tion of the classic “A Christmas Carol,” featuring Scrooge, Marley and, of course, Tiny Tim. The show will run Saturday and Dec. 17 at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. It will also run Dec. 19 and Dec. 
20 at 7 p.m. and Dec. 21 and 
Dec. 22 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Share the timeless messages of redemption, charity and good-will with your children for the first time — or the 39th. Call the Hippodrome Box Office at 352-375-4477 for advance reserva-tions.
Residents against death penal-
ty hold annual holiday card signing On Tuesday at 6 p.m., Gainesville Citizens for Alternatives to the Death Penalty is having its holiday card signing event for prisoners on death row.  Those who attend will sign the near-ly 400 cards that are mailed. It is also a potluck and a time for socializing. Bring a dish to share. They will meet at the Emmanuel Mennonite Church, located at 1236 NW 18th Ave. For many on death row, this is the only holiday greeting they receive. For more information, email mark1343@juno.com or call 352-378-1690.
Light in Darkness
Many people feel threatened in the present political climate. Welcoming Gainesville will hold a brief interfaith service at 5 p.m. Tuesday in the court-yard at Holy Trinity Episcopal Church and proceed across the street to Gainesville City Hall, where Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe and city commissioners will reaffirm that Gainesville is a “welcoming city,” where every-one can be secure and be part of a community of neighbors. UF professor Zoharah Simmons, a veteran of the civil rights move-ment in the 1960s, will be the main speaker. Several UF stu-dents will also share their expe-riences.
The Reitz Union Arts and Crafts 
Center will close for renova-tions WednesdayAfter 5 p.m. Wednesday, the Reitz Union Arts and Crafts Center will temporarily close to begin crafting a better space for your art. The ACC will be work-ing with current users to finalize existing projects and retrieve art pieces. Please visit union.ufl.edu for updates on the renova-tion and a reopening announce-ment during the Spring.
Holiday hip-hop: Fitness edition 
with RUB EntertainmentJoin Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment for a festive 
take on hip-hop fitness. On 
Wednesday, take a break from 
studying and come out to the 
Reitz Union Rion Ballroom on 
the third level of the Reitz Union 
for a special holiday-themed 
hip-hop fitness class, which will 
feature some of your favorite 
holiday songs to get you excited 
for the season. Have some fun 
before the semester comes to an 
end. Please arrive by 6:15 p.m.
Caroling the Ravines, presented 
by Friends of Ravine Gardens 
Inc.
The Florida Department of 
Environmental Protection’s Ravine Gardens State Park and the Friends of Ravine 
Gardens Inc. are hosting their 
ninth annual Christmas event 
— Caroling the Ravines — Saturday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Take a musical wagon ride 
around the lit-up park as you 
enjoy featured performances 
from talented singers, and get your Christmas shopping done early by visiting local vendors. 
Come visit with Santa Claus, 
or have your photo taken with 
him. A variety of delicious foods, sets and drinks will also 
be available for purchase from 
local food vendors. Admission 
to the event, which will take 
place at the Ravine Gardens State Park in Palatka, Florida, 
is $2 per person or $5 per ve-
hicle (up to 8 people), which 
includes park entry. Proceeds 
from the event will benefit the Friends of Ravine Gardens Inc. 
Decorated luminary bags with 
custom names on them will be 
on sale for $5 each. Proceeds 
from the luminaries will benefit local projects by the Pilot Club 
of Palatka.
Toastmasters Potluck
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
will host its annual holiday 
potluck and gift exchange 
Dec. 13. The meeting starts at 5:45 p.m. in UF’s Entomology-Nematology Building, located at 1881 Natural Area Drive. Bring food for the potluck. Also bring a new or gently used gift val-ued at $5 to $10 and wrapped or concealed in a bag. There will be no meeting Dec. 27. Meetings resume Jan. 3. For de-tails, go to talkinggators.toast-mastersclubs.org or the Talking Gators group page. The mission of Talking Gators is “to pro-
vide a supportive and positive 
learning experience in which 
members are empowered to de-
velop communication and lead-
ership skills, resulting in greater 
self-confidence and personal 
growth.”
Apply Now for 2017-2018 
Financial Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at 
fafsa.ed.gov. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive the results of your 2017-2018 FAFSA from 
the federal processor is Dec. 
15. Apply well before Dec. 15 
to ensure that the federal pro-cessor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA 
to UF Student Financial Affairs. 
Financial aid is awarded on a 
first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and 
best aid. For more information 
or assistance with completing 
your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your financial aid adviser through sfa.ufl.edu/
contact-sfa.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after 
the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Sarah Day
Alligator Contributing Writer
With a small drum set and a 
couple of microphones, the hus-
band-and-wife band Us The Duo brought their original sounds Fri-day night to a packed room.
Michael and Carissa Alvarado 
of Us the Duo performed acous-tic cover songs and their original music to about 400 UF students 
as part of GatorNights in the Re-
itz Union Rion Ballroom, said 
Ashley Fosse, a band committee director of Reitz Union Board Entertainment. They were paid 
$15,000 to perform. 
“It exceeded our expectations 
before it even began,” Fosse said. 
As he waited in line for the 
doors to open, Ammar Khan, 19, said he was surprised the popular 
act came to UF. 
“I expected there to be a large 
turnout, so I arrived early,” said the UF microbiology and cell sci-ence sophomore, who was one of the ﬁ  rst people in line.
Khan, who discovered the band through social media, said he did not have high expectations 
for the live performance. 
After the band took the stage, 
an overﬂ  ow of about 100 people 
stood waiting in line outside of the ballroom. Fosse said they 
tried to get as many people in as 
others left. 
After the show, Khan said the 
band sounded better live than he 
expected. 
“Narrowing down my favor-
ite part isn’t easy,” Khan said. “But if I had to choose, it would be between their ‘Banana Song’ and the medley at the end of their set.”Us the Duo brings acoustic music to UF
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Carissa Alvarado does the Gator Chomp onstage during Friday night’s concert. She and her husband, Michael Alvarado, performed together as Us the Duo in the Reitz Union.
IT STARTS AT 5 P .M.
By Janine Wolf 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can find ways to 
cope with their end-of-semester 
stress at a workshop today.  
UF’s Asian Pacific Islander 
American Affairs and GatorWell are hosting a stress-reduction workshop today to help students 
cope with stress. 
The event, which starts at 5 
p.m. in the Reitz Union APIA 
Affairs suite, will feature a pre-sentation on techniques to deal 
with and limit stress, guided 
meditation practices and zumba. 
Shalini Mirpuri, a UF mar-
riage and family therapy mas-
ter’s student and the APIA Af-
fairs’ graduate assistant, said students can do small things to improve their health during fi-nals week.“This event is so important, 
because students often get so 
burnt-out at the end of the se-
mester that other priorities start to slip,” the 25-year-old said. “Things like getting eight hours 
of sleep, regular meals and 
drinking eight glasses of water get put on the back burner.”
Under pressure of perform-
ing well in classes, Farwa Syed, 
a UF microbiology and cell sci-
ence junior, said she finds her-self neglecting her physical and mental well-being toward the 
end of the semester.
The 20-year-old said she is 
going to the workshop today to 
learn how to better take care of herself before her final exams.
“The best thing for me to do 
during finals week is to find op-portunities where I can take care of myself by doing things that 
will alleviate my stress and wor-
ries,” she said. APIA Aﬀ  airs, 
GatorWell to hold stress-relief workshop CAMPUS
IF YOU GO
• When: 5 p.m.
• Where: APIA Affairs suite, second ﬂ  oor of the Reitz 
Union
• What You’ll Do: Guided meditation, games, coloring and zumba
• Giveaways: Hand-sanitizer wipes, lip balmThey were paid $15,0004   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016
AN EMAIL TOLD IMPACT 
SENATORS TO NOT 
RESPOND TO ALLIGATOR 
REPORTERS.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
An email sent out Sunday to 
Impact Party student senators 
told them not to respond to ques-
tions from the Alligator regarding 
constituency requirements. 
After a reporter sent out emails 
requesting comment from sena-
tors who had not documented their requirements, Impact Party 
Majority Leader Wayne Selogy sent out an email with the sub-ject line “READ THIS NOW, SERI-
OUSLY VITAL.” 
“If you receive an email from 
any alligator reporter do not re-
spond,” Selogy wrote in the email, adding that senators should text 
him if contacted. 
Student Government sena-
tors have to submit online forms 
proving they attended a required 
number of events for their con-
stituent group by the beginning of Tuesday’s Student Senate meet-ing, wrote Rules and Ethics Com-mittee chairwoman Isabella Mun-can in an email. Of the 96 active senators, 51 have not turned in all 
of their reports as of press time, 
according to an email Muncan sent to all senators Sunday after-noon.   
In the email and at Tuesday’s 
Senate meeting, Muncan ex-pressed her disapproval with the number of senators who have not turned in their forms. 
“I am very disappointed, be-
cause I know we are capable of so much more than that,” she wrote in Sunday’s email. 
Selogy confirmed sending the 
email and said he was concerned 
about how senators would be rep-
resented, because constituency reports are not due yet. 
“I simply recommended, as a 
leader of the party, they talk to me first,” he said.
Selogy said the only official way to document if senators have completed their requirements is online through GatorConnect, 
and Muncan’s email might not be 
up-to-date. 
Muncan said the document 
sent to senators, which lists who 
had not turned in forms docu-
menting requirements, was last updated Sunday morning. 
“Senators can turn a form in 
up to a week after they attend an 
event,” she said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org Impact leader discourages members from commenting on  constituency
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
WAITING FOR THE SHOW 
A group of people line up outside the front entrance of Cirque Italia, a touring European-style 
aquatic circus, in the parking lot of The Oaks Mall on Sunday afternoon. The line began to form at about 1 p.m., more than an hour before the show began.
able on campus are great for stu-dents to utilize,” Kennymore said.
GatorWell is co-hosting events 
during the week, which includes Smash Bash and Treat Yourself, both of which will take place on the Reitz Union North Lawn, she said. Another event, Food for Thought, will take place at Marston Science Library. 
Catherine Seemann, a com-
munications coordinator for UF’s Student Health Care Center, said students going to the infirmary this time of year typically suffer from general fatigue, which she at-tributes to students not managing their time and stress well. 
She recommends students get at 
least six to eight hours of sleep, eat healthy and exercise.
“It’s OK to treat yourself for 
sure, but don’t overdo it,” See-mann said. 
Patrick Reakes, the associate 
dean for Scholarly Resources and Services for the Smathers Libraries, said starting today, Library West is hosting Finals Relaxation Week, which includes things such as free food and a motivation wall. 
The library gets twice the 
amount of traffic during finals week, Reakes said.
“It goes up really drastically 
during those two weeks,” he said. “The main thing we do is just make sure everybody working at all the service desks is extra understand-ing.” 
FINALS,  from pg. 1Finals Relaxation W eek starts todaydiscussion and exchanges of new information with the Standing Rock Sioux and Dakota Access, it’s clear that there’s more work 
to do,” Darcy said. “The best way 
to complete that work responsibly 
and expeditiously is to explore alternate routes for the pipeline crossing.”
The company constructing 
the pipeline, Dallas-based Energy Transfer Partners, had said it was unwilling to reroute the project. It had no immediate comment Sun-
day.
The decision came a day before 
the government’s deadline for the 
several hundred people at the Oceti Sakowin, or Seven Council Fires, encampment to leave the federal land. But demonstrators say they’re prepared to stay, and authorities say they won’t forcibly remove them.
As the news spread Sunday, 
cheers and cheers and chants of “mni wichoni” — “water is life” in Lakota Sioux — broke out among the protesters. Some in the crowd banged drums. Miles Allard, a member of the Standing Rock Sioux, said he was pleased but remained cautious, saying, “We don’t know what Trump is going to do.”
“The whole world is watch-
ing,” Allard added. “I’m telling all our people to stand up and not to leave until this is over.”
Attorney General Loretta Lynch 
said Sunday that the Depart-ment of Justice will “continue to monitor the situation” and stands “ready to provide resources to help all those who can play a con-structive role in easing tensions.”
“The safety of everyone in the 
area — law enforcement officers, residents and protesters alike —continues to be our foremost con-cern,” she added.
Carla Youngbear of the 
Meskwaki Potawatomi tribe made her third trip from central Kansas to be at the protest site.
“I have grandchildren, and I’m 
going to have great grandchil-dren,” she said. “They need wa-ter. Water is why I’m here.”
Standing Rock Sioux tribal 
chairman Dave Archambault did not immediately respond to mes-sages left seeking comment.
Morton County Sheriff Kyle 
Kirchmeier, whose department has done much of the policing for the protests, said that “local law enforcement does not have an opinion” on the easement and that his department will continue to “enforce the law.”
U.S. Secretary for the Interior 
Sally Jewell said in a statement that the Corps’ “thoughtful ap-proach ... ensures that there will be an in-depth evaluation of al-ternative routes for the pipeline and a closer look at potential im-pacts.”
PIPELINE,  from pg. 1Protestors are still in the area
FINALS RELAXATION 
WEEK: 
What: Free coffee and doughnutsWhere: Library West When: T oday at 4 p.m.
What: Free snacks, adult coloring 
and study mythsWhere: Library WestWhen: Tuesday at 3:30 p.m.
What: Free pizza
Where: Library WestWhen: Wednesday at 5 p.m.
 EVENTS HAPPENING THIS 
WEEK: 
What: Smash Bash 
Where: Reitz Union North LawnWhen: Thursday at 11 a.m.
What: Food For Thought 
Where: Marston BreezewayWhen: Thursday at 11 a.m.
What: Treat Yourself
Where: Reitz Union North LawnWhen: Friday at 11 a.
m.“I simply recommended, as a 
leader of the party, they talk 
to me first.”
Wayne   Selogy
Impact Party majority leaderMONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
HE BUILT THE COURT AT 
THE IGNITE LIFE CENTER.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
An hour after Sunday services let 
out at the Ignite Life Center, a half 
a dozen shoes squeaked across the newly poured pavement of a basket-ball court.
Members of the congregation of 
the church, located at 404 NW 14th Ave., aimed their shots at two NBA-sized hoops as Johan Nunez looked on and shouted encouragement.
“Let’s go,” he yelled. “Hustle.”The kids used to play basketball 
on a concrete slab across the street from the building, which doubles 
as a temporary emergency shelter. 
They used to aim at a hoop attached to a telephone pole.
But on Saturday, the new court 
took the old one’s place. 
Gainesville Police Officer Bobby 
White, who organized the construc-tion of the court, said he hopes the new addition to the center can func-
tion as a gathering area for police 
and residents of the shelter, which operates through the Florida De-partment of Children and Families. Through his Basketball Cop Founda-tion, White has organized the con-struction of two other courts in the past year.
Nunez, who has been a member 
of the center for three years, said it brought him hope to see the kids get a new court.
“Basketball brings us together,” 
the 25-year-old said.
Although the new court behind 
the church will not open officially until Sunday at 12:30 p.m., some started using it Saturday night after the pavement was poured, the hoops were put up and some of the lines were drawn, said Nicole Gomez, an 
associate pastor at the center and 
the program director for the shelter, which also conducts a mentorship program.
White started his foundation in 
January after dashboard-camera footage of him playing basketball with kids after a noise complaint went viral. Now that he has almost 
finished his third court — he has 
some painting and landscaping left undone — White said he hopes to build courts outside of Gainesville.
“The goal is to one day, if funds 
permit, to start sponsoring these projects around the country,” he said.Basketball Cop continues basketball-court campaign with new court
Caitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
Members of the Ignite Life Center play basketball after church on Sunday. Although some lines 
still need to be drawn, people started playing on the almost-NBA-sized court on Saturday night. The center acts as an emergency shelter for the Florida Department of Children and Families to house and mentor foster children.
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff
PRETTY AT A PLANTATION
Kimberly Dean, a docent at Historic Haile Homestead, offers historical information to visitors about the girls’ room on Sunday afternoon during a tour at Kanapaha Plantation. The place was adorned with live decorations inside and out for the Annual Homestead Holidays.
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF’s Board of Trustees officially put their 
support behind Gainesville becoming the 
“New American City.” 
The board unanimously approved a motion 
during a Friday meeting to support UF’s Stra-
tegic Development Plan, which looks to trans-
form the city and the UF community over the course of 50 years. 
Some of the ideas of the plan include ex-panding cultural areas at UF, establishing a start-up business culture and creating more buildings in areas around Newell Drive and West University Avenue, according to Alligator archives.
The board also approved a contract be-
tween the university and graduate assistants, 
as well as the concept of bond to build a park-
ing garage on Museum Road. It will need to be approved by the Florida Board of Governors.
Funding for the development plan will 
come from UF’s funding campaign, which is aiming to raise $3 billion. Anita Zucker, a trustee, announced the campaign for funding has secured $897 million. 
She added that donors Andrew and Pamela 
Banks have confirmed they will be giving a $30 million endowment to go to UF faculty and stu-dents. 
Zucker encouraged the board members to 
help the campaign, adding that 54 percent of the board members have already contributed. Trustee Mori Hosseini encouraged them to take part.“I think sitting here today, we as the board 
members are to make that commitment our-selves,” he said. “We’re committed, and we will do what we can because it starts from us.”
UF President Kent Fuchs said raising the 
money needed won’t be easy.
“This $3 billion campaign is not only truly 
transformational for the university, but it is truly a leadership campaign in our nation,” he said. “To stretch as an institution and to stretch as individuals, that’s how we achieve our goals.”
Board of Trustees aims to help raise $3 billion for UF, build garageSHE SAID THE OFFICERS 
LOOKED CUTE.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
The last dance for one Gainesville 
woman — before her arrest Satur-day — was a twerking spell on her car.
It was 3:15 a.m. when Gainesville 
Police found Danielle Lanae Jeffer-son, 35, dancing to loud rap music in the 120 block of NE 20th St., ac-cording to a police report.
The officers were responding to 
a noise complaint placed by Jeffer-son’s neighbors, alleging Jefferson had been playing the music for more than 20 minutes. 
They asked her to turn down the 
music, but she refused, twerking on her vehicle while she spoke to the officers, according to the report.
Police then issued her a noise-
warning notice and gave her 15 minutes to comply, but she started twerking again. She said police could arrest her if they wanted, ac-cording to the report.
The officers then issued her a 
citation and asked her to sign it. In-stead, she crum-pled it and threw it at an officer’s 
chest, leading to 
her arrest on a charge of resisting an officer without violence, accord-ing to the report.
Following her 
arrest, Jefferson told an officer she thought he was “cute” and wanted 
to keep him around to “argue,” ac-
cording to the report.
Police took Jefferson to the Ala-
chua County Jail, where she was re-leased Saturday on her own recog-nizance. She could not be reached for comment.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgGainesville woman twerks 
on car, ignores officers
Jefferson
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORThe battle was won, 
but the war continues
On Sunday, the Dakota Access pipeline saga ﬁ  nally came 
to an end.
For the two of you who don’t know about the Dakota  
Access pipeline, let us brieﬂ  y ﬁ  ll you in. Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners started building a $3.8-billion 
pipeline, according to The Associated Press. For the most part, they completed it. The pipeline would have been about 1,200 miles long and would have carried 470,000 barrels of crude oil each day from North Dakota to several production areas in Il-linois. One portion underneath Lake Oahe went incomplete.
Lake Oahe is the sole supplier of drinking water to the Stand-
ing Rock Indian Reservation, a reservation that is the home of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe. A single break in the pipeline, some-thing that is by no means uncommon for these things, would 
contaminate the water supply to all of Standing Rock’s inhabit-
ants.
Moreover, in areas that would be altered to accommodate the 
pipeline lay important cultural sites and sacred burial grounds. To build the pipeline would require the destruction of those lands. 
Not only have Native Americans, both of Standing Rock and 
other tribes, come together to protest the building of this pipeline, but they’ve also been met with help of many other environmen-tally concerned protesters, who have traveled from all around the 
country to join Standing Rock in their ﬁ  ght against Energy Trans-
fer Partners. The response by Native Americans from around North America has been so large that scholars maintain it’s the largest gathering of Native American tribes in the last 100 years. 
At its height, an estimated 3,000 pipeline-resistance support-
ers and more than 300 federally recognized Native American tribes have resided in the camp. The clashes between protest-ers and police peaked when unarmed protesters were tear-gassed and pepper-sprayed, bitten by guard dogs — six people had been 
hospitalized for wounds — shot at with rubber bullets and hosed 
down with water in below-freezing temperatures.
We here at the Alligator do not believe these protestors de-
served to be treated like misplaced and uncooperative cattle. Sure, some have been using this protest like some of our peers use a music festival. Others have been, perhaps, legally over-stepping their boundaries in expressing their discontent. By all means, it is absolutely fair to arrest those few for their behavior. Given that these people are often uncooperative, it’s understand-
able that aggressive force should be used. But the aforementioned 
methods were absolutely unjustiﬁ  ed.
For those of us standing with those at Standing Rock miles 
away, good news was delivered yesterday. The Army Corps of Engineers told the Standing Rock Sioux chairman that the current route of the pipeline would not be pursued and that Lake Oahe would remain untouched.
Sadly, this is not a total and complete victory. The pipeline 
will still be built, granted in areas that are more appropriate. The 
pipeline will still be moving thousands of gallons of crude oil 
across the U.S., and a leak could still compromise the health of countless ecosystems. But this shouldn’t be a problem in the ﬁ  rst place. We, as a country, are capable of making our earth a bit greener to combat (the scientiﬁ  cally undeniable) dangers that climate change poses to our race. We need to move away from grimy fossil fuels and toward sustainable and no-waste green en-ergy alternatives.
We’ve made some amazing progress in this ﬁ  eld. The number 
of jobs that could be brought into this country by investing in sustainable-energy practices would be amazing and, more than likely, wouldn’t result in a horrible and destructive protest move-ment. Let’s spare the unnecessary carnage when we can. 
Not all shows and franchises are meant for revivals
It’s become increasingly common for re-
boots, remakes and sequels to be pro-duced for ﬁ  lms and series that were cre-
ated in the recent past. 
Each of these is an opportunity to be 
more inclusive, but more often than not, cre-
ators do not actually do this. Even if fans are clamoring for more of their favorite show, it’s not always a good idea to indulge them.
The most recent example is “Gilmore 
Girls,” which premiered on Netﬂ  ix during the 
week of Thanksgiving. Anticipation for its release was 
fueled by speculation about the last four words, which 
were planned by creator Amy Sherman-Palladino. They were never heard prior to the revival, because she left the show before the last season.
Despite all of the hype, the revival lost a lot of what 
made “Gilmore Girls” interesting — the fact that Rory was grounded in Stars Hollow by characters like Sookie and Lane was crucial to the original series, and in the revival, she lost a lot of her realism. Rory went through 
the whole revival claiming she was broke, but she took 
several ﬂ  ights to London to stay with her engaged ex-boyfriend. It could have made an interesting plot if Rory had realized how self-centered and unrealistic she was, but this never actually happens.
Although “Gilmore Girls” has always featured women 
at its center, it’s far from feminist. The revival misunder-stands pride parades, mocks fat people and pushes its characters of color even further to the side. Even though 
there was a plot that involved Michel potentially leaving 
Stars Hollow if the Dragonﬂ  y Inn did not expand, it was hardly resolved. Lane, Rory’s Korean-American friend, had minimal involvement. They managed to make “Gilmore Girls” whiter than it was, which I thought was 
impossible. A Tumblr page called Gilmore Blacks was 
created to highlight how black actors were given mostly non-speaking roles.  
Another reboot that started this year was 
“MacGyver.” I grew up watching the show 
on DVD, but the revival strayed away from 
its innovative roots and made the show more glamorous. The 20 minutes that I made myself watch were torturous when it came to plot. 
And then they introduced the token black 
character: MacGyver’s roommate. It is actu-ally possible to write shows that are inclusive and well written, but “MacGyver” is not an 
example.  
Often it’s better to leave a story alone — to have a 
couple of great seasons rather than dragging out a revival that does not live up to expectations. People who may have started with the newer version of the show may not 
feel any reason to go back and watch old episodes even 
though they were better. 
Revivals are too focused on giving the audience what 
it wants in terms of plot, but the character development doesn’t get enough attention. Often the best parts of a 
series are the parts the audience didn’t like at ﬁ  rst but 
were what needed to happen.
Rebooted and revived series cannot stay within the 
era in which they were made; they must live up to to-
day’s standards of inclusivity. However, series such as 
“Gilmore Girls” often don’t take the opportunity to be more diverse, even though there were new white char-acters introduced. Although it’s great that some remakes attempt to be more inclusive, such as “Ghostbusters,” it 
would be more meaningful to create a franchise that is 
female-centric from the beginning. 
Let’s push for new stories that originate with diverse 
characters instead of pushing them to the side or having 
them be an afterthought.
Nicole Dan is a political science and journalism ju-
nior. Her column appears on Mondays.MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
Well, dear readers, the 
end is near. The end of the semester, that is. To those of you who are graduating, congratula-
tions! I hope from the bottom of my heart that life treats you well and that you accomplish everything you hope to. To those of you who are not graduating, good luck on ﬁ  nals, and I’ll see you right back here on this page next year! For my last col-umn of the year, I’d like to not focus on endings but, rather, beginnings.
I’m a big fan of New Year’s 
resolutions. However, I’ve come to realize these are often ineffective. They sound great in theory, and it is often much easier to stick to one life improvement than to attempt a massive overhaul. This year seems different to me. I don’t know if I’m alone in thinking this, but I feel the world could use a fresh start. I know we can’t just wipe the slate clean and start over from scratch just as the clock hits midnight Jan. 1. We can’t just ﬁ  x the planet and end all conﬂ  ict as easily as we can turn the page on the calendar, but there are some things we do have control over.
We can control our 
contribution to our earth. It’s not going to be quick. It’s not going to be easy. But it is possible. We can’t control everyone in the world, but we can control ourselves. Re-member that not all resources are inﬁ  nite. Remember that millions of people don’t have access to clean water. Try not to be wasteful. You don’t have to uproot your entire life (unless you think you need to), but keep this issue in mind. It takes a lot of water to produce a pound of beef. You don’t have to become a vegetarian if you don’t want to, but try to have one meatless meal per week. One time when you’d usually have meat with a meal, don’t. It may seem inconsequen-tial, but you are making a difference.
We can control how 
we treat each other. We aren’t all going to get along. We’re humans. Humans argue and dis-agree. This doesn’t give 
us the right to spread hatred. Al-low others to have their opinions, but stand up for yours, too. Re-specting the human race does not just include being kind to others. Be kind to yourself. You deserve respect just as much as everyone else. If you are being overlooked or mistreated, don’t bear it in silence. Treat others how you wish to be treated. This is something we’re taught at such a young age but seem to forget all too easily. Spread the love. You may not always get it back, but it’s better to be the one promoting love than the one refus-ing to accept it.
We can control how we react. 
Sometimes in life, we don’t get what we want or deserve. We get passed over for a position, we get squashed when we try to make a difference or we are ignored when we have a good idea. While we can’t control what happens to us, we can control where we go from here. We can control what we do to ﬁ  x problems and to get the most out of failure. I will not promise that you will not fail in 2017, but I will promise that each failure will come with an opportunity to improve go-ing forward.
Happy holidays, and a happy 
new year to you, dear readers. I wish you nothing but the best for 2017, and as always, Go Gators.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF psychol-
ogy and journalism sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.
Until next time: some words of farewell for seniors, studentsColumn
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgLetter to the Editor
$80,000 for Arianna Hufﬁ  ngton's speech is appalling
A big — as in HUGE — editorial 
is needed concerning the outrageous 
sums Accent Speakers Bureau pays to 
speakers.  The $80,000 that will go to Arianna Hufﬁ  ngton is just the latest outrage. (I'm a liberal so my objection 
is not political.) 
There was a time in the not-too-
distant past when speakers at colleges 
received travel-related expenses and 
perhaps a small stipend — an hono-
rarium. The huge fees now paid are especially inexcusable at a time when so much focus is on the cost of college and student debt. 
Most egregious is paying enor-
mous sums to government ﬁ  gures, current or retired, who love to call themselves public servants. Hypo-crites? 
You guys ultimately pay these 
guys. Speak up!
— Geoff Pietsch, Gainesville resi-
dent8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016
MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
From right: Santa Claus, who has been coming to the Thomas Center for the past eight years, asks 
Cameron Reno, 9, what he wants for Christmas on Saturday night. Santa had given him and his brother Ethan Reno, 2, a football last year, so the boys brought it back for an updated signature and a few throws for pictures.
Diane Sherley, 68, conducts members of the Gainesville Harmony Show Chorus as they sing a cappella Christmas carols in the Thomas Center on Saturday night. Sherley has been with the choir since its inception 42 years ago.
As the holiday season draws near, Gainesville 
has begun its transformation.
On Saturday night, a roughly 30-foot-tall holiday 
tree lit up the Thomas Center as Mayor Lauren Poe 
wished “peace on Earth and goodwill” to a crowd 
of families. 
“You see all the young kids, and they’re super 
excited,” Poe said. “They can’t wait to see Santa. 
They can’t wait to see the lights come on. It kind of takes you back to when you were a kid, and you remember all that excitement.”
This year, the city spent $30,000 on environmen-
tally friendly LED lights, lasers, light projectors and 48 street banners for Gainesville’s four main cultural 
hubs: Depot Park, Bo Diddley Community Plaza, the 
Thomas Center and City Hall, said Charles Zidar, the City of Gainesville’s assistant cultural affairs man-ager.Gainesville’s Christmas Spirit
Photos by Emma Green
Alligator StaffMONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $325 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
12-7-16-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22BR - Small pet ok$535/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law school, bus to SFC. Pool, living room fur-nished. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sq ft. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo or small 1BR $375/mo. Call/ text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    1-5-16-11-2
BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE down -
town. 5 br, 2 ba, wood floors. 320 NW 1st Street. $2500 per month total, individual leases per bedroom. Call 352-256-5921 or email simpsonm@ufl.edu.     1-4-16-7-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor in LR. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com      12-6-16-5-2
WHAT A FIND FOR SPRING SEMESTER! 2/2, 3rd floor condo in Campus Edge. Vaulted ceilings, pool view, on campus. Amazing lo-cation. $1000/mo. Spring semester only. Call Aimee 352-514-0482    1-4-16-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!AVAILABLE JAN 1ST - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     1-13-16-15-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Navy Blue Jamison Sleeper Sofa
Slept on 3 times. Great condition. Asking 
$200. Call Kate 352-317-3301     12-5-16-1-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10★★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★★
Southern red cedar & Arizona cypress, 3-30 
gal. $9-75. Open Sat & Sun 10am - 6pm. 
Nov 26th - Dec 24th. 20926 NW 75th St., 
Alachua. BK Cedars. 386-418-8031    12-7-
16-10-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
STOLEN SCOOTER! Last seen on 11/28 at 10pm in a neighborhood on SE 16th AVE. Make & Model: 2014 Black Buddy 50CC. Plate: MBVM99 06-17. Missing an exhaust guard, has a UF decal, & has coffee stains by the cup holder and floor mat. Contact GPD or marivalparish@gmail.com Reward $$$      12-7-16-3-111For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedMONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              12-7-6-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
ACROSS
1 Poets
6 Ocean breaker
10 Former Iranian
ruler
14 From another
planet
15 Golfer’s club
selection
16 Golfer’s target
17 What the star gets
on a marquee
19 Express
checkout lane
unit
20 “__ Haw”21 Contemptuous
manner, in slang
22 “Pet” annoyance23 Dejected26 Wrap tightly, as
in bandages
30 Poker holding
31 Charged atoms
32 Madame of
physics
34 Guy’s partner
37 Level of optimal
accomplishment
41 Bygone jet,
briefly
42 Act with passion
43 Caution44 Song at the Met45 Like most
peanuts
47 Meeting of world
leaders
52 Name on rented
trailers
53 Lane with a nose
for news
54 Pasta suffix
57 Dirt road grooves58 Honorable ... and
like the starts of17-, 23-, 37- and47-Across
61 Emancipated
62 Pigmented eye
layer
63 Watchdog
warning
64 Part of NIMBY65 Swiss capital66 Foul, weather-
wise
DOWN
1 It’s drawn in a tub2 Natural skin
soother3 Unlike green
tomatoes
4 Star of the ball
5 Tattletale
6 Witty Oscar
7 Astrological Ram8 Maria __ Trapp
9 Subj. with
grammar
10 Handheld riot gear
11 Marriott facility12 Advil competitor13 Macho guys18 Tempt22 “The Hunger
Games” nation
24 Severe pang25 Carnival26 Drinks that make
a drink last
27 Troubles
28 Vet sch. course
29 Disdainful click
32 Zagreb native33 N.Y.-based
educators’ union
34 Insect in a dusk
swarm
35 Realtor’s lot unit36 Allow to borrow38 Danger39 Give out40 Tapered tool
44 Tickled45 Less than 1%?
46 Give, as
homework
47 Like the beach
during a storm
48 “Star Trek”
lieutenant
49 Alma __
50 Rags-to-riches
author Horatio
51 Lindsay who
played Liz in “Liz& Dick”54 Wedding
promises
55 Mature eft56 Relaxed way to
sit by
58 O’Hare, for
United 
Airlines
59 “__ been 
thinking ... ”
60 Org. 
promoting 
hunter safety
By Brock Wilson©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/05/1612/05/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, December 5, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
NOW HIRING SERVERSApply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
1-6-16-13-14
PT cleaner needed M-F &every other 
Saturday..weekly pay 8.50/hr must have your own transportation 20-30 hrs a week..must pass a drug/background check.. if in-terested please call 352-214-0868     12-5-16-5-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    12-7-7-14
Part-time, hourly - Garden upgrade & maintenance. Will train. Near UF.
Call 352-505-5254      12-7-5-14
Want to make a positive impact in the lives of girls in this community? Visit GirlsPlace.net/employment to apply. Hiring for multiple positions.      12-7-16-5-14
We are seeking for graphic designers that want to do something different from the or-dinary. What we want is talent, passion, mo-tivation and a solution-oriented approach. Students or fresh graduated. Our studio: www.dibari-id.com If you are interested please contact us at: carnovali@dibari-id.com     12-7-16-3-14
We are seeking for creative copywriters who are looking for a chance to set their creativ-ity free. We want passion, motivation and a extraordinary talent in creative writing. Students or fresh graduated. Our design stu-dio: www.dibari-id.com Contact: carnovali@dibari-id.com    12-7-16-3-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-13-16-11-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
1. Entering 2016, who are the only 
three players to have won the follow-
ing awards: a Gold Glove, a Silver 
Slugger and a Cy Young? 
2. When was the last time before 
2015 that the Houston Astros had two 
pitchers win at least 17 games apiece?
3. Who was the first player in NFL 
history to have 1,000 receiving yards and 1,000 return yards in the same season?
4. Maryland’s Diamond Stone set a 
school record in 2015 for most points in a game by a freshman men’s bas-ketball player (39). Who had held the mark?
5. NHL legend Gordie Howe was 
a member of the famed “Production 
Line” starting in 1947. Name the two 
other Hall of Fame members of the original trio.
6. When was the last time before 
2016 that Romania failed to medal in women’s gymnastics at the Olym-pics?
7. In 2016, golfer Andrew Landry 
set a record for the lowest open-ing-round score (66) at a U.S. Open played at Oakmont (Pa.). Who had held the record? 
Answers
1. Zack Greinke, Orel Hershiser and 
Fernando Valenzuela.
2. In 2005, Andy Pettitte won 17 
games and Roy Oswalt won 20.
3. Antonio Brown of the Pittsburgh 
Steelers, in 2011.
4. Joe Smith, with 33 points in 1993.
5. Ted Lindsay and Sid Abel.
6. It was 1972.
7. Ben Hogan (1953) and Gary Play-
er (‘73) each shot a 67.
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
December 5, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Austin Appleby and the Gators were blown out by Alabama on Saturday. For pictures from the game, see our photo story on pg. 14 "Let's say you've been going to work four hours every day. You're getting a paycheck. Are you gonna be upset when you get a bonus?"
- Alabama defensive end Da'Shawn Hand, 
after he was asked if blowing out opponents is boringATLANTA — Burn 
the redshirt. 
Shower Florida fans 
with what they’ve been asking for. 
After Alabama’s 54-
16 drubbing of Florida in the Southeastern Conference Champion-ship Game, one thing is apparent: It’s time to give Feleipe Franks or Kyle Trask a shot.
That call for either freshman 
quarterback could’ve been made af-ter Austin Appleby ﬂ  ung up his third interception of the ﬁ  rst half on Sat-urday, which, by the way, no other quarterback has ever done in cham-pionship game history. 
It even could’ve been made at 
halftime, when Florida trailed the Crimson Tide by 17 points. 
And after UF’s offense stalled and 
failed to score in the second half, it’s clear that coach Jim McElwain needs to ditch Appleby’s mediocrity and unchain one of the ﬁ  rst-year signal callers. 
Following the loss, McElwain didn’t rule out the idea for the bowl game. 
He will after all, 
have about a month to prepare a guy like Franks for his ﬁ  rst career start.
“That’s one of those 
deals I think we have to sit down with them and 
their parents and handlers and all that,” McElwain said. “I’m not sure it’s fair, but at the same time, I know they want to play. So we’ll see.”
What’s there to see?Both Franks and Trask have 
gained experience all fall in practice, and what better time than now to at least see what one of them can do?
Yes, it would seem odd to a burn 
a redshirt this late in the season. 
But Florida is going to recruit 
plenty of quarterbacks in the coming years, and the only way for McEl-wain to know if Franks or Trask is a star quarterback is by throwing one of them in the ﬁ  re the same way Nick Saban did with Jalen Hurts this year.  Enough is enough: It’s time to give the freshmen a shot at quarterback NO, THIS IS PATRICK / OPINION 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Kyle Trask (11) and Feleipe Franks (13) call out signals to Austin Appleby during Florida's 54-16 loss to Alabama in Saturday's SEC Championship Game. Appleby has one game left at Florida. 
Patrick Pinak
twitter: @pinakk12
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
After a back-and-forth ﬁ  rst 
half, the Florida women’s basket-
ball team exploded in the third 
quarter. Heading into the ﬁ  nal 10 
minutes of their championship match at the Arizona State Clas-sic, UF had earned the ﬁ  rst dou-ble-digit lead of the game. 
It evaporated in minutes. Surrendering 30 points in the 
fourth quarter, No. 19 Florida (6-2) was upset by unranked Arizo-
na State (5-2), 69-63, on Sunday.  
“We’re going to have to look 
at the ﬁ  lm, and there are going to 
be a lot of things we’ll be disap-
pointed (in) when we see,” coach Amanda Butler said in a release. 
“Arizona State is a good team and they made us pay when we took 
plays off.”
Contested from the opening 
tip, neither team was able to sep-
arate from the other in the ﬁ  rst 
half. The ﬁ  rst 20 minutes of ac-
tion featured ﬁ  ve lead changes, and neither team built an advan-tage greater than seven points.
Fighting from behind for most 
of the half, sophomore Eleanna Christinaki led the scoring charge for Florida, notching 10 points on 4-of-7 shooting. No other Gator 
scored more than four points. 
However, despite trailing for 
over 12 minutes, UF managed to 
tie the game at 30 heading into 
the intermission. 
That momentum carried over 
into the second half. 
Outscoring the Sun Devils 21-
9, the Gators got contributions from six different scorers in the third frame. Florida bookended its 
strong showing with two scoring runs — an 8-1 burst in the ﬁ  rst 
minute of play and a 7-0 surge to 
close out. 
Working with a 12-point edge, 
Florida’s typically stout defense 
had a seemingly routine task 
ahead of it. 
Arizona State had other plans. “I think we came out in the Gators drop tournament title  game against Arizona State
IT WAS SENIOR ALEX HOLSTON'S 
LAST COLLEGE MATCH.
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
After winning the match’s ﬁ  rst two 
sets, the No. 11-ranked UF volleyball team dropped three straight sets to lose to No. 
16 Florida State in the second round of the NCAA Tournament on Saturday.
It was the Gators’ earliest tournament 
exit since 2013 — Florida advanced to the 
Elite Eight each of the last two seasons.
“Easily one of the most disappointing 
losses,” Florida coach Mary Wise said after the match.
Despite the outcome, the Gators played 
impressively in the ﬁ  rst two sets. They vast-ly outperformed the Seminoles on offense, hitting .630 and .548 in the ﬁ  rst two frames.
But over the last three sets, Florida was 
out-hit .194 to FSU’s .332.
“It was like two different teams,” Flori-
da State coach Chris Poole said. “Once we 
started gaining some steam, and once we 
started believing what we were doing out there … that made the difference in the match.”
Saturday marked the end of a college career for senior hitter Alex Holston. While 
other players struggled late in the match, 
Holston carried the team, earning a match-high 13 kills after the second set.
“I’m so sorry that her career had to end 
on that note and lose that way,” Wise said. “I thought Alex gave us everything she had.”
For a team that saw eight freshmen and Florida volleyball  suﬀ  ers rare early exit from NCAA Tournament
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15UF blew a fourth-quarter leadWOMEN'S BASKETBALL14   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016
to the same teams by a combined 
score of 85-29. 
In the Citrus Bowl, the Gators 
got demolished by Michigan — which the Gators will play to open 
the 2017 season — in a 41-7 de-
bacle. But in the Outback Bowl, UF 
coach Jim McElwain is hoping for a 
different result.
“I was really disappointed, ob-
viously, in the effort last year,” he 
said, “but this is a different team.”
Iowa is also a different team 
from last year’s Michigan. The Wol-verines finished the 2015 season 
ranked No. 4 in total defense and No. 69 in total offense. Iowa, mean-while, enters the Outback Bowl  No. 24 in total defense and No. 120 in total offense. 
For comparison, Florida ranks 
No. 6 and No. 115, respectively. 
Florida’s matchup with Iowa will 
mark the fourth-ever meeting be-tween the two teams, with the last coming in the 2005 Outback Bowl. The Gators lead the series 2-1. 
Regardless of the opponent or 
the records or the rankings, though, McElwain stressed the importance of a win and continuing to build the Florida football program.
“We open up with a big oppo-
nent (Michigan) next year in Dal-las,” he said. “So the Bowl game itself, we’ve got to go play hard and put a plan together and win. The guys have got to go compete, not be afraid.”
Some Florida players are guar-
anteed to play their final collegiate game in the Outback Bowl while others could join them if they choose to. 
Seniors Jarrad Davis, Bryan Cox 
Jr., Chris Thompson and Austin Ap-pleby, for example, will all end their UF careers at the Outback Bowl. Meanwhile, players who aren’t 
seniors but could still declare for the NFL Draft — Tabor, Quincy Wilson, Caleb Brantley and even redshirt junior punter Johnny Townsend, among others — could also  suit up as college athletes for the final time. 
But as some careers come to an 
end, others could begin. 
After the loss to Alabama, McEl-
wain was asked about the possibil-ity of playing a freshman quarter-back — either Feleipe Franks or Kyle Trask — in the bowl game. 
And the second-year coach, 
knowing that his team needs an injection of offensive playmaking, didn’t rule out the possibility. 
However, after addressing that 
deficiency, McElwain added that there are some positives to take into the bowl game. Nobody expect-ed his team to make it to the SEC Championship Game again this sea-son, he noted, and that his players can use that as motivation moving forward. 
“They’ve just got to close out the 
noise from the outside and bond to-gether,” he said, “and let’s just go win and not worry about anybody else.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg.1McElwain hasn’t ruled out starting a freshman QB vs. IowaAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Alabama coach Nick Saban, quarterback Jalen Hurts (2) and others celebrate after Alabama’s 54-16 win over Florida in the SEC Championship Game on Saturday. Hurts threw for 138 yards and one touchdown in Alabama’s third-straight SEC title game victory. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Tight end DeAndre Goolsby catches one of his seven receptions on Saturday against Alabama.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain comforts Caleb Brantley on the Florida sideline.
MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
ATTENTION
We will be closed 
during the break
due to renovations 
at the Reitz Union
CLOSING
Monday, Dec. 19 
at 5:00 p.m.
OPENING  
Monday, Jan. 2 
at 12:00 p.m.
352-379-4686REITZ UNION
Barber Shop
UNDER RENOVATION
Please Plan Accordinglythird quarter and showed how 
tough we are,” Butler said, “and then we just weren’t able to sus-
tain it.”
The Sun Devils gashed the 
Gators, sinking their ﬁ  nal nine 
shots and converting 92.9 per-
cent of their ﬁ  eld goal attempts 
in the quarter. 
Hampered by foul trouble, Florida was also outrebounded 
10-5, losing the turnover battle 
in the process. 
“We got beat by a good 
team,” Butler said. “This is a 
chance for us to grow.”
That opportunity for growth 
begins when the Gators head to 
Tallahassee on Dec. 8 to square off against Florida State
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.org BASKETBALL,  from pg. 13Arizona State converted its 
last nine shots of the game
nine newcomers enter the roster 
this season, making it to the sec-ond round of the NCAA Tourna-
ment with such a young squad 
may be considered a success.
However, UF players didn't see 
it that way.
“Absolutely not,” UF libero 
Caroline Knop said. “Winning an SEC Championship, to be com-pletely honest, means nothing to me or our team. We were in it to 
win a national championship and 
we had the talent to do so.
“This will not happen again.”
@skylerlebron
slebron@alligator.orgVOLLEY,  from pg. 13Knop: 'Winning an SEC Championship, to 
be completely honest, means nothing to me.'
Yes, the same Jalen Hurts who 
led the Crimson Tide past the Gators 
on Saturday for a third-straight SEC title. 
And yes, the same Jalen Hurts 
who has led his team to a 13-0 record and another College Football Playoff berth. 
With Florida in danger of falling 
to 8-5 in a similar fashion to last sea-son’s ending, McElwain is feeling the heat. 
He knows he doesn’t have much 
time to ﬁ  nd and develop a quarter-back. 
“That’s something we’ve got to 
do,” he said Saturday. “We’ve got to make sure that happens sooner or later, and that’s my responsibility, and it will get done.”
Make it happen, McElwain.Florida fans are waiting. Patrick Pinak is the online editor. 
You can contact him at ppinak@al-ligator.org and follow him on Twitter @pinakk12.COLUMN,  from pg. 13
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain looks on during Florida's loss to Alabama in the SEC Championship Game. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Eleanna Christinaki drives to the hoop during Florida's 80-72 win over Alabama on Jan. 21 in the O'Connell Center.
Jordan McPherson  / Alligator Staff
Mary Wise talks to her players during UF's win over Marshall on Sept. 17 in the Lemerand Athletic Center. 16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2016
