We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 23 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016
Callaway listed as probable for 
Saturday’s game
He leads the team in receiving yards, pg. 16
Band comes to GNV for 10th-anniversary show
Cute is What We Aim For to perform at High Dive, pg. 8
UF debuts new play about ethnicity, identity
“The New Mrs. T esman” will open Friday, pg. 9Would you swipe right on us?
See our story about Tinder’s update, pg. 3
By Katie Mellinger
Alligator Contributing Writer
Known for its cheap alcohol and 
cramped dance ﬂ  oor, Grog House Bar and 
Grill will celebrate 20 years of drunken de-
bauchery tonight.
After opening in 1996, the bar, located 
at 1718 W. University Ave., has become a 
Midtown mainstay. On any given Friday 
night, hundreds of students can be seen 
trudging up Grog’s narrow stairwell and onto its main ﬂ  oor, where top-40 hits blare through humid air and foggy memo-ries are made.
And after two decades in business, 
nothing has changed: The bar’s lively at-mosphere and pounding music still keep crowds coming — to the tune of about 
1,500 guests every weekend, said Patrick 
Smith, Grog’s manager and partial owner.
To ring in the anniversary, the bar will 
offer free entry and 20-cent well drinks, Smith said.
“We remodeled the bar, but all of the 
specials are exactly the same from when we started,” Smith said. “I think our spe-cials are what set us apart and keep stu-
dents coming back.”
And while the budget-friendly liquor 
and a live disc jockey serve as major at-
tractors, Grog also gives students the chance to add to their repository of col-
lege stories.
Johan Rivera, a 20-year-old applied 
physiology and kinesiology junior, said he 
regularly parties at Grog and has seen his 
fair share of bizarre incidents there.
“On one of my ﬁ  rst visits, I remember 
seeing a girl fall down the stairs of the en-
trance,” he said. “I’ve also heard of a girl who had to break out of the bar at 3 a.m. 
because she passed out in the bathroom 
and got locked in.”Rivera said he is happy the bar is still 
around and that over the years it has so-
lidiﬁ  ed itself as a campus treasure. Smith 
expressed the same sentiment.
“Grog has become a Gator tradition,” 
Smith said.
Marie Fernicola, a UF mechanical engi-
neering senior, said she has gone to Grog on more than 10 occasions during her time as a student. She even spent a birth-day there, she said.
Although the bar’s wild environment 
brings about equally wild behavior, a night spent there is usually a good time, she said.
“Grog is characterized by bad deci-
sions,” Fernicola said with a smile.
But it remains one of the best ways to 
decompress in the middle of a busy se-mester, said Maria Paula Vargas, a UF ac-
counting junior.
The 21-year-old said Grog’s diverse 
array of music and the welcoming atmo-
sphere will keep her coming back for as long as she attends UF.
“It is the perfect pick-me-up after a long 
week of school and stress,” Vargas said.
She said Grog’s welcoming environ-
ment attracts her to return.
While many students like Fernicola and 
Vargas have been to Grog on multiple oc-casions, for some, the bar’s atmosphere is a bit too much to handle.
Chandler Small, a 19-year-old theatre 
sophomore, has visited Grog once and 
does not plan to return.
“I can understand why some people en-
joy going to Grog with its close and con-
venient location, but I’d rather spend my 
time actually enjoying the atmosphere of 
the places I go to,” Small said. “I don’t want to be covered in sweat and other people’s stink.”  A 20-year buzz: Grog House 
celebrates anniversary
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
PAUSING FOR PEACE
Ivan T apia, a 26-year-old UF chemical engineering junior, looks at the Peace Pole 
that stood on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday afternoon in honor of the International Day of Peace. “T o me, this monument with a lot of foreign languages represents union, ” T apia said. “Peace knows no language. ” Read the full story on the International Day of Peace online at alligator.org.
By Melissa Gomez and 
Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writers
UF’s chapter of Beta Theta Pi 
Fraternity was placed on probation 
Wednesday after allegations of hazing were investigated.
Initially placed on a “subject to suspension” status, the 117-member fraternity was placed on probation after an internal investigation found “practices of concern” regarding the organization’s recruitment and its ed-ucation of new members, according to a letter the Beta Theta Pi national 
headquarters sent to the chapter Mon-
day.On Aug. 10, after an anonymous 
email was sent to the Dean of Stu-dents Ofﬁ  ce, the ofﬁ  ce’s Student Con-duct and Conﬂ  ict Resolution depart-ment contacted prospective members of the chapter, Jen Day Shaw, the dean of students, said. 
The email addressed hazing dur-
ing Fall 2015 and Spring 2016, alleg-ing that Beta Theta Pi pledges were forced to spend hours keeping an eye on a watermelon named “Walter,” which fraternity members said would be smashed if left unattended. If Wal-ter was smashed, an overnight vigil would be held, keeping the pledges 
up all night, Shaw said.
She said forcing students to stay awake could negatively impact their 
health and academic performance.
“You do not deserve to be hazed,” 
she said. “We don’t tolerate that at UF.”
Shaw said the department reached 
out to the UF chapter’s president with-
in 24 hours of receiving the email.
After hazing allegations, fraternity placed on probation
SEE HAZING,  PAGE 4It will ofer free entry, 20 -cent drinksSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  90° LOW  70°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘40’ film at UF
“40,” a compelling documentary 
that examines the effects of abor-tion on our nation and includes input from both pro-abortion 
and anti-abortion advocates, will 
be screened in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom today at 7 p.m. This special presentation, spon-sored by Gators for Life, will also include an appearance by anti-abortion advocate Le’yandria Murray. Former Fox Sports Networks Chicago sportscaster 
John Morales, the director and 
producer of “40,” will introduce the film. All are welcome.
Welcoming Week in Gainesville
Mayor Lauren Poe and County Commissioner Robert Hutchinson will read a procla-mation for Welcoming Week 
in Gainesville on the steps of 
Gainesville City Hall today at 5 p.m. Welcoming Week is an annual nationwide event that celebrates how immigrants, refugees and  international stu-dents and professionals contrib-ute to American communities. Organizations will offer infor-
mation about volunteer oppor-
tunities with projects to make Gainesville and Alachua County welcoming places for newcomers from around the world. For more information, contact welcoming-gainesville@gmail.com or visit welcominggainesville.org.
UF to debut new play
The UF School of Theatre and Dance presents “The New Mrs. Tesman,” an interpretation of Henrik Ibsen’s classic drama “Hedda Gabler” adapted and directed by professor Michael “Mikell” Pinkney. Set in the Canadian capital of Ottawa, this 
Hedda Gabler is dealing with the 
expectations set upon her as the daughter of Canada’s first black member of the Parliament of Canada in the late 1950s. The plot follows Ibsen’s play while investigating issues associated with class and gender and iden-tity politics. Performances will be 
held in the Black Box Theatre in 
the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion from Friday to Oct. 2. Performances begin at 7:30 p.m. Friday, Saturday and Tuesday until Oct. 1, and 2 p.m. Sunday and Oct. 2. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. More information 
can be found at arts.ufl.edu. 
Climb for Cancer Rock Climbing 
Competition
Come join PediaGators on Sunday from 9 a.m to 3 p.m. at the Sun Country Sports Center for a full day of family fun, food, and philanthropy as the group holds its first Take Flight for Climb for Cancer rock-climbing competi-tion and free climb. Register to 
climb at cfc-foundation.org/
TakeFlight for a chance to win prizes from Sqaure 1 Burgers, Youfit Health Clubs, Barre Forte and more. If a rock-climbing competition is too intimidating, you can also pay $10 to $15 to use the wall all day.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 23
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales Intern
Resume builder
Personalized classroom trainingFirst-hand sales experienceImprove communication skillsMinimum 10-hour work week
Email resume for internship to 
intern@alligator.orgSales Representative
Gain sales experience
Learn prospecting skillsImprove communication skillsFlexible scheduleNo weekendsEmail resume for sales rep position 
to Shaun O’Connor at 
soconnor@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Fal/l.end 2016
*Must be enrolled in fall classes 
at UF or Santa Fe to apply
THE NEW FEATURE 
LAUNCHED TUESDAY.
By Robyn Wilbar
Alligator Contributing Writer
In search of the “love of his life,” 
21-year-old Nico Tackfield logs onto 
Tinder about four nights a week.
And as of Tuesday, Tackfield and 
other users of the matchmaking app can 
choose to add soundtracks to their on-
line singles’ profiles, giving prospective 
matches some insight into their musical tastes.
Tinder announced Tuesday a new 
update that will allow users to sync 
their Spotify accounts to their Tinder 
profiles, enabling them to display their favorite music. 
With the update, they will be able to 
choose artists and singular “anthems” 
to appear on their profiles.
Tackfield said if he had an anthem, it would be “Guru” by Coast Modern. 
He said the electronic-reggae song 
captures his laid-back attitude and af-
finity for the beach.
“I’m all about the good vibes,” the 
UF civil engineering senior said.
To activate the new feature, users 
must visit their profile settings on Tin-der to connect their two accounts and 
then select what artists and anthems 
they would like to display on their pro-
files.
To Haylee Hammond, a 19-year-old 
UF microbiology sophomore who uses 
Tinder, the move makes perfect sense.
She said musical preferences hint at 
people’s personalities and would make finding matches easier.
“I think music is something that a 
lot of people can relate to,” she said. 
“I think that if you like similar artists 
or genres it can be a bonding point be-
tween people.”
  Students react after Tinder 
adds Spotify songs to proﬁ  lesWOULD YOU SWIPE 
RIGHT ON US?
We at the Alligator picked our favorite 
songs to see if our readers would swipe right solely based on our music choices. 
• Emily Cochrane, editor-in-chief — 
“Two Rocking Chairs” by Jon Bellion 
• Aaron Albright, online managing editor — “I am a God” by Kanye West 
• Caitlin Ostroff, freelance editor — “Piano Man” by Billy Joel 
• Paige Fry, staff writer — “Diane Young” by Vampire Weekend 
• Ian Cohen, sports editor — “Turn It Off” from “The  Book of Mormon” 
• Patrick Pinak, assistant sports editor — “I’ll Make a Man Out of You” from “Mulan”
• Mary-Lou Watkinson, copy desk chief — “Modern Soul” by James Blake 
• Katelyn Newberg, staff writer — “Colors” by Halsey
The Alligator
The Independent Florida Alligator
4   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016
While the chapter will not be al-
lowed to recruit new members this 
semester, it can still participate in extracurricular activities and events, according to a letter sent from Dan 
Farmer, the fraternity’s district chief, 
to the UF chapter’s president.
UF and the fraternity’s national 
headquarters have supported the UF chapter through the process, Matt Zwijacz, the president of the chap-ter, wrote in an email.
“As outlined in the status up-
grade letter from our General Frater-
nity, our chapter is not and has not 
been perfect,” Zwijacz said. “For that, we take full responsibility and are committed to doing things the right way to continue our success-ful, long-term presence at UF.”
He declined to answer questions regarding the speciﬁ  cs of the hazing incidents.
Shaw said UF takes every alle-
gation of hazing seriously. In cases where no physical harm is inﬂ  icted or there is no imminent danger, the case is reviewed by a committee that decides how the organization will be charged.
That was the case with Beta The-
ta Pi, Shaw said. 
The committee decided to have 
the fraternity investigated internally, meaning the national headquarters and the chapter will work together to address the matter, Shaw said. 
She said all the students and 
alumni of the fraternity were able to come together quickly and address the recent issue.
“We feel like it does a lot of 
good,” she said.
mgomez@alligator.org 
knewberg@alligator.org HAZING,  from pg. 1They can still hold activities
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
When Christine Lampp arrived 
at Chili’s Grill and Bar on Wednes-
day night, she said she thought it 
had been robbed.
She and her father stopped in 
after shopping at Butler Plaza, and 
they found police cars in the park-
ing lot and ﬁ  ve Gainesville Police 
ofﬁ  cers milling around the restau-
rant.
“Then one walked up to our 
table, and we really got scared,” Lampp said, “but he just asked what I wanted to drink.”
From 5 p.m. to 8 p.m., the of-
ﬁ  cers teamed up with the Chili’s staff at 3530 SW Archer Road to help the restaurant raise money for pediatric cancer research and St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital.
The chain’s corporate ofﬁ  ce do-
nated $350,000 at the beginning of 
September and asked its individual 
restaurants to help match the dona-tion, said Eric Santiago, the restau-rant’s general manager.
The ofﬁ  cers bustled around 
the restaurant in aprons, carrying drinks and writing orders on minia-ture notepads. All ﬁ  ve ofﬁ  cers vol-unteered to participate, said GPD 
spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
“It’s the ﬁ  rst time in a while that 
we’ve been able to do an event like 
this for the community,” he said.  “Any time we get any request to 
help out with a cause like this, we 
jump on it because it’s near and dear to all our hearts.”Lampp said when she and her 
father, David, realized what was going on, they were glad they stopped in for Southwestern Egg-
rolls.
“It’s surprising,” she said. “I 
live in Orlando, and I don’t know if 
the ofﬁ  cers there would have been as open and willing to do this.”
Santiago said the Archer loca-
tion needs to raise about $800 to reach its goal of $5,000.
“Management decided to reach 
out to GPD to make this a com-munity effort as well as the effort of the Chili’s team,” Santiago said. “They’ve all done a great job so far, no one has spilled anything.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org  GPD oﬃ   cers wait tables for a cause THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
HE IS ON PAID LEAVE PENDING 
AN INVESTIGATION.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a UF employee 
Tuesday for sexually battering a woman.
At about 8:45 p.m. Sep. 3, Charles Edward 
Overstreet, 58, was in the woman’s home dis-
cussing her history of sexual abuse when he 
made sexual advances toward her, according 
to a police report.
The woman told Overstreet she was not in 
a right state of mind and didn’t want to have sex, according to the report. Overstreet, who works at UF’s Physical Plant, then began to touch the woman and engage in oral sex. She repeatedly told him to stop and that he was hurting her.
Prior to the incident, the two had consen-
sual sex, but the woman didn’t consent to the advances Overstreet made afterward, accord-ing to the report.
UF placed Overstreet on paid adminis-
trative leave pending an investigation, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in an email. He is also banned from campus, she said.
On Saturday, at the urg-
ing of GPD ofﬁ  cers, the woman called Overstreet 
on a recorded line. During 
the conversation, Over-street said he never heard the woman tell him to stop 
or that he was hurting her, according to the report.
Overstreet told police 
he didn’t mean to hurt her, according to the report.
Police charged him with sexual battery and 
took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $20,000 bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  UF worker arrested for battery
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer 
Students now have a say in which musi-
cian and comedian will come to UF in Spring. 
Reitz Union Board Entertainment is asking 
students which entertainers they would like to see perform live at the Big Orange Festival on 
March 24, said Kaitlin Milligan, the president 
of RUB Entertainment.  
“We try to ﬁ  nd artists who are available 
and in budget,” the 21-year-old UF telecom-munication senior said. “Whoever is chosen from the survey, we will do our best to bring them.”
Milligan said the survey is up on RUB En-
tertainment’s social media platforms and will 
be available until Oct. 1. While the budget for 
the festival hasn’t been set, she said it would likely be similar to last year, when the two performers were paid a combined $81,000.
The options for musical performers are 
DNCE, Hailee Steinfeld, X Ambassadors, 
Troye Sivan, Matt and Kim and Tove Lo.
Comedians students can choose from are 
Hannibal Buress, Ali Wong, Colin Jost, Nasim 
Pedrad, Chris D’Elia, Demetri Martin, Mike Birbiglia and Damon Wayans Jr.
Courtney Rogers, a UF theatre production 
sophomore, said she thinks RUB Entertain-ment does a good job bringing in entertainers. 
“My top pick would be Ali Wong,” the 
19-year-old said. “She’s hilarious.” 
Her friend, Isabel Wasilewski, 19, agreed.“She’s become one of the more prominent 
female comedians,” the UF psychology sopho-more said. 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org Students can vote for 2017 
Big Orange Festival acts
Overstreet
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORRemember North 
Korea as you use 
American internet
The internet is a wonderful thing. On Monday, it blessed 
us with a strange yet immensely fascinating look into a previously mysterious corner of itself: North Korea’s internet. By some accounts, it’s hard to believe North Korea even has internet. But this past weekend, the 
doors were accidentally opened to North Korea’s websites — all 28 of them. For the citizens of the closed-off, dictator-led poverty-stricken nation, that basically is their internet. 
Honestly, it’s easy to make fun of North Korea, from Kim 
Jong-un’s fashion choices to the military’s failed tests and threats. But we’re not going to do that today. Instead, we’re going to take this chance to talk about North Korea using this new incredible insight as a guide to how the country portrays 
itself to itself. Remember, before Monday, these websites were 
for North Koreans only.
How exactly these websites were leaked and accessed in-
volves too much jargon to get into today. All you need to know 
is something within North Korea’s internet settings changed, 
allowing anyone outside of the country to access its list of 
websites. We only hope for the safety of whomever was in charge of those servers (and we mean that sincerely). North Korea isn’t known for simple slaps on the wrist.
As you peruse the list, you’ll notice a nicely curated chunk 
of basic services and websites you’d expect to find in any company. There’s a page for insurance, the university and the news. If you can’t read Korean, that’s OK — we can’t either. Thankfully, users on Reddit helped compile simple explana-tions of some of the websites. Ultimately, the kinds of websites available aren’t what’s surprising. Really, little of it is surpris-ing. North Korea runs a tight ship. This internet is a highly monitored, highly controlled entity of the government. In fact, it’s estimated only a few thousand people in North Korea have access to this internet, most of them being high-ranking gov-ernment officials.
Taking this leak as whole, it’s far more eerie than it is sur-
prising. These are websites that are probably used by the same people who probably indirectly helped make them. Though the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will never admit it, the country has a huge poverty and hunger problem. And yet there’s a lovely, clean website about everything you’d want to know about North Korea’s airline. Like much of the capital, Pyongyang, it’s sterile — too sterile. The sites are filled with propaganda, most of it naturally coming from the news web-sites.
Like the residents of the country itself, North Korea’s inter-
net users live in a vacuum. They are given a censored, con-trolled and monitored version of the internet. Then again, that isn’t really the internet, is it? The internet should be open, 
limitless, with the free flow of ideas and information. So much 
of our world — our lives — are on the internet, for better or 
for worse. Today, think about the people of North Korea and count your blessings. When you forward that cute cat video to a friend, find the perfect GIF to use in a group chat or use the 
dog filter on Snapchat for the millionth time, be thankful you 
live in a place where you can do those things freely.Surprise: The 2016 election actually has precedent
We are amid the most unusual presiden-
tial election of our lifetime. It features a career politician against a Washing-ton outsider; a liar versus a loose can-non. Hillary Clinton, the Democratic 
Party’s preferred choice, and her candidacy are unsurprising. And this time last year, few expect-ed Donald Trump to be the Republican Party’s nominee. His rise has rocked the political land-scape.
At times, it feels like American politics is in a 
precarious position. It’s not the first time the country has reached such a dramatic crossroads, though. It’s happened before. This election resonates with one in American his-
tory more than any other: the mudslinging slugfest that was 
the election of 1828, a victory for political outcast Andrew Jackson over incumbent John Quincy Adams.
Today’s candidates share remarkable similarities with 
their counterparts 188 years ago. Clinton resembles Adams; Trump echoes Jackson. To start, Clinton belongs to the po-litical elite, just as Adams did. She attended the prestigious Wellesley College and studied law at Yale University before becoming the first lady in 1993. She then served as a sena-
tor from New York from 2001 to 2009 and was secretary of 
state during President Barack Obama’s first term.
Likewise, Adams was viewed as privileged. The son of 
John Adams, a Founding Father and the second president, he studied at Harvard University before an extensive career in politics. In all, Clinton has spent 23 years in Washington. Prior to the 1828 election, Adams had spent 28.
On the flip side, Trump and Jackson share notable par-
allels. Both were in the public eye long before embarking 
on a political career late in life. Trump was a businessman, 
Jackson a war hero.
Trump had no political experience before he announced 
his candidacy for president. A simpleton from the Appala-chian backcountry, Jackson spent nine months as a repre-sentative from Tennessee, two-and-a-half years as a senator and nine months as the military governor of Florida. That’s it.Much of the bitterness in 1828 stemmed from 
the 1824 election, a victory of Adams over Jack-son. Because no candidate received a majority of the electoral votes, it remains the only election ever decided by the House of Representatives, 
which chose Adams.
Yet it gets more interesting. The House only 
picked Adams upon an endorsement from Speak-
er Henry Clay, who was later appointed secretary of state. Jackson, obviously, was furious.
Four years later, the 1828 election got ugly 
quickly. Adams’ supporters headed ruthless attacks against Jackson, even decrying the legitimacy of his marriage. Jack-son’s wife, Rachel, actually died shortly after the election. 
He blamed Adams. Jackson also attacked his rival with 
vengeance, calling the election four years earlier a “corrupt bargain.” Sound familiar?
Trump’s most dependable reproach of Clinton is that 
she is dishonest and untrustworthy, often referring to her as “Crooked Hillary” in tweets and speeches. He frequently cites the events in Benghazi, her email scandals and ques-tionable dealings involving the Clinton Foundation. Clinton is viewed as cold and distant, insincere and two-faced. So 
was Adams.
Meanwhile, Clinton’s attacks on Trump are of equal fe-
rocity: He is inexperienced. He can’t be trusted with power. 
He is temperamentally unfit to be president. He’s a racist. Trump is portrayed as a thin-skinned buffoon, a fool who is in over his head and has no business running for president. All of these denunciations were said about Jackson.
Trump’s rise cannot be ignored. His surge over the last 
year is indicative of an undercurrent of dissatisfaction with-
in American politics. He has struck the same chord with 
supporters that Jackson did all those years ago.
I don’t know if he will win. But just like Adams vs. Jack-
son, Clinton vs. Trump has featured mostly personal — not policy — attacks. And when that happens, the country loses.
Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His column appears on 
Thursdays.
Brian Lee
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
I love my mother, and I hate stereotypes 
about Asian women, but I’m going to come clean and say this: She is not a 
good driver. I, unfortunately, have in-
herited this trait from her. 
It’s not that we are bad drivers, per se. 
We are just overly cautious, and we second-
guess our driving moves. 
I’d like to think I am at least a bit better 
than her when it comes to turning into traf-ﬁ  c — once in my childhood, some man had to get out of his car to direct oncoming cars 
so she could turn — but my abysmal parking 
evens it out. 
We both get nervous when we drive in 
the rain, we both like to have someone else 
in the car to tell us if the lane is clear and we 
both change lanes as soon as we can so we 
don’t have to deal with it later.
My dad says we both need more prac-
tice, but I think our problem stems from 
another issue entirely.
See, my dad considers my younger sis-ter to be a better driver than my 
mother and me, and she’s deﬁ  -nitely had less driving experience 
than us. 
The thing is, she’s conﬁ  dent 
enough to quickly make a deci-
sion and then go with it, even if 
that decision involves almost hit-
ting the car in front of us because she thought she could make a light or grazing a car when she thought she had more room to 
back out. 
She makes her decisions quickly, even if 
they aren’t good ones, but my mother and I 
hesitate to the point at which any decision 
we make will be a bad one. 
Outside of driving, my father and sis-
ter are conﬁ  dent and unwavering, but my 
mother and I are cautious and ﬂ  uctuating. 
This isn’t just exclusive to my family, 
though. I’ve often noticed, after years of being in cars driven by my friends, their driving habits often reﬂ  ect their personalities. Conﬁ  dent, self-assured people will make quick 
decisions; quieter, more anxious 
people will be cautious. 
Sometimes those quick deci-
sions are the wrong decisions. 
Sometimes cautious decisions 
are the right ones. 
To quote the only Rascal Flatts 
song I know, “Life is a highway.” You’re driving for all of it, and 
you have to make decisions as turns come around and trafﬁ  c increases. 
Obviously, the decisions you make will 
be inﬂ  uenced by your dominant personal-
ity traits: Do you turn right now or hesitate 
a bit? Do you take the long, scenic route to avoid trafﬁ  c or would you rather grit your teeth and hope the trafﬁ  c clears up? 
And sometimes, very often in fact, you 
make the wrong decision. 
In times like that, you just have to stick with it and use all your skills and resources to ﬁ  nd a way out of it — whether it be your patience, your ability to quickly change 
lanes or the car full of people that’s guid-
ing you. 
Sometimes, it’s the other people who 
have made the bad decisions who are af-
fecting you, and you have to navigate 
around them. It’s easy to get angry at them, but remember, you might have been in that situation before.  
And sometimes, you just drop off your 
mom at the bus stop and decide to get gas but miss the turn and end up aimlessly wandering Gainesville for more than half an hour, doing a ﬁ  ve-point turn on some 
residential street and pissing off some 
people at a gas station. At least in the end, you end up learning how to navigate Gainesville a little better.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and 
computer science senior. Her column ap-pears on Thursdays. Life is a (metaphorical) highway: an analysis of driving habits and life Column
Oliver Stone’s movie “Snowden” came to theaters Friday. The true-story drama follows the lead-up 
and fallout surrounding the infa-
mous NSA contractor’s decision to 
release thousands of top-secret documents and ﬂ  ee the country to avoid prosecution 
by the U.S. government.
The story is usually presented very sim-
ply: Edward Snowden is either a hero or a 
traitor, depending which stories you skim past on your news feed. Both views are 
grossly oversimpliﬁ  ed, but the mere fact 
that we already have a ﬁ  lm documenting such recent events raises an unavoidable observation: Issues of cybersecurity are in-
creasingly present in the public conscious-
ness.
Let me appeal to an ideal many of us 
grew up with: Whether you were raised in America or traveled the globe to get here, 
you’ve heard politicians, citizens, teach-ers and activists speak about the 
promise of freedom. We have all been told this is the land where 
we have a choice, a freedom to 
shape our identity, to express ourselves, to choose our course in life. Did you choose this 
course?
Even if you don’t want to keep 
anything private, shouldn’t you 
have a choice?  You didn’t sign your name on the Patriot Act, you didn’t authorize the 
police to use StingRay devices to intercept 
your calls and texts and you never gave them probable cause. Shouldn’t police ofﬁ  -cers at least need a warrant to look through 
your private communications? Right now, 
they don’t, and the powers that be would rather you don’t know enough to argue about it. Stick to the hot-button issues — the ones that ﬁ  t easily on picket signs and 
in headlines.This brings us back to the 
movie and to the media. What-
ever you think of Snowden’s 
actions, I hope you’ll reﬂ  ect on 
how much of what I’ve told you is new information. If you’ve learned even one thing from this 
column that you didn’t know 
before, you’ve experienced the importance of the media and the 
free ﬂ  ow of information. Many surveillance programs being conducted in the U.S. to-
day are still classiﬁ  ed, marked as top se-
cret. Maybe the programs you know about don’t bother you, but how many more are there that you’ve yet to discover?  
Whether the way in which Snowden 
procured his leaked documents was right or wrong, the result allowed us to have a conversation. We get to discuss whether surveillance is wrong because we were 
given the choice, which our own govern-ment, the very people we rely on to protect 
our freedoms, would not grant us.
Consider for a moment what that kind 
of treatment means. Fifteen years after the 9/11 attacks, we have the perspective to look back with clarity at the aftermath. The American people asked for protection from 
those who might harm us. In asking for 
this, we allowed ourselves to give up more than should have been asked of us. In ask-ing for the apprehension of potential crimi-nals, we allowed ourselves to be treated 
like potential criminals: no evidence, no 
warrant needed, we are all on watch.
How safe can we be when we are not 
allowed to know what measures are be-
ing taken on our behalf? Are we okay with 
trading privacy and freedom for conve-nience and security? Did anyone ever give you a choice?
David Billig is a second-year UF linguis-
tics master’s student.
Giving up freedom for the sake of security: analyzing Snowden's decisionGuest column
David Billig
Speaking Out
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Fall movie preview: what to watch
“Doctor Strange, ” “La La Land, ” more, pg. 10 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
UF debuts new play on ethnicity, identity
“The New Mrs. T esman” opens Friday, pg. 9By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
Gainesville college students will 
get to relive their middle-school years 
Friday: Cute is What We Aim For will be performing at High Dive. 
Cute Is What We Aim For is a 
pop-punk band based out of Buf-falo, New York. This show is part of the 10-year anniversary tour for the band’s ﬁ  rst album, “The Same Old Blood Rush with a New Touch.”
CIWWAF rose to superstardom 
with the release of this successful de-but in 2006 and would continue to rule the charts for the next few years, 
with hits like “The Curse of Curves” 
and “There’s a Class for This.” 
What a time that was: the straight-
ironed hair, the skin-tight jeans, the chugging power chords and the gen-eral overproduction of the pop-punk acts that somehow dominated the mainstream. Pop-punk made a come-back in the mid-2000s, all thanks to 
the Hot-Topic-shopping youth and 
bands like CIWWAF. Albeit, it was a mutated form of pop-punk, a far cry from the slacker anthems of early al-bums by bands like Green Day and blink-182. 
Ten years after the band’s ﬁ  rst 
taste of success, CIWWAF is now back on the road, playing shows 
throughout the country in September 
and October. 
“We took a few years off, got real 
jobs, hated it,” said Jeff Czum, the band’s guitarist. “I actually worked as a music editor at Alternative Weekly in Buffalo. It was weird, not playing music but writing about people who are playing music every week; it kind of got to me after a while.”
Vocalist Shaant Hacikyan told a 
similar story about bartending in a 
concert hall during CIWWAF’s long 
hiatus. 
“I worked as a bartender at this 
music venue my friend owned, and that’s really what sparked my pas-sion for music again,” Hacikyan said. “Working that job, a lot of artists I had toured with when I was in the band came through. They kept ask-
ing me, ‘What are you doing here?’ 
and I’d say, ‘Working,’ and they would tell me, ‘Dude, you need to do music again!’”
The band was dropped from At-
lantic Records when its second al-bum didn’t sell nearly as well as its ﬁ  rst. 
“We were signed to Fueled by Ra-
men, who put out our ﬁ  rst album,” Hacikyan said. “But then we got up-streamed to Atlantic Records. Then, you know, the cliche happened: Our second record came out, it sold about half as many copies as our ﬁ  rst and within a year Atlantic told us to hit the road.”  
Fans of CIWWAF’s ﬁ  rst record 
should rejoice, as the band’s setlist at High Dive will be the entire tracklist of“The Same Old Blood Rush with a New Touch” in order.
So, tease your straightened hair, 
put on your neon-green skinny jeans 
and go see CIWWAF if you’re feeling 
nostalgic or curious or if you’re actu-ally just a fan of the band. 
Tickets can be bought in advance 
at ticketﬂ  y.com for $15, $16 at Hear Again Music or $18 at the door. Doors open at 8 p.m. for the 8:30 p.m. show.Cute Is What We Aim For to do 10th-anniversary show 
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Cute Is What We Aim For will play at High Dive on Friday as part of its 10-year anniversary 
tour. Doors open at 8 p.m. for the 8:30 p.m. show, and tickets are $15 online or $18 at the door.
By Monica Humphries
Avenue Writer
Last November, a bike 
equipped with an enormous el-
ephant sculpture rode down the streets of Gainesville. Behind it, cyclists pulled a small stage with 
the local band Flat Land.
On Saturday, Flat Land and 
the Conservation Initiative for the 
Asian Elephant will meet again, this time adding local band End-less Pools to the lineup. 
The beneﬁ  t concert at First 
Magnitude Brewing Company, lo-cated at 1220 SE Veitch St., aims 
to raise awareness and funds for the conservation of elephants and 
rhinos, said Ron Chandler, the 
president and a cofounder of CI-
FAE. 
“We try to strike a balance be-
tween getting as much as we can in ﬁ  nancial donations while also encouraging a lot of participa-tion,” he said.
The event features the two 
bands, discounts on beer, an arts-
and-crafts table for kids and CI-
FAE merchandise. 
“It’s the perfect storm of great 
stuff for Gainesville at large,” said Jacob Adams, a guitarist for End-less Pools.
The event coincides with the annual Global March for Ele-phants and Rhinos, which will be 
held Sunday at 10:30 a.m. on the 
Plaza of the Americas.
Chandler said he hopes to see 
new faces at the concert and in-crease attendance at the march. 
About 250 people are expected 
to attend the concert, he said.
“I’m always shocked at how 
many people we can actually get 
to turn out,” said Julia Jeanty, the 
general manager of CIFAE and a 20-year-old UF sustainability stud-ies and environmental geosciences junior.
Chandler said the event ap-
peals to everyone.“Elephants aren’t politicized,” 
he said. “It’s a movement every-
one can get behind.” 
And Gainesville is getting be-
hind the movement, said Sarah 
Stettner, a CIFAE member and UF student.
“Gainesville is known for local 
activism, which is pretty cool, and we’re just trying to increase that,” the 22-year-old sustainability stud-
ies senior said.
The money raised is going to-
ward making a large area of north-
east India a world heritage site. It’s home to one of the ﬁ  ve larg-est herds of Asian elephants in the world, and it’s one of the most pristine areas in all of Southeast Asia. 
“That’s our No. 1 focus for the 
next number of years,” Chandler said. 
Adams said Endless Pools is 
looking forward to performing with Flat Land and raising money for the cause.
“We’re talking about elephants, 
and everyone loves elephants,” 
Chandler said.
The Global March for Elephants 
and Rhinos Beneﬁ  t Concert will be 
held from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. Sat-urday at First Magnitude Brewing Company. The event is free and open to all ages. 
 First Magnitude to host beneﬁ  t concert for elephants
MUSICCourtesy to the Alligator
The band rose to fame in 2006 with hits like “The Curse of Curves” and “There’s a Class for This. ”
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
The UF School of Theatre and 
Dance’s production “The New 
Mrs. Tesman” will open Friday. 
The play is a twist on Henrik 
Ibsen’s classic “Hedda Gabler.” The adaptation of Ibsen’s play came about after Michael “Mikell” 
Pinkney, a UF professor of theatre 
and the coordinator of minority affairs, noticed a lack of “visible minority” actors — particularly a lack of African-American male ac-
tors, he said.
For UF, there is less American 
diversity, speciﬁ  cally in the num-
ber of African-American students, 
than that of foreign diversity or 
of students coming from different countries, Pinkney said. 
“Diversity has become differ-
ent,” Pinkney said.
The adaptation focuses on  
Hedda, the daughter of the ﬁ  rst minority member of the Parlia-ment of Canada. Pinkney said 
Hedda could be similar to Presi-
dent Barack Obama’s daughters, Sasha and Malia, in regard to leading a less-than-normal life. 
The adaptation, however, is 
about Hedda’s irrationality and is an investigation into what makes a human being act in that man-ner. The entire story unfolds 
within a 24-hour period. 
While researching for the ad-
aptation, Pinkney found that 
moving the setting of the play from late-19th-century Norway 
to 1950s Canada meant he could 
keep the cold climate, which is central to the play, and create an opportunity to ﬁ  ll the cast with 
“visible minority” students. 
As the coordinator for minority 
affairs, Pinkney said he, both ac-
cidentally and purposefully, cre-ated this opportunity for minority actors at UF to take part in the production. 
“It really makes the play work 
on another level in regard to that,” he said.
Playing two of the central 
characters in the play are Chelsi 
Stancil and Ernest Briggs, both 
UF third-year graduate students acting in the play for their thesis roles. 
Stancil plays Hedda Gabler, a 
Canadian Parliament member’s daughter who’s fun, mischievous and bored out of her mind. Lov-ingly referred to as the “female 
Hamlet” by Stancil, Hedda’s 
character is larger than life.
Briggs plays Judge Brack, a 
character who is almost the male 
version of Hedda. Briggs said he shares some 
similarities with his character, but for the most part they are po-
lar opposites.
“He’s larger than life; I like to 
think of myself as being some-what normal,” he said.  
Playing an antagonist is some-
thing Briggs wasn’t used to. Up to this point, he has played “the nice guy” but is excited to play 
a role in which the character’s 
agenda wasn’t readily apparent.
“I like to think that if you do 
it subtly, that by the end you can say, ‘Wow, I didn’t see that com-
ing,’” he said. 
When Stancil found out she 
landed the role of Hedda, she 
said she was proud and thankful. 
Since her undergraduate work, Stancil said she usually has been 
cast as older characters and never 
as the leading lady. She thanked 
Pinkney speciﬁ  cally for adapting this play and giving her an op-portunity to portray the role she always wanted. 
“I can be all of these different 
characters,” she said. “I don’t have to be a stereotype.” 
For both Stancil and Briggs, 
these are their most important roles during their time at UF. 
Rehearsals for the show ﬁ  rst 
started with the artists on their feet. Because this production 
is done on an arena stage, or a 
theater-in-the-round, the actors had to feel comfortable moving in spirals.
“You have to be aware of the audience at all times,” Stancil said, “because if you stand in 
a particular spot, you might be 
blocking an audience member.” 
For this reason, the actors had 
to look for “safe places” where they could stand without block-
ing anything. 
For both Stancil and Briggs, 
this is the ﬁ  rst time they will be 
performing totally surrounded by 
the audience. 
Because Stancil is playing the 
title role, she will be onstage for 
nearly the entire production. Hav-ing the audience so close while 
performing helps her make sure 
she is focused the entire time, she said.
Pinkney said he hopes audi-
ence members leave with their own sets of questions after seeing the play.
Because this play is about 
what happens behind closed 
doors, Briggs said people should 
come ready to pay attention to what the characters do not say to each other on stage.
“So much of what this show 
is going to be about is subtly and about ﬁ  nding moments between characters,” he said.   
Stancil said people should 
come to the play ready to step into Hedda’s world.
“Come ready to listen and ex-
perience the different relation-
ships between these characters. 
Come ready to laugh; it’s okay to laugh,” she said. 
“The New Mrs. Tesman” 
opens 7:30 p.m. Friday at the 
Black Box Theatre in the Nadine 
M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion. Ticket prices range from $13 for students with valid IDs, 
$15 for faculty, staff and senior 
citizens and $18 for the general public.  UF debuts new play about ethnicity and identity
THEATRE
Courtesy to the Alligator
Chelsi Stancil, left, and Ernest Briggs play the two leads in UF’s production of “The New Mrs. 
T esman. ” The show opens at 7:30 p.m. on Friday at the Black Box Theatre and is $13 for students. 
10   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016
By Cindy Lu
Avenue Writer
The Atlantic will bring supernatu-
ral sensation “Stranger Things” to 
Gainesville on Friday night. Prepare to meet plenty of Barbs and Elevens as se-ries enthusiasts hit the downtown venue 
for an ’80s jam session and costume 
party. 
“Stranger Things” is a web series cur-
rently streaming on Netﬂ  ix. The eight-episode science-ﬁ  ction thriller chroni-cles the mysterious disappearance of a 12-year-old boy and his friends’ and fam-ily’s adventure to ﬁ  nd him. The show heavily references ’80s popular culture, 
and Friday’s event will reﬂ  ect that.
“We had been tossing the idea around 
for a bit,” said Thomas Rankine, the pro-
motions and talent director at the Atlan-tic. “One of our local DJs, Stephen Tier-ney, approached us about the same idea, and it kind of snowballed from there.”
The Atlantic, a popular downtown 
event venue, is known for its themed 
dance parties. Previous events the place has hosted include Bey Day, a tribute to 
Beyonce; Zombieville, a night dedicated to the undead, and a ’90s dance party.
Friday’s event will feature DJ Tierney 
and DJ Cameron. Guests will have the chance to enter a costume contest for a $25 cash prize and enjoy drink specials throughout the night. Tierney, who also helped coordinate the event, hinted at other surprises in store for guests.
“I don’t want to give too much away,” 
he said. “You’ll just have to come see for 
yourself.”
The party will carry over to the Ar-
cade Bar, where guests can jam to ’70s 
and ’80s goth tunes from DJ Blonde Am-bition. There will be no cover for those 21 and older.
Although the night is dedicated to 
“Stranger Things,” Rankine and Tierney encourage everyone, no matter if they 
are fans, to come out for an “epic” party.
Doors will open Friday at 10 p.m., but 
Rankine said he expects a big turnout 
and advises anyone attending to arrive early. Tickets are $5, and those 18 and older are welcome.Netﬂ  ix’s ‘Stranger Things’  
to take over the Atlantic
LOCAL
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
This Saturday, one of Gainesville’s signature 
downtown events, the Original Gainesville Food 
Truck Rally, is returning to High Dive. 
For this event, patrons can try an array of 
food choices from local and visiting vendors sta-tioned in the venue’s parking area. 
Vendors aim to provide options for all pa-
trons, so vegetarian and vegan cuisine will be available, and both alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages will be served. In addition to available food and drink options, there will be live music performed by local artists Artemis, The Whiskey Dicks, Julien Kozak, Dr. John and the Medicine Show and the Homebodies beginning at 7 p.m. 
The Original Gainesville Food Truck Rally 
takes place every six weeks and is in its third year. In 2013, when High Dive began hosting these events, there were a select few food trucks in Gainesville, and only six trucks participated in the rally alongside local musicians. 
Despite its smaller beginnings, Glory Days 
Presents’ Pat Lavery described the ﬁ  rst rally as “a big success … Our lot was completely full within 10 minutes of beginning.” 
Since then, the rallies have exploded in popu-larity; High Dive had to add extra seating this year to accommodate the crowds.
 “(It’s like a) mini festival right there in the 
middle of downtown,” Lavery said.
In addition to food and entertainment, pa-
trons can also do some good by voting for their favorite vendor by making a donation in the vendor’s respective bucket. 
All of the proceeds collected from these dona-
tions go to Impact Gainesville, the Alpha Epsilon 
Delta prehealth honor society’s philanthropy 
division. This fall, Impact Gainesville is work-
ing with the nonproﬁ  t Florida Diabetes Camp, 
which helps to educate and empower children 
living with type 1 diabetes.
High Dive has been hosting the rallies in con-
nection with philanthropic endeavors for about a year and a half, Lavery said. Each event works 
with a different charity through the unique vot-
ing process, and Lavery estimated they have 
raised about $15,000 in the past year for charity. 
No cover charge will be required for entry 
into the rally or concert, but patrons are encour-aged to bring cash because not all vendors will 
be able to take credit. Those planning to attend 
Saturday’s event are requested to use available 
street parking and avoid using other businesses’ 
parking areas.  High Dive hosts food trucks
FOOD
By Andrew Osorio
Avenue Writer
Fall is here, and the climate is chang-
ing. No, I’m not talking about the out-
doors — we’ve got a few months left of 80- to 90-degree weather. I’m talking about the climate of ﬁ  lm: out with the 
summer blockbusters and in with the 
Oscar bait and ﬁ  lm-festival favorites. For those of you wondering what exactly there is to look forward to, here’s a pre-view of some buzz-generating projects that I think are worth highlighting.
“Doctor Strange” (Nov. 4)Director: Scott DerricksonStarring: Benedict Cumberbatch, Chi-
wetel Ejiofor, Rachel McAdams
“Doctor Strange” is the Marvel uni-
verse’s introduction to the world of magic, featuring the origin story of every-one’s favorite Sorcerer Supreme: Doctor Strange. After a tragic car accident leaves famed neurosurgeon Stephen Strange (Benedict Cumberbatch) without the use of his hands, he travels the world look-
ing for a cure to his life-altering afﬂ  iction. 
What Strange discovers is that there are realms of reality beyond our own, and what lurks within them may not all be benevolent.
Leave it to Marvel to drop what could 
be considered a summer blockbuster smack-dab in the middle of the fall. Jokes aside, “Doctor Strange” looks to be a 
promising blend of mind-bending visuals, 
horror and the action for which fans have come to know Marvel. Also, when two of your leads have names like Benedict Cumberbatch and Chiwetel Ejiofor, how can you fail?
“Hacksaw Ridge” (Nov. 4)Director: Mel GibsonStarring: Andrew Garﬁ  eld, Sam 
Worthington, Teresa Palmer
“Hacksaw Ridge” is Mel Gibson’s big directorial return. An amazing story of courage, the movie follows the true story of Desmond T. Doss (Andrew Garﬁ  eld), a 
U.S. Army medic and paciﬁ  st who saved 
75 of his fellow soldiers without ever picking up a weapon. 
First, let’s address the elephant in the 
room: Mel Gibson. Following the contro-versy of his racist, homophobic, xenopho-bic and sexist tirade in 2010, Gibson was blacklisted from Hollywood and ﬁ  lmmak-ing in general. While many would prefer 
not to see him work again, there is an ar-
gument to be made otherwise. Gibson is an incredibly talented ﬁ  lmmaker — many of those who have seen “Braveheart” and the severely underrated “Apocalypto” will attest to that. If you can look beyond the artist to appreciate the art, do so, be-cause “Hacksaw Ridge” is shaping up to be a potential Oscar contender.
“Arrival” (Nov. 11)Director: Denis VilleneuveStarring: Amy Adams, Jeremy Renner, 
Forest Whitaker
Alien spacecraft have arrived and 
menacingly loom over earth. No one’s quite sure where they’re from or what they want. “Arrival” centers on a linguist (Amy Adams) who is in charge of an-
swering these questions and deescalating 
what is becoming a threat to humanity. 
I’ll be up front: I’m a sucker for cere-
bral sci-ﬁ   a la “2001 A Space Odyssey” or “Blade Runner.” Not so coinciden-tally, “Arrival” director Denis Villeneuve is reuniting with cinematographer Roger Deakins from last year’s “Sicario” to take on the upcoming “Blade Runner” sequel. 
“Arrival” has already been met with criti-
cal acclaim. Audiences should be sure not to miss Villeneuve’s second major feature. 
“La La Land” (Dec. 2)Director: Damien ChazelleStarring: Ryan Gosling, Emma Stone, 
J.K. SimmonsThe tail of two up-and-comers, one 
a jazz musician (Ryan Gosling) and the other an actress (Emma Stone), who 
ﬁ  nd love in Los Angeles in their pursuits 
for success. An original musical, “La La Land” is already shaping up to be a crowd-pleaser. The ﬁ  lm won the People’s Choice Award at the Toronto Film Festi-val, and Emma Stone won Best Actress for her role at the Venice Film Festival. 
“La La Land” is writer/director 
Damien Chazelle’s third feature ﬁ  lm 
and a follow-up to 2014’s “Whiplash,” 
my personal favorite movie of that year. What’s more, I can’t remember the time I saw an original musical in theaters and actually enjoyed it. Mark my words, peo-ple will be raving about this movie when it drops in December. 
“Rogue One: A Star Wars Story” 
(Dec. 16)
Director: Gareth EdwardsStarring: Felicity Jones, Diego Luna, 
Ben Mendelsohn
War is on the horizon. The empire has 
nearly assembled the Death Star, a super weapon with terrifying capabilities. Tak-ing place between “Star Wars Episode III” and “Star Wars Episode IV,” “Rogue One: A Star Wars Story” is the ﬁ  rst “Star Wars” 
spinoff ﬁ  lm. “Rogue One” tells the tale 
of the ragtag rebels who steal the plans of the Death Star. These schematics are the key to the Death Star’s destruction in “Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope,” further tying the franchise together. 
As the ﬁ  rst “Star Wars” spinoff un-
der the Disney umbrella, this ﬁ  lm has a lot riding on it. Gareth Edwards, who 
directed the 2014 “Godzilla,” is tasked 
with transporting audiences back into the time period of the origin trilogy. Will it be a massive success? Will this be the ﬁ  rst misstep in the revitalized “Star Wars” universe? I don’t have the answers, but regardless, may the force be with this movie always.
Fall movie preview: what to watch
FILM
By Brian Schwartz
Avenue Writer
This Saturday, just a month before Fest returns to 
Gainesville and punk rock rears its madcap head once again, Curia on the Drag is hosting AM/PM, a celebration of Fest’s 15th anniversary with the perfect ingredients: lo-cal music, local coffee and local beer.
One of the local coffee joints bringing the joe is the 
Sweetwater Organic Coffee Company. Sweetwater pro-duction manager Mike Weaver is the main organizer of the AM/PM event, and he said he’s excited to bring this sort of event to Gainesville. 
Weaver approached all the local spots in Gainesville for 
the event and recruited — along with Sweetwater — Flag-ship Coffee Roasters and Opus Coffee, as well as Swamp Head Brewery, First Magnitude Brewing Company, Rain-
storm Brewing Company and Alligator Brewing Co. 
Weaver said he hopes for an even wider range of roast-
ers and breweries for a future AM/PM event, reaching out 
to other Florida establishments in Tampa and St. Augus-tine and possibly hosting at a larger venue like the Ala-chua County Fairgrounds.
Two Gainesville bands playing this event, Edmonton 
and Heat Rash, will be performing at Fest later this year. 
UF student Claudia Acosta said she is anticipating this 
event. 
She fuels up at all the local coffee shops, whether it’s a 
mocha at Coffee Culture or a latte at Volta or Curia. Acos-ta is no stranger to Curia’s non-coffee happenings, too, like its Fine Print music shows and Sunday yoga classes, the 20-year-old English junior said. 
She enjoys the coziness, well-decorated interior and 
“the light silence combined with the good music they play,” as it’s “conducive for studying.” Acosta said she 
would be looking forward to AM/PM if for the Fest hype 
alone, as she plans on seeing Pup, a band she missed at last year’s Fest, and local bands like Dikembe, Soda and UV-TV.
Admission is free and open to the public. There will 
be food for purchase from Curia and Humble Wood Fire. AM/PM will be open from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.  AM/PM event 
celebrates Fest
LOCALTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-30-16-29-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
10-12-16-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress SaleNew - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified6 Furnishings 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no respon -
sibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investi
-
gate the sincerity of the advertiser be -
fore giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 It’s often a stretch
5 Grim, as a
landscape
10 Debit card choice
14 Superstar15 Command16 Troublesome
tykes
17 Bad-blood
situation
18 One out for 
blood
20 Some browns
21 Number in an
outline, perhaps
22 Put in stitches
23 Variety show
array
26 Disdainful look
27 Holes in
sneakers
29 Cruising
31 Slender-
stemmed palm
32 Where to see a
wake
33 Botch37 Lease alternative
38 Babies, or what
some babies
wear
41 Historic
beginning?
42 Kentucky Fried
side
44 Brewery fixture
45 In-groups47 Irish New Age
singer
49 Runs aground50 Striped quartz53 Pork-filled pastry,
e.g.
55 Ruined in the
kitchen
57 Brooke 
Baldwin’snetwork
58 Auto parts giant
61 Pearl Harbor
battleship
63 Third-generation
Genesis name
64 Remote button
with a square
65 Capital on the
Willamette
66 Pedometer
measure
67 Many millennia
68 Sky scraper?69 Stage layoutsDOWN
1 Garage
contraption
2 What a light bulb
may mean
3 Europe’s highest
active volcano
4 Veteran seafarer
5 Cold War Baltic
patrollers
6 Coaches
7 Acknowledge
8 Account exec9 Angel who
replaced Jill, in’70s TV
10 “The Deer
Hunter” setting
11 Saturate (with)12 Let off the hook13 Late bloomer?19 Bit of subterfuge24 Entrechat, e.g.25 Call at home27 Lover of Psyche
28 Ketch kin
30 Green sign
information,traditionally
32 Suitable34 Raise stakes in a
game ... and ahint to a hiddenfeature of fiveDown puzzleanswers35 Like many apps
36 Cop to the crime,
with “up”
39 Address with an
apostrophe
40 Smack
43 Wings eaters’
needs
46 Aloof 
demeanor
48 “In thy 
dreams!”
49 Hung sign50 Treat badly
51 Zest
52 Illegal firing54 USDA 
inspector’sconcern
56 Ph.D. hurdle59 Well-versed
artist?
60 Deadly 
slitherers
62 Fast-forward
through
By Roger Wienberg©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/22/1609/22/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, September 22, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 24 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     9-23-16-10-14
Oak Hall School is looking for coaches in the sports of soccer (girls) and tennis (girls). Application and more information can be found at www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment    9-22-16-7-14
Part-time customer service sales associate.Fill out an application in store.The UPS Store #2715, 5745 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL M-F 9am-7pm • Saturdays 9am-5pm     9-28-16-5-14IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 9/26-9/29 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach-
ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     9-26-5-20
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area announces a public meeting 
to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME:  October 3, 2016 at 3:00 p.m.PLACE:  Jack Durrance Auditorium, County  
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352-955-2200, visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation-MTPO) or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without re-
gard to race, color, sexual orientation, or 
gender identity. Persons who require spe-
cial accommodations under the Americans 
with Disabilities Act or persons who require 
translation services (free of charge) should 
contact Mike Escalante at 352-955-2200, ex-
tension 114, at least seven (7) days before 
the public meeting.    9-22-1-20
Free college football prediction competition 
with $500 prize. 1 week left to register. For details check out http://www.thesportpick.com/college-foot -
ball-contest/      9-28-16-5-20
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida coach Jim McElwain 
updated Antonio Callaway's injury status on Wednesday. Read the story on pg. 16Florida men's basketball to play in coveted tournament
The Florida men's basketball team will spend the 2017 Thanksgiving break 
competing in the PK80, a basketball tournament in honor of Nike co-founder Phil Knight's 80th birthday. Other competing teams include T exas, North Carolina, Georgetown and Duke. THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Alligator Staff
It’s been 11 years since Tennessee beat Flor-
ida, but the Volunteers are feeling confident 
heading into this season’s matchup. The Vols 
are playing at home, they’re highly ranked and they’re seven-point favorites. 
But the Gators are also confident, and none 
more so than UF cornerback Quincy Wilson. 
He compared UT and UF to ducks and trucks, 
respectively, posing the inscrutable question, “Have you ever seen a duck pull a truck?”
So with both team’s high on confidence 
heading into Saturday’s game, who’s going to win? Our alligatorSports football writers Ethan Bauer, Ian Cohen, Jordan McPherson and Pat-rick Pinak debate.
BAUER: Earlier this year, I predicted Ten-
nessee would soundly beat Florida this sea-son. But now that game week has arrived, I’m torn.
On one side, the Volunteers have drastical-
ly underwhelmed so far this season. They’ve beaten low-tier teams like Appalachian State and Ohio by single digits. But they also clob-bered Virginia Tech by 21 and their quar-
terback is still Josh Dobbs, who torched the 
Gators in 2015.
Meanwhile, Florida has been significantly 
more impressive than I thought it’d be. Its de-
fense is truly elite, and I can’t see Tennessee scoring more than 20 points. 
But UF's offense has been unimpressive 
aside from the Kentucky game, when two of the main architects of success were quarter-back Luke Del Rio and receiver Antonio Cal-laway. Florida will be without Del Rio while McElwain listed Callaway as questionable to probable for Saturday.
With that in mind, this game comes down 
to two things: Florida’s defense staying elite and its offense playing passably.
I think UF's defense takes a step back. Ten-
nessee is considerably more talented than any other team Florida’s played, and that might be pretty shocking.
And I think the Gators' offense will be 
about the same as it has been despite facing a better defense. Florida’s running back rotation 
is talented enough to make that happen, even 
with a backup quarterback.
So with those two factors basically cancel-
ling out, I say Tennessee takes it, 17-13, in 
a close game that really could go either way 
partly because of home field advantage, and 
partly because we need a contrarian among 
us. 
COHEN: With Del Rio out, a passing of-fense may be hard to come by on Saturday.
Luckily for the Gators, they won’t need 
one.
Week 4 is a prime opportunity for several 
areas of Florida’s team to step up and pull their fair share of weight now that there are 
question marks surrounding UF's quarterback 
position.
The first group is the running backs. Flor-
ida’s four-deep backfield will receive plenty 
of carries on Saturday, and for a Tennessee defense that allowed 184 rushing yards to Ap-
palachian State in Week 1 and 186 yards to 
Virginia Tech in Week 2, that doesn’t bode 
well for the Volunteers.
Expect Mark Thompson, Jordan Cronkrite, 
Jordan Scarlett and Lamical Perine to get a 
bunch of first-down carries on Saturday. 
The second group is the defensive line and 
the cornerbacks, but really, it should be the whole defense. Yes, Florida is averaging 33.7 Florida vs. Tennessee: Can UF preserve the streak?
Grace King / Alligator Staff
From left: Jarrad Davis, Steven Stipe and the rest of Florida's football team descend into The Swamp prior to UF's 32-0 win over 
North T exas on Saturday. 
THE GATORS' 1.57 GOALS 
ALLOWED PER GAME THIS 
SEASON RANKS SECOND TO 
LAST IN THE SEC.
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
At the official halfway point of the 
regular season, the Florida soccer team knows it has some holes to fill if it wants to compete for a national championship in two months.
Offensively, the No. 12 Gators (6-
2, 1-1 Southeastern Conference) pos
-
sess one of the nation’s most potent scoring attacks, averaging slightly over three goals per game to rank first in the SEC and fifth in the NCAA.
However, UF hasn’t had that same 
success on the opposite side of the ball.Florida’s defense has allowed 1.57 
goals per game this fall, the second-worst rate in its conference. 
Sophomore goalkeeper Kaylan 
Marckese hasn’t put up the same dependable numbers she did in her first season protecting the net for the Gators either.
Marckese has made saves at al
-
most a 10 percent lower rate than she did in 2015 and has allowed mul
-tiple goals in four of her past five ap -
pearances. 
Marckese only allowed multiple 
goals three times in 17 appearances last season.
While the St. Petersburg native 
isn’t having the season UF hoped for, the team still knows it takes all 11 players to protect its goal.With offense excelling, UF soccer hoping to bolster defense
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION
SEE ROUNDTABLE,  PAGE 15
Marckese
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
“Defensively, we can defi -
nitely get more sharp as a whole 
team collectively over all parts of the field,” senior midfielder Meggie Dougherty Howard said. 
“We’ve been putting a lot of 
emphasis on that, and just tak
-
ing more pride in our defensive responsibilities."
Florida doesn’t have to wait 
long to work out its defensive kinks in a game setting, as it is set to host the unranked Auburn Tigers (5-4, 1-1 SEC) at 6 p.m. for its first home match against a conference opponent this sea
-
son.
Auburn hasn’t posed a strong 
offensive threat to teams thus far in 2016, only averaging slightly over one goal per game. 
However, the Gators gave up three scores in a loss to the Ti
-
gers last year, and they’re not taking AU’s poor offensive num
-
bers this season for granted.
“They’re very physical and 
they’re very fast, so we’re just going to have to keep each other very compact,” sophomore mid
-
fielder Mayra Pelayo said.
Coach Becky Burleigh has 
confidence that her team’s de -
fense will turn itself around, with tonight’s match represent
-
ing the perfect opportunity to get started.
“We’re a really hard-working 
team,” Burleigh said. 
“I think this team has shown 
a lot of resilience. I think this team has a little bit more grit to it, in terms of being able to deal with adverse situations.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg 14UF faces Auburn tonight 
in its first SEC home game
points per game, but its defense has only al-
lowed a ridiculous 4.7 points per game. That’s first in the country.
And after defensive backs Quincy Wilson, 
Jalen Tabor and Marcus Maye approached the media after practice on Tuesday and collec-tively guaranteed a Florida win on Saturday, I know better than to pick against them in a rivalry game. Florida wins, 17-10.
McPHERSON: As the Gators prepare to as-
cend on the Tennessee hills — the ones where 
there ain’t no smoggy smoke and there ain’t 
no telephone bills — they will endure one of the most raucous crowds they can face in Ney-land Stadium. With a checkered sea of orange and white filling the stadium to its brink, it will be loud.
More than 100,000 fans will be booing, shouting obscenities and screaming the glo-ried chorus of Rocky Top at the top of their lungs. 
How Florida responds to the noise will de-
termine the outcome.
At the end of the day, even with a backup 
quarterback and an underdog status for Satur-day’s game, Florida should narrowly come out on top yet again. It will focus on a heavy dose of the run game, with any of the four players rotating around in the backfield having the po-tential to break free.
The front seven will learn from its mistakes 
last year and wrap up Jalen Hurd and Josh 
Dobbs when they go in for the tackle.
Tennessee will make a valiant effort — the 
ducks will try with all their might — but the 
Florida truck will stand still on Rocky Top.
For yet another year, the Gators will make 
Rocky Top, Tennessee, home sweet home. Fi-nal score: 14-13 Florida.
PINAK: Florida will extend its winning 
streak over Tennessee to 12 games for two reasons, both mentioned by UT coach Butch Jones via teleconference Wednesday.
For one, UF’s defense is unlike any other. The Gators lead the country in limiting op-
ponents in yards per game (129.7) and points per game (4.7). Jones called it explosive and “one of the best” defenses he’s seen since he’s been at UT. 
And the only real threat to that defense is 
Volunteers quarterback Josh Dobbs, who ran wild in The Swamp last year to the tune of 136 yards. But it doesn’t sound like McElwain will let that happen again.
“We’re going to have to maintain our rush 
lanes when they do throw it and get him hope-fully a little uncomfortable and not be able to get his feet set exactly like he wants to,” McEl-wain said, “and not let him take over the game with his feet like he did against us last year.”
The other reason Florida will leave Knox-
ville victorious is because backup quarterback Austin Appleby doesn’t have to throw for 300 yards to win this game. As long as Appleby doesn’t turn the ball over and is consistent, UF's four-headed running game should be enough. 
And with UT’s top cornerback, Cam Sut-
ton, out with an ankle injury, that should make Appleby’s job slightly easier. 
“I know exactly what they’re telling (Ap-
pleby),” Jones said. “He doesn’t have to win the game, just manage the game for them.”
For that reason, I’ll take two UF running 
backs rushing for more than 100 yards and the Gators edging out a close, defensive-minded 
game by a final of 17-10 in Neyland Stadium.ROUNDTABLE,  from pg 14Florida leads the nation in yards allowed and points allowed
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain stands on the sideline during Florida's 32-0 win over North T exas on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Saturday's 
game against T ennessee will be UF's first road game of 2016, and more than 100,000 fans are expected at Neyland Stadium.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Mayra Pelayo (27) runs to celebrate with her teammates during Florida's 3-2 win over UCF on Sept. 18 at James G. Pressly Stadium.
16   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2016
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
Antonio Callaway had last weekend off 
against North Texas as he tended to his in-
jured quad.
But come Saturday, when No. 19 Florida 
hits the road to face No. 14 Tennessee, the 
speedy sophomore receiver is expected to be 
back in the lineup.
UF coach Jim McElwain said Wednesday 
that Callaway’s status for the game is “ques-tionable to probable” but remained optimis-tic about the receiver’s availability. 
Callaway leads the Gators with 201 re-
ceiving yards on 13 catches and also has a pair of touchdowns despite only playing in 
two of UF’s ﬁ  rst three games.
“We’ll kind of see how that goes,” McEl-
wain said. “But he’s got to be running 100 
percent for us to put him out there. I know how much it means to him.”
In other injury news, McElwain said line-
backer Daniel McMillian (high ankle sprain) is doubtful.
Diligent Del Rio: Even though he is un-
likely to play against Tennessee, quarterback Luke Del Rio hasn’t been standing idly on the sidelines during practice.
McElwain said that in addition to his 
rehab, the redshirt sophomore, whose left knee was injured on a low hit during Sat-urday’s 32-0 win against North Texas, has been active in the meetings and in learning Florida’s game plan. Del Rio will make the 
trip with the Gators to Knoxville.
“He’s preparing himself just like he’s the 
starter,” McElwain said, “and that really is 
what you expect from that position.”
Purdue graduate transfer Austin Appleby 
will start in Del Rio’s place this weekend, and McElwain has not ruled out giving true freshmen Kyle Trask and Feleipe Franks playing time. 
“This is one of those games, it’s a great 
opportunity for Austin to jump in there,” McElwain said, “and we’ll get a chance to get Kyle and Feleipe some reps.”
Secondary success: First-year UF de-
fensive backs coach Torrian Gray has been around talented secondaries in his coaching career, with 10 of his former players at Vir-ginia Tech being selected in the NFL Draft.But the 42-year-old coach said the group 
of players he has this year is one of the most conﬁ  dent he’s worked with over his 17 years.
Florida’s secondary has excelled through 
its ﬁ  rst three games. The Gators are hold-ing opposing quarterbacks to a national-low 34-percent completion rate and are one of two Football Bowl Subdivision teams to not allow a passing touchdown this year.“It’s fun because those guys, they’re big 
personalities,” Gray said, “but they really have a great chemistry with each other. It 
helps them to be able to mesh all that and 
come out and play together. Those guys gen-uinely have great chemistry.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.org 
 Callaway recovering, likely to play against TennesseeNOTEBOOK
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Antonio Callaway (81) runs with the ball during Florida’s 45-7 win over Kentucky on Sept. 10 at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. The 
sophomore receiver leads the Gators with 201 receiving yards on 13 catches.
McElwain listed him as probable