We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 160 THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016
The Alligator Awards
What was the most iconic UF sports moment of 
2016? See our roundtable discussion, pg. 14
Museum hosts free movies, discussions
The events are part of UF’s Creative B program, pg. 5
UF students address Supreme Court decision
See their letters to the editor, pg. 6Connect with us
Visit alligator.org or @thealligator on Twitter 
LOCAL
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff writer
Roughly a year after the U.S. legalized 
same-sex marriage for all 50 states, the De-
partment of Defense announced plans for the military to allow transgender service men, women and enlisting recruits to openly serve.  
According to the Associated Press, Secre-
tary of Defense Ash Carter announced June 30 that over the next three months, policy will go into effect to be more inclusive and provide medical services to transgender service mem-bers and new recruits. 
UF graduate student and Marine Corps vet-
eran Randall Martin said transgender recruits 
should be allowed to openly serve only after 
completing their boot camp training.
During training, recruits do everything to-
gether, including showering, Martin said. Af-ter training is complete, transitioning men and 
women should be able to openly serve with proper medical paperwork, he said.
With the new policy, service members still 
need 18 months of doctor-conﬁ  rmed therapy 
to enlist as their chosen genders, and they will 
still be required to wear the uniforms for their 
birth-genders.
Jonathan “Seth” Smith served in the army 
for 11 years, running a nonproﬁ  t, called Si-
lently Serving, while in the military. The orga-
nization provided LGBTQ+ service members 
with support and therapy during the years of “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell.” 
As society becomes more educated and 
inclusive, policies will continue to slowly 
change, even through initial backlash, Smith 
said.
“Being in the foxhole, you don’t care who 
is next to you,” he said. “As long as you know they’re going to ﬁ  ght for you.” 
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org Gainesville veterans react to recent transgender policy
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
At this past Tuesday’s UF Student Senate 
meeting, four out of ﬁ  ve of the Student Sen-ate allocations committee bills passed on the ﬂ  oor unanimously.
The bill that did not pass was “Funding 
for LOGRAS,” which would have allocated $1,548.50 to the graduate Latino apprecia-tion organization. The bill was struck down 
unanimously.
Among the bills that were passed, “Fund-
ing for Gators Humans vs. Zombies,” will 
give $2,331.50 to the organization.
The “Funding for Gator Chess Club” bill 
will give $628 to the club, and the “Funding for Alpha Omega” bill will give $1,243.27 to the religious organization. 
The last bill, “Funding for Young Life,” 
will give $487.80 to the club. 
The allocations committee now has 
$50,000 remaining in its budget to distribute to student organizations.
During the Student Body president’s re-
port, Susan Webster discussed the Executive branch’s efforts to get more ponchos for a poncho redistribution program, set up a ham-mock rental program on campus and attempt 
to establish a free Uber ride program for UF 
students in Gainesville. 
No one signed up for public debate this 
meeting.
There was no further discussion about the 
turnover of the Supreme Court amendments in the Student Senate chamber.  Senate decides on allocations for student organizationsLOCAL
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
From the moment he met Rusty, UF student Ty Redler said he 
knew the American bulldog mix would make a perfect service dog and companion. 
“When I walked up to his cage, I instantly turned to the woman 
and said, ‘This is the one,’” the 22-year-old biology senior said. “It was love at ﬁ  rst sight.”
On Monday, Redler and Rusty walked at the south entrance of a 
trailhead at San Felasco Hammock Preserve State Park.
Rusty began to pull Redler, eventually breaking his leash and 
running away, Redler said. The dog was later seen Wednesday by visitors to the park.
Redler said his dog once again ran before he could be caught, 
which is unusual behavior for Rusty. 
“I’m pretty sure he’s at the point where he’s extremely terriﬁ  ed,” 
Redler said. “I’ve been telling people ‘If you see him, call me and keep your location down, and I will come as soon as I can get there.’”
Redler said he was diagnosed with Crohn’s disease in 2008, and 
that he became progressively sicker. Last year, he underwent a major surgery and had to enroll in physical therapy. 
It was time for a service dog, he said. “I thought, ‘What’s better than getting a dog that will be able to 
help me get better physically and mentally?’” Redler said.  UF student hopes to 
ﬁ  nd his service dog
SEE DOG,  PAGE 3Zachariah Chou / Alligator
CAR COLLISION
Gainesville Police and Gainesville Fire Rescue move a car at the intersection of Gale Lemerand Drive and 
Archer Road on Tuesday afternoon. One person was injured in the two-car collision, said Lt. West of GPD.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  98° LOW  73°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING
Friday Program at Krishna 
House
Come and attend the Friday 
Program at Krishna House to 
learn about “Inner Beauty vs. Outer Beauty.” The program starts at 7 p.m. with Mantra 
Meditation followed by an 
Ice Breaker Session and Talk on the Topic. Dinner will be served at 8:15 p.m. Make every week complete with eternal 
knowledge by attending Friday programs at Krishna House. 
No registration required! Come 
directly at 7 p.m. Please join 
us at Krishna House, located at 214 NW 14th St.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgettenberg@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Alligator Staff, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto, 
  Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Britney Jenkins, Juan Londono, 
  Alexandra LeCras, Christian Mayorga,
  Caroline Rhoades, Jeffrey Romer, 
  Mathews Silva, Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 160
DeEtta Duckett, the trainer 
who worked with Rusty, said she believes the Independence Day 
fireworks scared Rusty away. 
“I’m confused and very 
worried,” Duckett said. “For 
him to run away from people, something is wrong.”
She said Redler and Rusty are 
best friends, and that Rusty is like 
his owner’s “third hand.”
“They compliment each other,” 
she said. “Ty needs Rusty, and 
Rusty knows that.”
Along with training to carry 
small objects, Redler said Rusty 
opens doors and drawers and even 
stands up to give Redler something 
to hold when his legs feel weak.
“A lot of times it’s very difficult 
for me to eat, so I get very weak 
and dizzy and lightheaded,” 
Redler said. “So there will be times 
where I start to fall, so he’ll brace 
and he’ll be like my crutch.”
Redler said he and Rusty’s 
trainer continued the search 
Wednesday night, and that anyone 
with information should call 954-
240-0868. 
“I would definitely have to say 
that, no matter what is going on 
in my life, he’ll always put a smile 
on my face,” he said. “He always 
has a smile on. There’s a special 
connection with Rusty and me.”
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Ty Redler (center), with his dog Rusty, shaking hands with Don, a 
salesman at an Ocala Volkswagen dealership. “When I bought my car I brought rusty with me so that’s rusty sealing the deal (sic), ” Redler wrote in a text message.
FOOD
By Isabella Dohse
Alligator Contributing Writer 
For the first time in three years, 
Chipotle has not made the top four 
in The Harris Poll’s list of best res-
taurant brands in the Fast Casual 
Mexican Restaurant category.
In previous years, Chipotle has 
held the leading position. Now, 
however, the list shows Moe’s, 
Taco Bell and Qdoba as the most popular, in that order. 
Chipotle’s fall may be linked 
to several factors. Chipotle expe-
rienced two E. coli bacterial out-
breaks in late 2015, which led to the hospitalization of 22 consum-ers, according to the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention.
In January, same-store sales 
dropped 36 percent from the pre-
vious year, according to Bloom-berg. Stocks reflect these troubles: 
In November 2015, Chipotle stock 
priced just above $700, but by March this year, it had sunk into the $400 range.In addition, competitors offer 
weekly deals, such as Moe’s on 
Moe Mondays and Tijuana Flats 
on Taco Tuesdays.
“Moe’s is better; it offers qual-
ity food for a lower price,” said Will Shidler, an 18-year-old UF fi-
nance freshman. “Plus, they have 
free chips and a salsa bar.”
Last week, Chipotle began its 
“Chiptopia” rewards program. The 
three-month program gives cus-
tomers a chance to receive a free entree if they visit four times in one month, and they can receive more rewards if this is repeated for 
another two months.
Valeria Archila, an employee at 
the Chipotle location in Midtown, 
has recently been working to pro-
mote Chiptopia. 
“I’ve been working for Chipo-
tle for four years, and it’s incred-
ible how much both the position and staff has helped me to grow,” 
she said. “I’ve seen firsthand how 
committed the company is to get-ting through this tougher time.”Chipotle loses 
leading spot in 2016 restaurant rankings DOG,  from pg. 1He can be reached at 954-240-08684   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016
By Samantha Brittingham
Alligator Contributing Writer
A veterinarian in the UF College 
of Veterinary Medicine is one of the 
top five finalists in the 2016 Hero Vet -
erinarian Awards, sponsored by the 
American Humane Association. 
Dr. Natalie Isaza’s dedication to 
shelter animals led her to create the Veterinary Community Outreach Pro
-
gram with UF, she said.
The program allows students in 
UF’s vet school to gain hands-on experience with patients and perfect surgical skills before they graduate, 
she said. Her work began at the Ala
-
chua County Animal Services, but the 
program moved to UF’s vet school to 
service more animals once the pro -
gram took off.
Her work has since expanded to 
six other shelters and the St. Fran -
cis Pet Care Clinic, located at 501 SE 
Second St., which Isaza co-founded 
to provide veterinary care for pets of 
low-income residents. The clinic is open every Tuesday from 8:30 a.m. 
to noon. Students enrolled in the Veteri
-
nary Community Outreach have the 
opportunity to practice veterinary 
medicine at clinics and shelters in 
Gainesville and the surrounding ar -
eas during their third or fourth years of vet school, Isaza said.
“The biggest reason that students 
take our rotation is the hands-on sur
-
gical training,” Isaza said. 
The program does most of the 
spay and neuter surgeries in the area, which allows students to gain expe
-
rience that gives them an advantage when they go to practice medicine, 
she said.
“Spay surgeries are major abdom
-
inal surgeries,” Isaza said. “As (stu -
dents) get more accustomed to the 
surgeries, they gain confidence, so it 
becomes easier for them.”
Each student is completely in 
charge of these procedures, but a veterinarian is always in the room to 
watch and make sure the procedure is done correctly, she said. 
Melissa Glikes, who worked as a 
technician in the program, nominated Isaza for the award after seeing the effort she put into animal welfare, Isaza said.
Isaza said she hopes the nomina
-
tion brings awareness to the work that shelter veterinarians do.
“People having their animals 
spayed and neutered is really going to decrease the workload of shelter vet
-
erinarians everywhere,” Isaza said. “I think we need a lot more education 
in our community about spay/neuter 
and how important it is to do that so that we don’t have unwanted animals 
in our system that get euthanized.”
Isaza began mentoring Dr. Kelly 
Harrison in 2005 when Harrison start
-
ed volunteering with the program.
“I feel so lucky to not only have 
met her but to have worked under 
her mentorship for as many years as I have,” Harrison said.
Voting for the 2016 Hero Veteri
-
narian Award ends July 21 at noon PST. Voters must be 18 years or 
older and can vote once per day at 
herovetawards.org until the contest is over.UF vet recognized for shelter work
By Natalie Calvo 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Peaceful Paths is hosting its 
fourth annual back-to-school 
drive to collect school supplies for 
children in grades pre-K through 12 whose families have been vic-
tims of domestic violence. 
The drive began Monday and 
will run through July 22.  
Peaceful Paths is a certified 
domestic violence center that 
provides aid and support to fami-
lies who have survived domestic 
abuse, according to the organiza-tion’s website.
“Uniforms are expensive, and 
they are one of the last things on the mind of the people that we 
serve,” said John Thomas, the di-
rector of community giving and marketing for Peaceful Paths. 
“They have to go out and spend 
$30 or $40, if not more, per child. We decided that this was some-
thing that we could provide for 
our kids.”
Those interested in donating 
can drop off crayons, filler paper, backpacks, Wal-Mart gift cards and other school supplies at the 
Peaceful Paths outreach office, 
located at 2100 NW 53rd Ave., or at other sites, including Sunstate 
Federal Credit Union branches 
and the UF Mover Guys office on Newberry Road.
Brad Stumpff, the owner of 
UF Mover Guys, was a special education supervisor for Alachua 
County for 10 years.
“Kids would show up with no 
paper and no pencils,” Stumpff said. “The teachers submit the 
list of school supplies on the school website, and all the kids 
in the class would show up with 
them, except for the disadvan-taged kids.”GNV organization  
collects school suppliesTHURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR  5 
By Nicole Kocian
Alligator Contributing Writer 
As part of UF’s Creative B summer pro-
gram, the Florida Museum of Natural History 
will start a series of free movies and panel discussions this weekend.
The series will start Friday at 6 p.m. with 
a meet-and-greet featuring artist Nobuho Nagasawa, followed by a discussion and the movie “Mothra,” according to a press release. 
Elizabeth Brown, a marketing and public relations assistant for the museum, said ex-hibits will stay open until 7 p.m. on movie nights. 
Tiffany Ireland, an educator at the muse-
um, said the topics will focus on the balance between art and science.
“It’s a really great program to go to if you 
like movies and you like science and you like fiction,” she said.
Tim Lawrence, a special effects artist who 
worked on movies such as “Ghostbusters” and “Jurassic Park,” Ian Breheny, a museum 
designer and cult movie aficionado, and Ter-ry Harpold, a UF associate professor of Eng-
lish and film and media studies, will lead the panels, according to the release. 
Stacey Steinberg, a UF law professor, said 
her photography is currently featured in the museum’s Shared Hope — Art and Healing exhibit.
“Creative B gives students, faculty and 
staff, as well as community members, an opportunity to engage in the arts during the summer months,” she said.
Information on other Creative B activities 
is found at creativeb.aa.ufl.edu. Summer program offers free movies, discussions By Johana Wiznitzer
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
A program that started across the Pacific 
Ocean has made its way to Gainesville. 
Plastic Free July began as an environmen-
tal program in the suburbs of Perth, Australia, 
in 2011 and has spread to 69 countries since 
2014.
The Alachua County Office of Waste Alter-
natives joined forces with Curia on the Drag, located at 2029 NW Sixth St., to promote the 
challenge for the first time.
Residents who bring a refillable cup to the 
restaurant will save 25 cents on their drink, and We Are Neutral, a local nonprofit, will plant a tree on their behalf, said Anna Samp-son, the general manager of We Are Neutral.
“(As) individuals or (as a) business, we 
can all improve our habits,” said Kelley Taks-ier, the operations manager for Curia on the Drag.  Shelley Samec, a waste alternatives spe-
cialist for Alachua County, said the challenge encourages residents to give up plastic items that are generally used once.
She said it mostly targets plastic bags, 
straws, bottles and takeout containers.“It’s a lot easier than people think,” Samec 
said. “You don’t need a Styrofoam container in a restaurant; you can take a container with you.”
The county will host two Plastic Free 
workshops: one on July 20 from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the Millhopper Branch Library, located at 3145 NW 43rd St., and another on July 21 from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Headquar-ters Library, located at 401 E. University Ave. Challenge aims to reduce plastic usage, plant trees
Movies are unrated, 
events start at 7 p.m.
• July 8: “Mothra”
• July 15: “Little Shop of Horrors”
• July 22: “The Thing from Another 
World”
• July 29: “Matango”“It’s a lot easier than people think.”
Shelley Samec
waste alternatives specialistThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
President Susan Webster has brought 
back business as usual to Student Government. Like many of you, I was 
quite alarmed at hearing online voting 
was dismantled by Webster and her 
UF Supreme Court. Sadly, I wasn’t surprised.
Online voting means more students can 
more easily exercise their right to vote. That means more student voices are heard.
The timing and blatant lack of transparency reveal 
the shameless way in which they went about eliminating online voting. After about 30 student volunteers gathered 
approximately 3,200 signatures to get the amendment 
on the ballot, candidate Webster came out for online voting in the SG debate as the pressure mounted for its passage. The amendment went on to pass with more 
than 68 percent of the vote.
President Webster now sings a different tune than 
candidate Webster.
Candidate Webster didn’t want to risk fighting the 
popular support for online voting, so President Webster chose to use the cover of Summer break, 
when few students were in town, to silence the voice of the Student Body on the issue.
More troubling than Webster’s quick 
about-face once she was elected was her blatant manipulation of the makeup of the judicial branch. She led her Impact Party 
Senate caucus against the nominees of the 
previous Student Body president: the first 
Native American and the first openly gay veteran to be nominated to the UF Supreme Court. At the time it was said that they “weren’t diverse enough.” She appointed 
five of the seven total justices herself, manipulating the 
legislative branch to go along with her court packing plan and having them fail the two extremely qualified nominees — only to then approve her five by unanimous 
consent.
And after the Court’s clearly influenced an erroneous 
decision, she had her Senate president eliminate the 
online voting implementation committee in Senate, days before the official UF Supreme Court opinion was even 
released. But I know the Student Body will not turn a 
blind eye to this blatant disregard for their voices and their votes. 
It seems the ruling class in SG is back to its old tricks 
— ignoring the voice of the Student Body and running from the nearest sight of sunshine. 
Preston Jones is a UF political science junior.President Webster ignored the Student BodyLetter to the EditorSome of you have reached out to the Alligator asking our 
position on the recent Supreme Court ruling.
We’ve refrained from making a statement because we want 
to gather more information on the situation and how it affects 
the Student Body before taking an official stance. So, in the meantime, please keep up to date with our reporting of Senate meetings and the latest developments. Now, onto the latest fad…
Darts & Laurels
To indict or not to indict: ‘Tis the question. Well, it was before 
FBI Director James Comey stated Tuesday that Hillary Clinton 
should not face criminal charges based on her mishandling of classified documents through her use of a private email server. Though, he certainly did not shy away from characterizing Clinton’s behavior as “extremely careless” and dangerous.
So it was basically like bumping into your ex at a mutual 
friend’s party: “You’re a liar, and I hate you forever, but I don’t think charges are appropriate today because I can’t prove you actually intended to ruin my evening like this.” We give a laurel  
to Comey for not holding back his punches despite the final “no-charges” recommendation to the Department of Justice.
Intention is key here, and you can agree or disagree with 
the standard by which Comey and the FBI defined criminal intention during their investigation. But, regardless, the decision has been made.
As far as we know, however, Comey made one statement 
that doesn’t add up. In comparing Clinton’s case to previous investigations, Comey stated, “We cannot find a case that would support bringing criminal charges based on these facts” — facts that include, as he outlined, clearly intentional and willful mishandling of classified information. 
So — in English — the FBI, according to Comey in this 
Tuesday address, has never pressed criminal charges in cases where intent was not evident or inferable.
That’s not true. According to FBI records, which journalist 
David Sirota resurfaced and The Young Turks discussed, in July 2015, the FBI sentenced Bryan H. Nishimura, a former Navy reservist. Nishimura had access to classified documents while stationed in Afghanistan, which he downloaded and kept on his personal devices and later, unsuccessfully, tried to destroy.
Although the subsequent FBI investigation “did not reveal 
evidence that Nishimura intended to distribute classified information to unauthorized personnel,” he was given a criminal sentence.
Now, again, you can dispute the Nishimura case, but the 
fact of the matter is, we have a clear example from less than a year ago that looks exactly like Clinton’s case but yielded an entirely different outcome. So, when Comey said, “We cannot find a case that would support bringing criminal charges based on these facts,” he was either lying to the entire country or at least being disingenuous.
Of course, it’s completely reasonable that Comey just had a 
memory slip. You know, like when you draw a blank during your calculus final — it happens to the best of us. Or perhaps Comey was speaking in some secret FBI code in which, “We cannot find a case” actually means, “We absolutely know of a case from less than a year ago, and we will continue to act in full transparency, as we always do with cases this serious.” The world may never know.
So, we give a dart to Comey’s memory or verbal slip-
up. Maybe he’s suffering from the same condition that caused 
President Bill Clinton to say, “I did not have sexual relations with that woman.” Expect Comey to bring the sax solos back around town. 
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORHey Gators,
I am a rising eighth-year Gator, 
professional student and second-
term senator who commutes from 
Jacksonville every Tuesday to Student 
Senate meetings in an effort to make our university better.
In case you missed it, our Student Body 
president and Supreme Court recently held a very important meeting regarding overturning amendments, including online voting. This meeting was held during intersession, when the majority of students 
weren’t in town and was supposedly advertised on a 
lone bulletin board. The announcement came from our executive branch, representing our judicial branch, which is somewhat alarming in and of itself. This iconic 
timeline happens annually, when powerful leadership 
waits for new unsuspecting students on campus to gleefully enjoy the summer weather and not notice its hidden agenda.
On June 28, I was ready to drive my 90-minute 
commute to Student Senate. I was ready to provide evidence that the Supreme Court and our current Student Body president have knowledge on how to advertise such vital meetings by showing past emails, 
Alligator articles and announcements from them of 
other events and meetings.
I was ready to present Florida history and relevant 
cases — State v. City of Miami Beach and Grapeland Heights Civic Association v. City of Miami — showing 
that abstaining ballots do not count as participation in voting and the Supreme Court’s decision of 
analyzing the UF Constitution statement, “A three-fifths approval vote of those voting in 
the spring general election is necessary to 
ratify all constitutional amendments,” was wrong.
I was ready to show that the Student Senate 
president’s decision to dismantle the ad-hoc online 
voting committee was premature, and she contradicted 
herself when discussing what information from the meeting she had access to.
But then I realized: It’s someone else’s turn. Soon, 
I’ll be representing our university in different states on 
clinical rotations and unable to stand in those chambers 
and fight for our voices. We need new leadership. We need someone who’s ready to represent our Student Body with honesty and integrity for the next few weeks, months or even years. So Gators, I challenge you. Get involved. Speak at Student Senate. Voice your opinions. Show up to meetings. And please, stop letting them pull fast ones. 
Aimee Dolan is the current District E Senator and 
a rising fourth-year professional student at the UF 
Jacksonville campus.Gators, it’s time to make our voices heardLetter to the Editor
“It seems the ruling class in SG is back to its 
old tricks — ignoring the voice of the  
Student Body and running from the  
nearest sight of sunshine. ”“W e need someone who’s ready to 
represent our Student Body with 
honesty and integrity for the next few weeks, 
months or even years.”Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. Q&A with local band Southpaw
The Avenue talked to the band’s lead vocalist, pg. 10
THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
A crash course of the different types of texters
From the “Emoji Queen” to the “Read Receipts, ” pg. 9THE TWO TRIBUTE BANDS 
WILL PLAY AT THE 
VENUE THIS FRIDAY.
By Samuel Figuera
Avenue Writer 
Tribute bands Weeze and American Idiots are 
set to stage a live rock performance at the High 
Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave., this Friday 
night. The bands will be covering the music of 
legendary rock bands Weezer and Green Day.
American Idiots, a tribute band to Green Day, 
is fronted by lead singer Chris Friday, who said 
he remembers hearing “Basketcase” for the ﬁ  rst 
time after his brother played it in protest of hav-ing to do chores. Consequently, Friday had to do the chores himself. 
Friday’s idea to form a tribute band began in 
2005 after he saw Green Day perform live, he said.
“It changed my world,” said Friday, who then 
went on to gather bandmates. Alec Pitts (bass), 
Don Young (drummer), Anthony Young (lead gui-
tarist) and Friday are extremely dedicated to cap-turing the original spirit of Green Day, and this spirit shows in the rave reactions of their crowds.
Green Day actually played at the High Dive 
during the ’90s, and it is up to American Idiots to carry the torch Friday.
Weeze, fronted by lead singer Niles Austin, is 
a band that is ﬁ  rm in its mission to deliver an 
authentic, energetic Weezer experience. 
Weeze began in Gainesville where brothers 
Jacob McCravy (bass/vocals) and Jon McCravy 
(guitar/keys/vocals) joined forces with Kenneth Noble (drums) and Niles Austin. Weeze is not a 
stranger to playing live gigs.“We just plug in and go,” Jon McCravy said. Weeze recognizes the talent they have for 
putting on an outstanding live performance and 
works hard to replicate the feel of the live shows they’ve attended. The band plays hits such as “I 
Want You To” that always manage to work up 
the crowd.
“We played this one show a year ago; we had 
one of the fans come up to us and ask us if we were Weezer,” Jon McCravy said.
Pat Lavery, the exclusive promoter of High 
Dive, has his reasons for booking Weeze and American Idiots twice.
Lavery remembered a gig featuring Weeze and 
American Idiots back in February. “We had a huge crowd of college kids, most who were born in the late ’90s after both Weezer and Green Day’s debut albums came out,” he said. “Everyone was singing along to every word of each bands’ one 
hour plus set of Weezer and Green Day tunes... 
As someone who went to shows in Gainesville in the ’90s, it was like stepping into a time ma-chine.”
Those passionate fans and energetic perfor-
mances are why the bands have been doing trib-ute shows for so long.
“This is pretty much all I do for a living,” Jon 
McCravy said. “It’s a drive, you feel like you have 
to do it. It’s a lifestyle.” 
The show Friday promises to be a memorable 
one for local Weezer and Green Day fans.
“Despite whatever b.s. is going on in every-
body’s lives, we just want them to forget about 
it and give them something to believe in,” Friday said.
The doors open at 9 p.m., and the show starts 
at 10 p.m. Tickets are $8 in advance and $10 at 
the door. High Dive to host Weeze and American Idiots  
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Green Day tribute band American Idiots will perform at High 
Dive on Friday alongside Weezer tribute band Weeze. Doors open at 9 p.m. for the 10 p.m. show.
By RaSheba Jones
Avenue Writer
The Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art has welcomed the 
photography of an internationally famous woman with its 
new “Mirror, Mirror… Portraits of Frida Kahlo” exhibi-
tion.
The goal of the exhibition is to show an arc of Kahlo’s 
life, and the exhibit will run until Nov. 27.
“She was a 21st-century woman I think in many ways,” 
said Carol McCusker, the curator of photography at the 
Harn. 
The exhibition will feature the film “The Life and 
Times of Frida Kahlo,” which gives a history lesson on Kahlo’s life in Mexico amid her coming-of-age during the 
Mexican Revolution in the 1920s.
Frida Kahlo was an artist, communist and bisexual, who smoked marijuana, traveled the world and was a free 
spirit in the trust of the world, McCusker said. 
She describes putting together the exhibition as “a his-
tory lesson, especially with Donald Trump bashing Mex-ico.”
“We need to understand some of the wonderful things 
that Mexico produces, and one of them was Frida Kahlo,” McCusker said. 
Kahlo was photographed by her father, who was a 
professional photographer. He photographed her and her family to see Kahlo become the woman she was. 
“I just know what an icon she is in the art world,” Mc-
Cusker said. 
When Frida Kahlo was younger, she contracted polio 
in her right leg, which affected its growth.
At 18, she was in an accident where her pelvis and va-
gina were pierced by the metal gear shift of a trolley. She went through more than 35 operations over the course of her life. 
“For someone to rise to the level of beauty and 
strengths with that physical adversity was stunning,” Mc-Cusker said. “She did it with humor and grace.”
On July 17 at 3 p.m.,  the Harn will hold a Gallery Talk 
to discuss the new exhibit. 
“I’ll be talking about the nature of photography about 
the camera as the mirror,” McCusker said. “She was very photogenic, beautiful and charismatic.”  Harn features exhibit detailing the life of Frida Kahlo
LOCAL
“W e need to understand some of the wonderful things 
that Mexico produces, and one of them was Frida 
Kahlo.” 
Carol McCusker
curator of photography at the Harn 8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer 
Roy Wood$ is a 20-year-old rapper from 
Brampton, Ontario, currently signed to Drake’s 
October’s Very Own Sound record label. He first gained a lot of attention when he and Drake de-buted their song “Drama” in July 2015, and last 
Friday, nearly a year later, Wood$ finally re-
leased his debut album, “Waking at Dawn.” It’s already one of my favorite albums to come out in this stacked year for hip-hop and R&B, and I’m going to break down the ten-song album.
Even if you’ve never listened to Wood$, 
you’ll get an idea of his sound on the first song, “Sonic Boom.” He floats over the short intro of echoed instrumental and layered vocals, and at first listen, “Sonic Boom” is reminiscent of The Weeknd’s early work. 
On the second track, “You Love It,” Wood$ 
spits a couple dope rap verses over a simple but smooth beat. This song displays his versatility by rapping and singing, and it shows he’s more than the typical R&B artist. With his singing, he shows he doesn’t need a featured artist on this song or the album. 
Next up is “Gwan Big Up Urself,” and 
“Waking at Dawn” switches styles for the third 
time in the first three songs. Wood$ hits us 
with a dancehall song and mixes Toronto and Jamaican slang throughout the three-minute song. On “How I Feel,” he sings over a more “trap” R&B beat. You can hear why he’s signed to OVO Sound on this song. 
“Down Girl,” an upbeat hip-hop record, is 
easily my favorite song. Wood$ uses rap/hip-hop to describe his ideal girl; it’s a song you can party to, but you can also sit back and vibe with.
When you’re a 20-year-old who’s signed to 
one of the most successful artists in the world, people are going to want to be your friend be-cause of your status. Wood$ confronts his is-sues with the people around him on “Switch.” 
Following “Switch” is “Got Me,” which contin-
ues the slower vibe until the beat drop at the hook. He reaffirms his connection with the girl he’s talking to in a life where he’s always on the road and surrounded by women. 
On “Why,” you can once again hear the 
R&B sound that’s been made popular by art-
ists such as The Weeknd and PartyNextDoor. 
On “Menace,” he stays with the slower sound that begins the album’s homestretch into “She Knows About Me.” It’s the perfect end to the album.
Wood$ may not be on everybody’s radar 
yet, but he’s one song away from a Billboard Hot 100 hit, and he certainly has the quali-ties to stick around. “Waking at Dawn” is one 
of the strongest debut albums I’ve heard in a 
while, and I can only imagine what else he has in store. Watch out for Roy Wood$ and most certainly give this album a listen.
Reviewing Roy Wood$’ debut album, ‘Waking at Dawn’THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR  9
By Julia Nevins 
Avenue Writer
Texting: a seven-letter word that 
has taken over our lives in this past 
decade. What used to be a handful of 
cellphone owners has quickly turned 
into the majority of the population. 
And a big part of communication ex-
ists from furiously thumbing away 
at a glass screen. These are mod-
ern times, and if you don’t want to 
get left behind, then here is a crash course on the different texters of this 
technology-crazed generation. 
Note: Some categories coincide 
with others. That’s life.
The “Fast Response” texter:This breed of texter is usually fe-
male. She is a social media expert, and her phone typically lives in her 
hand.  Anything below 50 percent battery makes her anxious. She has 
multiple ﬁ  ngerprint passcodes for quick access. She will text in the shower, risking her phone’s life in 
dangerous, watery situations for self-
ies at the pool. She personalizes text 
tones to rank level of importance. Paragraph-long texts are the norm. 
She hates one-word responses, and 
she will always text back.
The “Voice-To-Text” texter:Gender is unknown. Typically a 
workaholic or a person on the go. Most texting occurs on lunch breaks 
or mid-transit via voice-to-text. 
Grammatically incorrect 99.99 per-cent of the time. Curse words appear 
with the ﬁ  rst letter followed by as-
terisks, because Siri don’t play. Can 
usually tell when a voice-to-texter 
is actually texting because of lower-
case “I’s” and fully spelled out curse 
words. Turnover time is usually 
lengthy. Will use excuses like, “I sent 
that hours ago,” or “Sorry, tied up in a meeting.” Paragraph-long texts are rare and usually the product of anger 
or story telling. Either loves to talk 
on the phone or hates to talk on the 
phone. There is no in-between.
The “Emoji Queen” texter:
A common breed of texters  (usu-
ally women — let’s be real here) that use emojis like they’re going 
out of style. These texters are com-
fortable with sending four lines of 
the laughing emoji followed by one 
crying emoji to express just how 
funny they found something. They 
often use emojis to replace words. Insert emoji crown here. They text 
back fast. They use emojis to show 
love and throw shade. Holidays and 
emojis are carefully coordinated with 
each other. Always pays phone bill 
on time.
The “Screenshot” texter:Deﬁ  nitely female. Also uses the 
laughing emoji often. Would sponta-
neously combust if screenshots ever became discoverable. Concentrates 
when using Snapchat so they don’t 
accidentally screenshot. Has more 
photos in screenshot folder than 
camera roll. Will talk smack via texts using screenshots. Not good at tell-
ing stories. Hates explaining things. 
Minimalist.
The “Read Receipts” texter:
Male (typically — a woman with 
read receipts on is like an albino alli-gator — they exist, but you don’t see 
them often). Doesn’t really follow 
rules. Couldn’t care less about what you think. Boss.
The “Let Me Get My Glasses” 
texter:
Male or female. Usually older. 
Doesn’t understand how to use emo-
jis so uses a colon and parenthesis to 
demonstrate emotion in texts. Can 
often be heard cursing about technol-
ogy. Prefers to call at 8 a.m. Always signs texts “love so and so.”The “Oh My God Someone 
Texted Me!” texter:
This texter comes in many forms. 
They either never have their phones on hand, because they know not to expect any messages, or they com-
pensate for the loss by spending 
heaps of time on their phone. On 
social media, type B is always the 
ﬁ  rst to like or comment on a status, 
retweet a photo or double tap for a 
like on the ‘gram. If you know this 
breed of texter, show them some 
love. Stat.
The “Five Texts That Should 
Have Been One” texter:
Big time coffee drinker. Easily ex-
cited, and often anxious. Has a lot to say. In everyday speech, this texter 
often jumbles words he or she tries to 
say too fast. Grammatically correct. 
Corrects mistakes before reader can 
read ﬁ  rst text. Often a victim of “Do Not Disturb.” A general guide  to the eight diﬀ  erent types of texters10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
Southpaw is a band relatively new to 
Gainesville’s music scene, releasing its ﬁ  rst 
demo record this month. The emo/punk band, 
with Joshua Galarneau on lead vocals/rhythm guitar, Jason Hubner on lead guitar, Bo Coker 
on bass/backing vocals and Kenneth Noble on 
drums, will play the Hardback Cafe on July 16 to debut the demo. I sat down with Galarneau 
to talk about the band’s start and its increasing 
success. 
Kirsten Chuba: How did Southpaw get 
started?
Joshua Galarneau: Southpaw actually be-
gan as an offshoot from “Fever Dreams,” an 
acoustic duo performed by Jason and Josh. 
After a few years, we wanted to develop our 
act into a full band. Reaching out to Bo, who 
we have known from the local scene, we began adding bass and backing vocals. After some online searching, we found our drummer, Ken-
neth. We attempted to develop “Fever Dreams” into a full arrangement but fell a bit short in 
the process. The songs didn’t really translate 
as well as we had hoped, so we started fresh 
with new material. From that, our ﬁ  rst song “Shipwrecked,” available on the new demo, was written.
KC: How would you describe your sound?
JG: Our sound is a mixture of clean ambient 
guitar riffs that transition to overdriven chords, punchy bass lines and catchy leads. The drums 
range from foot-tapping beats to heavy-hitting 
ﬁ  lls, while the vocals are subtle and calm one moment and then shift to gut-wrenching yells 
the next. Our lyrics are emotionally charged, 
bringing in our emo roots, while our shifting time signatures and dynamic chord structures 
bring out our post-punk, post-hardcore inﬂ  u-
ences. Some of our most notable inﬂ  uences in-
clude Brand New, Sunny Day Real Estate, Mi-
nus the Bear, Further Seems Forever, Boy Sets 
Fire and Ghosts & Vodka.
KC: What has your show/tour schedule 
been like?
JG: After writing together for about seven 
months, we played our ﬁ  rst show at Market Street back in May of this year. Since then, we’ve also played Hardback and The Backyard. 
For now, we are focused on breaking into the 
local scene and getting as many people to hear 
us as possible while continuing to work toward 
a full album. We’re looking forward to return-ing to Hardback for our July 16 demo release show. It’s a great venue and is very much part 
of Gainesville’s music history. After this show, we plan to focus on writing and ﬁ  nishing some new songs we’ve been working on. Later this 
year we will be looking to play more around Gainesville and start hitting some out-of-town venues around Florida. By early next year we 
hope to be recording a full-length and hitting 
the road for some small tours.
KC: What can people expect from your up-
coming show at the Hardback?
JG: The show will be lots of fun, and we 
are really excited to share the stage with Pa-
thos, Pathos, Elusion and Kindergarten Cop. All 
four bands are different styles, so there will be 
a little something for everyone. We won’t be 
selling any physical copies of the new release 
at the show, but we will have info on where it can be downloaded online. We may also have a 
surprise or two in store for the night.
KC: Can you talk about your upcoming 
demo?
JG: The demo, “Rookie Season,” is our ﬁ  rst 
release as a band. We’d like to thank David Mi-chael Bell of Haunted Muscle Beach Studios for 
recording and mastering. Although we are only 
releasing two tracks with this demo, we hope it 
will give people a taste of things to come from Southpaw. The ﬁ  rst track, “Shipwrecked,” is about ﬁ  nding yourself repeating a situation and 
expecting a different outcome. “Tired Legs,” the second track, is about the seemingly endless, day-to-day grind that can wear us all down.
KC: What do you think about the Gainesville 
music scene, especially for local bands? 
JG: Quoting Less Than Jake, we are deﬁ  -
nitely living in “Gainesville, rock city!” We 
personally love the music diversity here, and all of Southpaw’s members have been very ac-
tive in the scene over the past decade. There 
are so many talented acts that come out of Gainesville, and every year there seems to be 
something new. Almost any night of the week 
you can head downtown to any number of 
venues and hear anything from new and origi-
nal artists to cover bands. Some of our closest 
friends are members of various bands in town, including NoMore, Dikembe, Thatshisface, Ve-
locirapture, Consent, Jenarchy and Boyfriend Material. We hope the scene continues to ﬂ  our-
ish and that whether you are a college student, a local that’s been around or new in town, that you get out there and support the local scene!
Southpaw’s Hardback show on July 16 will 
also feature band Elusion, Kindergarten Cop 
and Pathos, Pathos. Doors open at 9 p.m. for 
the 10 p.m. show. 
Know of any other local bands I should 
check out? Send Kirsten an email at kchuba@
alligator.org.  Q&A: Sitting down with local punk band Southpaw
MUSICTHURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.Available 8/1/16. $1,100. or $275 per  bedroom 
Call / text 239-370-8735    8-22-16-21-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. available 7/1/16 & 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed in-ternet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   7-7-16-6-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Joshua 407-342-0617 / Charlie 407-810-3489     8-4-16-13-1
1 room, furnished, sliding glass doors to small privacy fenced back yard patio (du-plex). One female student roommate, dish-washer, washer/dryer in unit 2.5 miles from UF. High-spd internet included in $325 rent. 352 631 0737       7-26-16-10-1
Grad looking for male roommate postdoc, grad or mature undergrad. 2/2 apt, close to UF, avail Aug 1st, $350/mo + 1/2 util, con-tact Larry 443-939-6198. Located country village apt 2700 SW Archer Rd, Gainesville, FL     7-21-16-7-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-15-16-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF3BR/2BA w/ double sinks. All appliances in-cluding DW, W/D. Patio, 3 reserved parking places. $1200/mo. Call Claudette @ 352-359-5584   7-28-16-10-2
Luxury Apt: 1BR/1BA.
Granite counter tops, cable, washer, & drier
included.Close to Archer Rd, UF main
campus & Shands w/3 bus routes.
4076971571 or glorisapt.gville@gmail.com
7-26-16-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
1-2bd $325 shared ba, $375 own ba in 3/2 home. Peaceful 7.5 acres w oaks <10 mins to UF, Shands, Publix & shops! Spanish speakers encouraged. jrfong00@yahoo.com or txt 352.284.2654     7-28-16-10-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
For Sale - 1Bedroom/1 Bathroom,Renovated Ground floor unit, Ride the bus or bike to UFAsking $61,500352-234-3018 for info       7-7-5-5
Pristine Lake Front Liquidation!Saturday July 30 th3 Acres and 513 Feet of Shoreline $29,900Don’t Miss Out!Call TODAY for Your Preview Showing1-888- 270-4695       7-7-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     8-15-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor -
rections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST 
DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one day. No 
refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the 
first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     7-14-16-7-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up And Pay AvailableCall 888-689- 8647     7-7-1-12
DONATE YOUR CAR FORBREAST CANCER!Help United Breast Foundation’sEducation, Prevention & Support ProgramsFAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION1-866- 594-4556       7-7-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-15-25-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191      7-14-16-7-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
F/T receptionist for busy law firm. Communication, attention to detail, and multi-tasking skills a must. Previous experi -
ence a plus. Send resume tocarrillolawoffice@gmail.com      7-14-16-6-14
CSR (Customer Service Rep) needed part-time at University Air Center. Please apply online at UAC.aero.      8-2-16-10-14
Caregiver neededCompassionate caregiver needed for young lady with disability. Must be at least 18 years old, have a reliable vehicle,  and high school diploma or higher education.Over-nights and weekend shifts available.If interested, please contact Maryam Nikoonejad at (352)246-6039or Mr.Niko at (352)200-1017.     7-19-16-5-14EXPERIENCED OTR FLATBED DRIVERS
Earn 50 up to 55cpm loaded. $1000 Sign On
to qualified drivers. Good home time.
Call 843-266- 3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com 
EOE     7-7-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   1 3 
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake 
Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DISH Promotion!35th Anniversary! Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price LockLock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion!855-479- 7963      7-7-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?Settle for a fraction of what you owe!Results may vary.Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates 1-877- 330-3429        7-7-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800- 224-0305      7-7-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope &amp; Help LineFor a free assessment, 1-855- 995-3142      7-7-1-16Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 7/11-7/14 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach-ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then workshops” to register.      7-7-4-20
Your input matters!Help UF plan community outreach event 5 min research survey http://bit.ly/1YuT2SB Questions? (352)273-3690      7-19-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND. WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?
You and Your Family May be entitled
to significant CASH AWARD.
Call 1-855- 389-3099        7-7-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
1. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
When was the European Union found-
ed?
2. MOVIES: In which animated Dis-
ney movie did the character of Sebas-
tian appear?
3. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which pres-
ident received a patent for a device that would lift boats over shoals and obstructions in a river?
4. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in phrase “corpus Christi” mean?
5. THEATER: Who wrote and com-
posed the play “Camelot”?
6. HISTORY: Where was the Consti-
tution signed in 1787?
7. MATH: What type of geometri -
cal figure would the term “deltoid” describe?
8. LITERATURE: Which author 
invented the character of Hercule Poirot?
9. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of whales called?
10. GEOGRAPHY: What is the lon-
gest river in Europe?
Answers
1. Nov. 1, 19932. “The Little Mermaid”3. Abraham Lincoln4. Body of Christ5. Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick 
Loewe
6. Independence Hall, Philadelphia7. A triangle8. Agatha Christie9. A pod or a gam10. The V olga
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 4, 2016 King Features Weekly ServiceACROSS
1 Corner piece
5 Singer James9 One of more
than 21 million
Indians
13 British nobleman
14 Composer
Janácek
15 Perfect17 Shot that can’t be
blocked
19 Complaint
20 Office supply
22 Elbows, e.g.
25 Cause to roll in
the aisles
26 Electrolysis
particle
27 Jaguar, for one
30 Queen who
succeeded
William III
31 Ring result32 Support for many
a 29-Down
33 More degrading34 Gucci competitor36 Parade sight
38 “My thoughts 
are ... ”
40 Economist Smith
41 Special __44 “The Daily Show”
host Trevor __
45 Malt option
48 Queen’s subject
49 “__ a man who
wasn’t there”
50 Pug or Peke
51 Certain trio
member
55 Really enjoyed56 Hard times60 Haggard of
country
61 Sets a price of62 Not in the pink63 R&B-influenced
genre
64 Editor’s mark
65 Catering aid
DOWN
1 NBA employee
2 Homonym of 
3-Down
3 Homonym of 
2-Down
4 Habitual booster?5 Pre-coll.6 Gull relative7 Film for which
Jessica Lange
won her first Oscar
8 Plus9 __ cup
10 Inventor’s need11 Stock12 “Try this”16 “My Fair Lady”
lyricist
18 People mover21 “Norma __”22 Square on a
muffin
23 Relative of a puffin24 What many a
countdown clockdoes
28 Suffix denoting
resemblance
29 Support garb30 Gp. for drivers33 Military aircraft
hold
35 Bit of a cheer36 Org. regulating
vaccines
37 __ school38 Needing to be
bailed out ... or
where 20-, 27-,
45- and 51-Across may befound39 Supports a
cause
40 Most dilettantish42 Opposite of 
post-
43 Qantas hub, in
itineraries
45 Site of the
George W. Bushpresidentiallibrary
46 Eco-friendly
wheels47 Antarctic explorer
Shackleton
49 Force52 Pilot’s alphabet
ender
53 Wedding tradition54 MIT center?:
Abbr.
57 __ bubble58 Record label for
P!nk
59 Something to
look up to
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/07/1607/07/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, July 7, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 25 Lost & Found
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Caeleb Dressel will swim 
for the United States in the Olympics. For a full list of current and former Gators competing in Rio, see pg. 16Poll Results: Which UF freshman had the best season?THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Staff Report
The next edition of the Alligator Awards is here, 
and this time we debate which individual moment 
was the best from the 2015-16 season. Sports writ-ers Ray Boone, Matt Brannon and Alejandro López join alligatorSports Editors Ian Cohen and Ethan 
Bauer in a roundtable discussion to debate the ﬁ  ve 
nominees. Debates will go in alphabetical order by 
the writer’s last name.
Bauer: Upset in the O'Dome
Like the other contenders on this list, the wom-
en’s basketball team’s victory over FSU had dra-ma, excitement and provided a powerful memory. 
But it had one thing that nothing else on this list 
had: the upset factor. 
The Seminoles entered the game ranked No. 6 
and were thought to be title contenders. It was also their season opener. 
The Gators, meanwhile, were unranked, un-
derperforming and unenthusiastic after a season-opening loss to unranked Temple. 
Florida had lost to FSU three times in a row. 
And early on, UF appeared headed for No. 4.
But the Gators stormed back in the fourth quar-
ter, outscoring the Seminoles 31-15 in the game’s 
ﬁ  nal frame. Florida 82, Florida State 72. 
The crowd at the game was signiﬁ  cantly larger 
than the average crowd for women’s games, and 
when UF completed its comeback, the folks in the stands took notice. 
It was a moment with enough force to propel 
the team to 12-straight wins, and one that meant more because of the team’s prior struggles. 
Boone: If there's a Will, there's a CallawayFlorida football experienced a resurgence during 
the 2015 season, and it all started with its fourth-quarter comeback against Tennessee on Sept. 26. 
Down 27-14 with less than ﬁ  ve minutes re-
maining, it wasn’t looking good for the Gators. It seemed like the Volunteers would ﬁ  nally end their decade-long losing streak against Florida. 
Then UF quarterback Will Grier found his 
touch. 
Grier, who was sporadic through three-and-a-
half quarters, engineered a drive to put the Gators within striking distance. With 4:09 left on the clock, Grier ﬂ  icked a ﬁ  ve-yard pass to receiver Brandon Powell for a touchdown. The following extra point shrunk Tennessee’s lead to six.
After a quick three-and-out by Tennessee, Flor-
ida’s offense was back on the ﬁ  eld with just over 
two minutes left in the game.The ensuing drive did not begin as planned.
On ﬁ  rst down, UT linebacker Jalen Reeves-
Maybin sniffed out UF’s screen pass to running back Kelvin Taylor and tackled him for a four-yard loss. 
The next two plays were incomplete passes to 
receiver Demarcus Robinson.
Fourth-and-14. Do or die. This was it for the 
Gators. 
Enter Antonio Callaway.Grier delivered a perfect strike to the freshman 
receiver who freed up from a block from Powell and sprinted 63 yards down the sideline for the ﬁ  rst touchdown of his career. As the Florida fans in attendance screamed in delight, the once-loud Tennessee fans fell silent.
The Volunteers still had a chance to win, 
though.
On the last play of the game, UT kicker Aaron 
Medley lined up a 55-yard kick to break the Vols’ losing streak. The ball drifted right, just missing the edge of the goal post, and the game was over.
Florida won, and Tennessee lost.Again.  
Brannon: The Turnaround in Tiger Town
Florida football fans chanted “Fire Muschamp” 
as the Gators fell behind 42-0 in 2014’s homecom-ing game against Missouri. 
That’s why Florida’s 21-3 win on the Tigers’ 
home turf one year later was the Gators’ most sat-isfying moment of 2015. The win marked Florida’s 
re-emergence onto the national stage. 
After the win, Florida fans had it all. 
A 6-0 record, the best start since 2012.A No. 11 national ranking.An elite secondary complemented by a passing 
game ﬁ  ring on all cylinders via Will Grier’s ﬁ  nger-tips. 
A winning streak highlighted by a miracle ﬁ  n-
ish against Tennessee, a blowout win over No. 3 Ole Miss and a road victory against the two-time defending Southeastern Conference East Division Champions, Missouri, who had beaten the Gators by multiple touchdowns two seasons in a row.
When the Gators arrived in the Show Me State 
on Oct. 10 in front of more than 70,000 Tigers fans, Florida showed the country that it was back. Grier threw for more than 200 yards while Kelvin Tay-
lor rushed for 99 and two touchdowns. A 40-yard 
pick-6 courtesy of Jalen Tabor put the game on ice and lit Florida fans on ﬁ  re. 
The fans who’d chanted “Fire Muschamp” were  Alligator Awards: Best individual moment of 2015-16
Staff Report
Linebacker Jarrad Davis and 
defensive backs Marcus Maye and 
Jalen Tabor were named to the Chuck Bednarik Award preseason watch list, an honor awarded to the best collegiate defensive play-er of the year, the Maxwell Foot-ball Club announced Tuesday.
Davis, now a senior, ﬁ  nished 
second on the team with 98 tack-les and third on UF with 11 tack-les-for-loss last season, starting 12 of Florida’s 14 games.
Maye saw his production in-
crease last year, compiling 82 tackles on his way to being named a First Team All-American by USA Today. Maye also forced ﬁ  ve fumbles, good for second-most in the country.
Tabor had a breakout 2015 
season as a sophomore. The cornerback started nine games while collecting a team-high ty-ing four interceptions and break-ing up a team-high 14 passes. He also earned a spot on the AP All-Southeastern Conference First Team.
Tight end makes watch list:Meanwhile, junior tight end 
DeAndre Goolsby was named to the John Mackey Award pre-season watch list on Wednesday. The award honors college foot-ball’s best tight end. 
Last season, Goolsby caught 17 passes for 277 yards and a touchdown. 
Last year’s winner, Hunter 
Henry of Arkansas, caught 51 passes for 739 yards and three touchdowns. 
Past winners of the Mackey 
Award include current NFL play-ers Nick O’Leary, Tyler Eifert and Heath Miller. 
 Award Roundup: Four football players named to watch listsSEE AWARDS,  PAGE 15Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Bridget Sloan stands with her award for the best individual all-around 
performance on Day 1 of the 2016 NCAA Championship meet. 
Antonio Callaway: 37.5 %  Kelly Barnhill: 20.8 %  Sam Horsﬁ  eld: 16.7 % Alicia Boren: 12.5 %
KeVaughn Allen: 12.5 %THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR  15 
ready to crown Jim McElwain king 
of Florida. And for two days, Gator fans had a sense of school spirit that would have made Tim Tebow weep. 
By Monday morning, Grier was 
suspended. 
But if only for a weekend, Flori-
da’s win over Missouri marked the Gators’ successful turnaround, the most exciting moment a Florida fan could’ve asked for. 
Cohen: Alonso homers twice 
in return from injury
Two months ago, Peter Alonso 
was Florida’s leader in batting av-erage, RBIs and home runs. 
He was the power hitter in the 
middle of the Gators’ lineup, taking up the slack left by former outfield-er Harrison Bader and a slumping JJ Schwarz.
Then Alonso was hit in the hand 
by a fastball against Vanderbilt, sidelining him for several weeks 
with a fracture in his left hand.
Then he came back.
In UF’s NCAA Regional opener 
on June 3, Alonso walked into the batter’s box for the first time since May 13, kicked the dirt off the plate and centered himself toward the mound.
The crowd was chanting his 
name. 
The dugout was watching close-
ly. 
The fastball came.This time, it landed deep past 
the left-field wall at McKethan Sta-dium. A two-run homer.
As the junior circled the bases 
and as the crowd erupted, Alonso’s teammates left the dugout to greet him at home plate.
But Alonso wasn’t done.He hit another home run in the 
fourth inning, this time a one-run shot to give UF a 7-1 lead against 
Bethune-Cookman.
So why was this the best indi-
vidual moment of Florida sports in 
the last year?
After he fractured his hand, 
Alonso wasn’t sure if he would return. In fact, with the MLB draft just a few weeks away, he thought he had played his last game in a 
Florida uniform.
But he did make it back, and in 
his return, he delivered one of the 
most memorable performances in Florida baseball’s history.
López: Sloan’s SendoffAs time goes on, most people 
abandon the notion of the story-book ending. 
To all those who have lost faith 
in the fairy tale story: Bridget Sloan proved you wrong. 
March 11 was Senior Night at 
the O’Dome, the final home meet 
of Sloan’s collegiate career. 
In front of a crowd of 7,039, the 
former Olympian took to the floor 
one last time, walking out to a standing ovation from an emotion-ally charged crowd.
She saluted the judges and fans, 
like she had countless times before.
And then, the magic began. 
With trademark charisma and 
precision, she danced and tumbled 
across the center mat, sticking each landing with ease. 
The music cut at the end of her 
routine. The audience roared in ap-proval.
And then, both judges revealed 
their scorecards. 10. The din elevated to a roar.10. It was a moment fit for the sil-
ver screen: The Florida Gators’ winningest gymnast of all time 
slammed the book shut on her 
Gator career with a perfect 10 in her final routine in Gainesville.
It may not have been a 63-yard 
pitch-and-catch touchdown at the Swamp.
What it was, though, was some-
thing out of a fairy tale. 
It was the University of Flori-
da’s greatest individual moment of the 2015-2016 athletic season, a fitting exit for a true legend, both on campus and in the gymnastics world at large. 
Which moment do you think 
was the best from the 2015-16 sea-son? Vote online at alligator.org/sports.
AWARDS,  from pg14Rounding out the nominees are moments from baseball and gymnastics16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2016
Track and field
• Andres Arroyo (Puerto Rico) - 800m
• Marquis Dendy (United States) - Long Jump
• Genevieve LaCaze (Australia) - 3,000m Steeplechase; 5,000m
• Eddie Lovett (U.S. Virgin Islands) - 100m Hurdles
• Kemal Mesic (Bosnia) - Shot Put
• Shara Proctor (Great Britain) - Long Jump
• Stipe Zunic (Croatia) - Shot Put
Swimming
• Elizabeth Beisel (United States) - 400m individual medley
• Melani Costa-Schmid (Spain) - 200m Free, 400m Free, 4x100m Free Relay, 4x200 
Free Relay• Mitch D’Arrigo (Italy) - 200m Free, 4x200m Free Relay
• Caeleb Dressel (United States) - 400m Free, 4x100m Free Relay
• Conor Dwyer (United States) - 400m Free, 200m Free, 4x200m Free Relay
• Ryan Lochte (United States) - 4x200m Free Relay, 200m individual medley
• Hilda Luthersdottir (Iceland) - 100m breast, 200m breast,  200m individual medley
• Corey Main (New Zealand) - 100m backstroke
• Sebastien Rousseau (South Africa) - 400m individual medley
• Eduardo Solaeche-Gomez (Spain) - 200m individual medley
• Jan Switkowski (Poland) - 4x100m Free Relay
• Dan Wallace (Great Britain) - 4x200m Free Relay
• Pawel Werner (Poland) - 4x200m Free Relay
Volleyball
• Aury Cruz (Puerto Rico)- T eam GATORS COMPETING IN THE RIO OLYMPICS (SO FAR)