We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 106 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016
KeVaughn Allen is carrying Florida’s 
basketball team
He is UF’s second-leading scorer, pg. 13
‘A tale as old as time, Beauty and the Beast’
UF group performs for children with illnesses and disabilities, pg. 5
UF starts science summer program
It’s for high school students to learn about life sciences, pg. 9‘Queerness and oddity’
Check out the photo story of the grand 
opening of the Rainbow Suite in the Reitz Union, pg. 8
EPILOGUE
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Chance Wolf had a heart of gold and the 
wit to match.
As a UF telecommunication senior, Wolf 
joked about his professor’s New England ac-
cent. In turn, his professor would tell Wolf he 
never heard of a hockey player from Florida.
On Jan. 31, at the age of 20, Chance Wolf 
fell to his death from the sixth ﬂ  oor of Social 
28 apartments.
Now, in the basement of Weimer Hall, 
there is an empty chair in professor Tim Sorel’s lab.It reminds him of the long nights Wolf 
spent editing videos and audio for class proj-ects.
On Thursday afternoon, Sorel shared 
memories with about 50 of Wolf’s friends and family members in the Samuel P. Harn 
Museum of Art.
Sorel remembers the ﬁ  rst time he met 
Wolf.“First thing I said to him then was, “Are 
you behaving yourself?’ He said, ‘Absolutely 
not’,” Sorel said.
      
There did turn out to be a hockey player 
from Florida.
After moving from Weston, Florida, to 
Gainesville, Wolf spent a lot of time in vans.
He joined UF’s hockey club team and be-
friended Mark Finkelstein in a van headed to Alabama.
Wolf was a forward and Finkelstein, a 
20-year-old UF accounting junior, played goalie.They hardly interacted during games, but 
it was a different story off the ice.  
“Instantly, that weekend, he became one 
of the boys,” Finkelstein said.
When the team took a van to South Caro-
lina, Wolf made it his mission to ﬁ  nd a party.
“He was just a really fun-loving kid,” he 
said.
Less than three months later, as Finkel-
stein took a van to Tampa, he received a text from his friend.
“I heard something happened and there 
were a bunch of ambulances around Social 28,” his friend texted him.Friends, family celebrate the life of UF student
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
CARNIVAL NIGHT
Melanie Mercado (center), an 18-year-old UF biotechnology freshman from Puerto Rico, waits in 
line at the FIX for Noche de Carnavales, a party presented by UF’s Colombian, Brazilian and Ven-ezuelan student clubs on Thursday night. Four-hundred tickets were pre-sold to the event, which featured music from multiple DJs playing a variety of Latin dance and house music to commemo-rate Latin America’s carnival celebration.
HE WAS PAID $15,000.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
When Lil B walked into the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on 
Thursday night, he took the mi-
crophone and yelled “Florida” 
to a crowd of about 600.
UF students listened to Lil B, 
the rapper known as “The Based 
God,” as part of the Reitz Union 
Grand Reopening Celebration Week. 
About 100 people stood in a 
standby line to see the rapper. 
During his talk, he encouraged 
students to set goals for them-selves and be happy with who they are.“There is a lot of things on 
my mind,” he said. “There are a lot of things I do want to speak about.”
He told the audience he pre-
pared a quote especially for UF students.
“We deserve the right to 
live,” Lil B said. “We deserve the right to love.”
During his speech, Lil B re-
sponded to students as the cheered and shouted.
“I’m listening to you guys,” 
he said. “I care about you.”
Lil B also motivated students 
when he spoke about how he 
has set goals for himself. 
He said he is independent 
and has no corporate backing. Lil B tells students to 
set goals, stay positive
By Rebecca Papilsky
Alligator Contributing Writer
After its renovation, UF’s Reitz Union 
might be one of the most sustainable build-
ings on campus.
The building is under review to become 
platinum-certiﬁ  ed in Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, the highest level of certiﬁ  cation for energy efﬁ  ciency a building can have, said Dustin Stephany, the sustainable building coordinator at UF. 
For it to be certiﬁ  ed, it will have to pass 
inspections for water and energy sustain-ability.
UF ranks third among all U.S. colleges 
for the most LEED-certiﬁ  ed buildings, Stephany said. If the Reitz Union becomes LEED-certiﬁ  ed, it will be the fourth plati-num-level building on campus.    
All of the lights in the new Reitz Union 
and the connecting Constans Theatre are LED lights, he said, which are energy ef-ﬁ  cient.
Much of the construction on the Reitz 
Union used recycled materials such as con-crete, metals and wood, said Eddie Dan-
iels, the executive director of the Reitz.
“We recycled everything that we possi-
bly could,” he said.Almost half of the materials came from 
local sources within 500 miles of the uni-
versity, Stephany said. This reduced the carbon impact of transporting materials.
The building was designed to save 33 
percent on water and 42 percent on energy, Stephany said.
“People spend the majority of their lives 
in buildings, so it is important for us to 
ﬁ  nd ways to make the indoor environment 
as healthy as possible,” Stephany said.  UF Reitz Union may get sustainability certificationSEE EPILOGUE,  PAGE 4
It has to pass inspections“First thing I said to him then was, 
“Are you behaving yoursel?’ He said, 
‘Absolutely not’.”
Tim Sorel
UF professor
SEE LIL B,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
The Beginner’s Photography 
Workshop
Today from 3:30 p.m. to 7 p.m., Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs and Sparks 
Magazine are re-offering their 
beginner photography work-shop to teach skills needed for capturing a professional-qual-ity photo. Learn fundamental concepts of photography using DSLR cameras. You will then have an opportunity to test your skills outside. They hope 
APIA-identified and non-APIA 
identified individuals will learn to express themselves through this creative medium and be-come inspired to submit to the 2015-2016 APIA Anthology. Please bring your own camera. A limited number of cameras will be provided.
GatorNights
GatorNights will celebrate its 15-year anniversary and the grand re-opening of the Reitz Union renovation and expan-sion with a Wonderland-themed event today from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. The event will feature free 
bowling in the newly renovated 
game room, a zip line, carnival rides, a T-shirt giveaway, per-formances from Theatre Strike Force, No Southern Accent and The Treble Makers and a comedy show featuring Ron 
Funches. The event will also 
feature two showings of the movie “Spectre” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free breakfast during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees 
must be current students to 
participate. Students are al-lowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Graduate recital: Scott Ziegler, 
organThe School of Music presents an organ recital by gradu-
ate student Scott Ziegler in 
the University Auditorium on Saturday at 2 p.m. The program includes chorale preludes, a rumba, a tango and a multi-movement tribute to Florida.
National Society of Leadership 
and Success
The National Society of 
Leadership and Success is hav-ing their orientation for new members Saturday at 6 p.m. in the Computer Science and Engineering building, Room E222. NSLS is the nation’s largest leadership honor soci-ety and strives to empower its members and help them reach their goals. Come out to meet the members and the execu-
tive board and to hear about 
everything the organization has going on this semester, includ-ing fundraisers and commu-nity service events. This is the first on-campus event for new members and the first step to becoming an inducted member. Sandwiches and drinks will be 
provided.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 106
HIGH  84° LOW  52°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Josh Venkataraman met Carol 
Greenlee, the daughter of one of 
the men he hopes to exonerate for a decades-old sexual assault case, on Thursday.
When they met for the ﬁ  rst 
time, the two hugged at UF’s Levin College of Law before an event discussing the Groveland Four. Venkataraman, a UF telecommuni-cation senior, has been collecting signatures to exonerate her father and three other boys accused of raping a 17-year-old white woman 
in 1949. The boys are known as 
the Groveland Four.
“It was a frozen moment,” Ven-
kataraman said, about meeting Greenlee. “That was like ‘Wow, this is her. This is this person that’s up on a pedestal for me.’”
The 22-year-old said his petition 
has about 8,300 signatures. The 
families may have to wait until a 
bill reaches the Florida Legislature in February 2017 before knowing if the four will be exonerated.
If Gov. Rick Scott acknowledges 
Venkataraman’s petition anytime before then, the boys will have justice sooner, he said.
During the event, Gilbert King, 
the author of “Devil in the Grove: Thurgood Marshall, the Grove-land Boys, and the Dawn of a New America,” discussed his book, which outlines events surrounding the boys’ arrests and the lack of evidence that convicted them.
King described the initial trial of 
Charles Greenlee, Samuel Shepard 
and Walter Irvin as a “travesty of 
justice.” The fourth boy, Ernest Thomas, was shot by a sheriff’s posse before trial.  
Henrietta Irvin spoke to the 
crowd of around 70 about the day her brother was accused.
She was 16 when the boys were 
arrested in 1949. Henrietta, the 
younger sister of Walter Irvin, said 
she had just married Shepard’s brother.
“I didn’t know what to do be-
cause I was a kid,” she said. “It just broke my heart. I know he’s innocent.”
After Irvin and Shepard were 
sentenced to death in Groveland in 
Lake County, Florida, the U.S. Su-
preme Court ordered a retrial, King said. Lake County’s Sheriff at the time, Willis McCall, was driving the two men to their retrial in 1951 
when he turned down a dirt road.
After McCall radioed for help, 
witnesses found Irvin and Shepard 
lying in a ditch, handcuffed and with multiple bullet wounds, King said. Henrietta Irvin’s brother was still alive; Shepard was not.
King said the FBI investigated 
the shooting after Walter Irvin 
claimed McCall shot both men in 
cold blood.
“One of the most horrifying 
things in all this research is that the report was sealed,” King said. “No one ever saw the results of these reports.”
Demarcus Merritt, a UF Hous-
ing and Residence Education area 
coordinator, said he attended the 
event to honor the Groveland Four’s legacy.
“It’s always a little painful to 
hear these stories,” the 34-year-old said. “I could have been this per-son; I can be this person.”
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgThe Groveland Four
Looking ahead in Gainesville
UF student veterans celebrated  
Students searched for little soldiers at UF on 
Thursday.
To start the monthlong Bet on Vets celebra-
tion, two student organizations painted toy sol-
diers a brass color and hid them on campus.
UF’s Bateman Competition team, a public re-
lations group, collaborated with UF’s Collegiate 
Veterans Society to bring traditional and veteran 
students together.
The organizations will hold several events on 
UF and Santa Fe College campuses in February and March.
Stephen Spangler served six years in the U.S. 
Army before he moved to Gainesville.
Spangler, a 30-year-old UF civil engineering 
junior, said his friend found a brass army man 
near Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, entering him into a 
drawing for Walt Disney World tickets.
He said enrolling at UF was both a dream 
come true and a tough transition.
In the military, the day ends after your shift, 
he said. In school, the work follows you outside of class.
“Everything is structured in the military,” he 
said. “In the civilian world, you’re on your own.”
Erin Wronka, a Bateman team member, said 
about 750 veterans currently attend UF, and even more have enrolled at Santa Fe.
Wronka, a 21-year-old UF public relations se-
nior, said the event has led to meaningful inter-
actions in the university community thus far.
“Students are going to get to know these in-
credible men and women,” she said.  
Spangler was among those veterans Thursday.“It makes me really happy to see other people 
appreciate what you did,” he said.Locals host LGBTQ+ open mic 
The Civic Media Center will host an open dis-
cussion for the LGBTQ+ community Saturday 
night at 8 p.m.
Queer People of Color United, a UF student 
organization, is partnering with Mellow Soul for the Queer People of Color Open Mic at the CMC, situated at 433 S. Main St.
Attendees are suggested to give a donation of 
$3 to $5. 
Saturday’s event is geared toward providing 
queer people of color from Gainesville and UF a safe place to share without fear of judgment, 
said Michael Caputo, president of QPOC United. 
QPOC United programs focus on race and eth-
nicity and how they interact with queerness and 
gender, Caputo said. 
When Caputo became president, he felt a dis-
connect between the QPOC communities of UF and Gainesville. 
This year, the organization programmed more 
off-campus events to encourage the communities 
to interact, Caputo said. 
Over the summer, Caputo’s friend convinced 
him to attended Mellow Soul Tuesdays, a bi-
weekly open mic night at Rockeys Dueling Piano 
Bar. 
When he walked in, a biracial woman recited 
a piece on whether she was black enough. 
“That really resonated with me because I’m 
also biracial,” Caputo said. “I was kind of in awe of the whole experience.” 
He reached out to the founder of Mellow Soul, 
Ashley Wallace, who said it made sense to team 
up. 
“Queer people of color are underrepresented. 
That’s why we wanted to give them a space to express themselves,” Wallace said. 
- Catherine Dickson - Andrea BenaimIT’S A 24-HOUR EVENT.
By Paris Olkes
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Hillel will host the ﬁ  rst-ever Build-
Up.
During the 24-hour event, students can 
make products that help people with cog-
nitive and developmental disabilities, said 
Rabbi Adam Grossman, a co-founder of the 
event.
From today until Sunday, teams of three 
to six students will develop their own cre-ations, such as an app that simulates a sup-port group for people with mental health challenges, Grossman said.
He said Camp Living Wonders, an over-
night Jewish camp that helps children with disabilities, helped create the idea.
Tonight, Hillel is hosting a meet and 
greet with food trucks from 7:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. Teams will then start planning 
and building before judging starts Saturday 
at 7:30 p.m. and ends Sunday at 6:30 p.m.
Students can come and go from the ven-
ue as they please, Grossman said, and it runs the whole weekend to give participants plenty of time.Anyone can join, including entrepre-
neurs, engineers, marketers, physical thera-pists or simply people who want to make an impact, he said.
The UF Health Shands Department of 
Occupational Therapy helped Grossman categorize several existing problems: mobil-ity, sensory, ﬁ  ne motor, communication and mental health.
The teams will use the sectors to catego-
rize the products, he said.
Rachel Gott, a 20-year-old UF elementary 
education sophomore, said she has a deep respect for the event’s participants.
“I hope that when I am a teacher, chil-dren with special needs will have enough programs and tools that make it easier to learn and adapt in everyday life,” she said.
The winning team’s product will be 
passed to a production company, which can then decide whether it will distribute the product on a mass scale.
However, the event is not just about 
making a product, Grossman said.
“It’s about creating a consciousness of 
the challenges that exist for a large popula-tion that is many times forgotten about.”
Students can sign up at any time at build-
ups.org  Hillel hosts event to benefit those with disabilities
CAMPUS
By Nate Phillips
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tobias Buckell discussed how 
he foresees a new ocean, made from the melted North Pole, to an audience of about 70 on Thurs-day.
Buckell spoke at UF’s ﬁ  rst 
Imagining Climate Change Spring seminar, which was held Wednesday and Thursday. The symposium used academic and science-ﬁ  ction writing to discuss global warming. The event con-cluded in the Smathers Library on Thursday night.
Eight guest speakers presented 
at the symposium; each talked about his or her perspective on ﬁ  ction, science and the future of climate-related issues.
Buckell said works of science 
ﬁ  ction are important because they engage an audience that would not typically read academic texts. 
Some ﬁ  nd scientiﬁ  c studies too 
dry, he said, and novels can help educate people through storytell-ing.
“Climate change is one of the 
biggest problems we’re facing,” Buckell said. “And novels help us grapple with things that are larger than ourselves.”
Buckell said many try to la-
bel his novel “Arctic Rising” as a ﬁ  ctional dystopian novel. But he said the data behind the book shows the plot’s setting is realis-tic.
“The novel is about the future, 
and that future is happening right now,” Buckell said.
Madeline Gangnes, the logis-
tics coordinator of Imagining Cli-mate Change, said hearing from famous science-ﬁ  ction writers could help global warming be-come relatable. She hopes people learn about climate change.
“It’s an issue that affects ev-
erybody,” Gangnes said. “If we 
can make it accessible, it will help 
us mitigate the inevitable.”
Carson Bell, a 20-year-old UF 
sustainability studies junior, at-tended the event. She said the is-sue of climate change is very im-portant to her.
“If no one else is going to take 
care of the world, I want to dedi-
cate my life to it,” Bell said.  UF hosts climate 
change seminar“Chance is dead.”
The team honored Wolf’s mem-
ory with a win against the Univer-sity of South Florida the same day.
A week before, Wolf scored his 
ﬁ  rst-ever goal against the Univer-sity of Miami.
Finkelstein heard Wolf celebrate 
with his coach.
“I told you I could do it,” Wolf 
said.
      
During Thursday’s ceremony, 
UF President Kent Fuchs mourned.
“At the University of Florida, 
our students are our spirit,” he said.
Wolf’s friends later presented 
his family with a large, colorful tarp emblazoned with the face of a Florida Panther, set inside the logo of his favorite band, Sublime.
UF student Mackenzy Tejeda 
wiped tears from her eyes and ad-dressed the audience.  
“Looking around, he really did 
love every single person in this room — so much, so much,” she said. “And he’ll take care of you every day.”
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgEPILOGUE,  from pg 1He was 20 years old
He isn’t signed with a label.
“There is nothing wrong with small 
steps and setting goals,” Lil B said.
He also said students should continue 
working hard.
“I respect you guys because you are 
learning daily, pushing your minds,” Lil B 
said. “You are pushing yourselves to the 
maximum, and I really respect that.”
UF zoology freshman Xavier Edwards 
has followed the rapper for nine years. He said his license plate is “BASED21.”
“He always brings a positive mentality, 
and he stays based,” the 18-year-old said. “Based is keeping the positive attitude and not caring what other people do to deter 
you from your goals.”
Austin Brown, Reitz Union Board En-
tertainment co-director of the bands com-
mittee, said he’s wanted to bring Lil B to campus since August and had planned Thursday’s talk since December.
“Lil B is just going to be the ﬁ  rst of many 
hallmark events at the expanded Reitz,” the 20-year-old UF statistics junior said. “He is a very well-known celebrity. His fan 
base is very large and very devoted.”
UF soil and water science sophomore 
Chris Miglioranzi wore a shirt that said “F-
-- Kevin Durant,” referencing a song Lil B released in 2014. 
Miglioranzi has followed the rapper for 
ﬁ  ve years. He said he didn’t know what to expect Lil B to talk about.
“I saw that he gave a speech at MIT, but 
I never thought he would come to UF,” the 20-year-old said. 
@MerylKornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgLIL B,  from pg 1He’s known as The Based God
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016
California rapper Lil B speaks to a crowded Reitz Union Grand Ballroom 
about positivity, his experience with music and other subjects on Thurs-day evening. “I respect you guys because you are learning daily, pushing your minds, ” Lil B said. “You are pushing yourselves to the maximum, and I really respect that. ”
Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffCourtesy to the Alligator
Chance Wolf, 20, fell to his death from the sixth ﬂ  oor of Social 28 apart-ments on Jan. 31, 2016. Wolf was a UF telecommunication senior.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
UF GROUP PERFORMS FOR 
CHILDREN WITH ILLNESSES 
AND DISABILITIES.
By Ann Ostrander
Alligator Contributing Writer
A group of 35 students is putting 
on a production for children with 
illnesses and disabilities today.
The White Coat Company, a 
student-run organization through UF’s College of Medicine, will give its last showing of “Beauty and the 
Beast” at 7 p.m. at the Stetson Med-
ical Sciences Building Auditorium, situated at 1345 Center Drive. 
The play started Tuesday on the 
pediatric floor of UF Health Shands 
Hospital.
The plays the White Coat Com-
pany performs are typically Disney 
productions and are full musicals, 
including live instrumentalists, sing-
ing and dancing, said Rachel Butts, a first-year UF medical student. In the past, they’ve put on “The Little Mermaid” and “Aladdin.”
The UF College of Medicine pro-
vides the company with a stipend, and the students create and gather the props, sets and costumes, Butts 
said. 
Performances are free for chil-
dren and their families.
Butts plays Belle in this year’s 
production of “Beauty and the Beast.” She said the group is ex-
cited to be able to perform for the children.“It just brings so much joy to the 
kids,” the 23-year-old said. “The first performance we did on the pe-diatric floor, the kids’ faces were so in awe.”
Butts said the medical students 
in the company have been prac-ticing during their lunch breaks in between classes almost every day since October.
John Mayfield, a first-year UF 
medical student, plays the Beast. Mayfield said he believes it is im-
portant for medical students to do 
more for patients than the purely technical aspects of medicine.
“Medicine is a combination of 
science and art, and a lot of times in 
the classroom, we lose the art,” the 
37-year-old said. “It’s nice to have the pure art every now and then to balance our lives, because we do so 
much technical work.”
Mayfield said he enjoys perform-
ing for the children in the pediatric 
unit of Shands and for disabled chil-dren and adults, such as those at 
Tacachale, a center for people with 
developmental disabilities. They did a performance there Wednesday.
“The most rewarding part is the 
children,” Mayfield said.
Mayfield, who has an almost-
2-year-old daughter, said he wants her to see him act. He said he wants 
children to enjoy theater as much as 
he does.
“In the pediatric hospital, when 
I do my roar as the Beast and a little boy does the roar back, or when a 
little girl is giving me the stink-eye 
because I’m yelling at Belle to come down for dinner, that’s the best stuff,” he said.
‘A tale as old as time, Beauty and the Beast’
Courtesy to the Alligator
Rachel Butts (left) plays the part of Belle in “Beauty and the Beast” alongside John Mayfield, who plays the 
Beast. Both first-year UF medical students, the pair performs with the White Coat Company, a student-run organization through the College of Medicine, on the pediatric floor at UF Health Shands Hospital.
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville became Florida’s first city 
to granted the title of a “Welcoming City” 
on Thursday.
Commissioners passed a resolution by 
unanimous consent to make the city more immigrant-friendly at the City Commission meeting. This was the third and final hear-ing to pass the title.
Paula Roetscher, a UF geography and 
sustainability studies senior, will become executive director of the nonprofit Wel-coming Gainesville, Inc., which was in-
corporated in December 2015. She told 
commissioners what it means to become a welcoming city.
“A welcoming city is one that wel-
comes immigrants and foreigners no mat-
ter where they come from,” Roetscher, 21, 
said.
Mayor-Commissioner Pro Tempore 
Craig Carter asked if the resolution was 
necessary.
Roetscher replied Gainesville is already diverse and full of international students. 
By adopting the title, Gainesville will set 
an example for the rest of the state, she 
said.
“We can make it known to everyone,” 
she said. “This is a title not just given to anyone.”
Commissioner Harvey Budd said this 
title is relevant to him as an immigrant.
“A lot of the world doesn’t know we’re 
an international city,” he said. “In real 
business terms, it will make a difference 
in marketing this place.”When the commission allowed for citi-
zens to comment, officials from UF’s Inter-
national Student Services offered support, 
while other residents thought the resolu-tion was dangerous.
Darlene Pifalo said Gainesville is al-
ready friendly.
“I feel it’s an inground for illegals com-
ing into the city,” she said.
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.orgGainesville becomes first Florida ‘Welcoming City’CITY COMMISSION“In the pediatric hospital, 
when I do my roar as the 
Beast and a little boy does the 
roar back, or when a little 
girl is giving me the stink-eye 
because I’m yelling at Belle to 
come down for dinner, that’s 
the best stuff.”
John Mayfield
First-year UF medical studentThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The sensationalism of Trump is concerning
I don’t like Donald Trump. It’s pretty easy 
not to; the guy is a xenophobic, classist egomaniac. The only thing more obscene 
than the things he says is the height of 
his wispy, golden mane — which I’m 
convinced grows in direct proportion to the amount of attention he receives. Yet what 
scares me the most about Trump isn’t his call 
to ban Muslims from entering the U.S., nor is it his proposed $8 billion wall along the border of Mexico: It’s his sensationalism and what it means for the future of American politics.
American political discourse has regressed signifi-
cantly over time. I’ve only been alive for five elections, but it seems with each one the speeches get simpler, the slogans get punchier and complex issues — which 
require time and delicacy to discuss — get boiled down 
to quick soundbites. 
Politicians nowadays spend just as much time de-
scribing their humble upbringing or religious values as they do elaborating on what they actually plan to do 
once elected. True, charisma and “likeability” have al-
ways been key characteristics of a presidential candi-date. Yet the relative importance of those characteristics in determining a candidate’s success has grown to the 
point where the average debate response holds about as 
much depth as the long-answer portion of a Miss USA pageant.
Despite the increasingly superficial nature of poli-
tics, I still expected some level of tact when it came to 
how candidates spoke and conducted themselves dur-
ing their campaigns. Then came Trump. Trump, who referred to Planned Parenthood buildings as “abortion factories.” Trump, who dismissed Latin American re-
porter Jorge Ramos with, “You haven’t been called. 
Go back to Univision.” Trump, whose proposed solu-tion for the Islamic State group in Syria is to “bomb the s--- out of them.” It’s bad enough a candidate who speaks this way exists at 
all, but the fact that Trump is the Republican 
frontrunner is downright terrifying.
Don’t get me wrong: I know Trump isn’t 
the first politician to say ridiculous things. We 
all remember Mitt Romney’s casual dismissal 
of the poor with his “47 percent” comment in 2012, or Sarah Palin’s comment that resulted in a parody of her saying “I can see Russia 
from my house” in 2008. The difference is both were 
very clearly missteps that ultimately hurt the campaign 
of the person saying them. Trump, in contrast, is pur-posefully making outrageous remarks — and being re-warded for it.
The content of these remarks is often ignorant and 
hateful, but I would have an easier time stomaching it if he at least presented it with the eloquence I expect from a presidential candidate. Instead, he spews sensational garbage that many Americans perceive as “candor” or 
“authenticity.” In reality, it’s quite the opposite. It’s an 
attention-grabbing ploy Trump knows will sate Ameri-ca’s thirst for entertainment and originality in the tired world of politics, and it’s quickly reducing the presiden-
tial race into a dog and pony show.
It’s only to be expected, considering his background 
in reality television. Donald Trump is running for presi-
dent, the leadership role with the highest level of execu-tive power and responsibility, and he’s treating it like a 
season of “The Apprentice.” If this is the kind of irrev-
erent behavior we accept and support from candidates now, what hope is there for the future? At this rate, Kanye West in 2020 doesn’t seem so crazy after all.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics senior. Her col-
umn appears on Fridays.A special edition of …
Darts & Laurels
Today, in lieu of the traditional Friday Darts & Laurels, we 
at the Alligator would like to share an editorial we planned to run Monday. But in light of a recent article, Darts & Laurels 
seemed a more appropriate platform.
Guess what? We’re moving! And we’re sorry you didn’t 
hear it from us first. 
On Thursday, the front page of The Gainesville Sun an-
nounced that our building on 1105 W. University Ave. had 
been sold. Yes, our building has been sold. And yes, the sale is news — news The Gainesville Sun was right to report on.
But the reporter did not make any attempt to reach out 
to the student staff at our paper, an embarrassing oversight 
in an article discussing the past and future of our building. 
The Gainesville Sun was, for many of the students on staff, our first internship and our first step into professional jour-nalism. Consequently, we are disappointed our former col-
leagues would be so irresponsible in their reporting to ne-
glect the voice of the people this decision affects the most.
With that, a Dart goes to The Gainesville Sun for ne-
glectful reporting and disrespect to our staff, our alumni and our readership. 
This is not the end of the Alligator, as many have been led 
to believe. Instead, it’s the bittersweet beginning of a new chapter in the paper’s history as we prepare to begin publish-ing from a new location on Southwest 13th Street on May 9.
The sale of our building reflects our industry as a whole: 
The Miami Herald sold its building for $236 million in 2011, The Tampa Bay Times has had its downtown Tampa loca-
tion listed since January 2015 and The Washington Post sold 
its headquarters in 2014. While our dilapidated ex-fraterni-ty house, with bamboo wallpaper and the occasional rat, doesn’t have quite the same prestige or neighborhood, it car-ries the same amount of memories and promise.
But like our professional colleagues, the sale of the build-
ing is not a sign of weakness. It’s a sign of evolution and growth as we adapt to a changing industry and a changing readership. It means our staff will have the financial support 
to ensure this paper’s survival and prosperity for generations 
of student journalists to come.
Saying goodbye to our building will be like saying good-
bye to a first car. It’s old, barely holding itself together with shaky wires and silly memories. But saying goodbye brings the promise of a better future — in our case, a future with stronger WiFi, better technology and the capability to pro-duce bigger and better content for the University of Florida 
and Gainesville.
There are several milestones in Alligator history: our first 
publication in 1906, independence from the university in 
1973 and moving to 1105 W. University Ave. in 1982. And in 
May 2016, there will be another one: moving to a new loca-
tion on Southwest 13th Street.
As we coordinate with the professional day staff, there are 
still aspects unknown to us, the students, about our move. But, through every milestone and change, one thing has and 
will remain consistent: The paper has been a source of persis-
tent and passionate journalism, for students and by students.
And thus, a Laurel goes to our staff and our readership, 
the people who have always supported and will continue to 
support our publication and our pursuit of journalism.
A building does not make this paper. The people do.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Namwan 
Leavell
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Today we have a new 
president.
I knew it would hap-
pen, yet I was shocked all the same.
The Impact Party all but 
swept the election. At the fore-
front of this great tidal wave of 
votes rode our new president, Susan Webster.
She’s come a long way from where she 
was a year ago, sulking next to Swamp 
Party’s defeated presidential candidate 
Joey Michaels. Where Michaels failed, Webster succeeded. Now Webster, whose Facebook likes include Jeb Bush and the 
British Monarchy, is going to lead us back 
to business as usual. Joselin Padron-Ra-sines and her party fought hard solely to give us a choice; a year later, we used this opportunity of choice to bring our trial run 
with true democracy to an end.
Earlier this week I wrote, hoping 
against hope, that Impact’s counter-revo-
lution could be avoided or even reversed 
with this election. These hopes are dead. 
In one, perhaps even two election cycles, Suz Webs and her party will exterminate whatever murmurs of opposition remain in the Senate chambers while UF’s brief 
existence under a multi-party system fades 
back into the night.
Who is responsible?I don’t blame Susan. Even though 
clearly I disdain her and everything she represents, at the end of the day she is a fellow student, a dedicated volunteer and ultimately a ﬁ  gurehead who’s prob-ably been groomed for this position since 
the minute she learned to walk. Nor do 
I blame Impact, which is not much more than a hastily assembled collection of symbols and non-controversial platforms. 
Their logo appears to be looted from the 
UF Alumni Association; the most popular item on their agenda is the proliferation of Chick-ﬁ  l-A breakfast. What sort of mon-ster would oppose that?
Whatever. All of that — the platform, 
the kitschy T-shirts, the omnipresent rep-resentatives stationed through-out campus — all of it is a per-formance. It is a mask behind 
which lies The System. Now, 
I’ve argued with people about this all week: The System exists. They do not hide it well; proof 
exists and is accessible to any-
one with an Internet connection and a halfway decent command 
of the English language.
Here is where I place blame: not on 
Susan, not on Impact and not even on The System. I lay blame on us — we, the Student Body they need to legitimize their power. I’ve been writing about Stu-
dent Government for a long time, and I’ve 
always believed if only everyone knew about The System and its sickening legacy, it would be ﬁ  nished forever. Now I realize my naiveté — plenty of us know. Hell, one 
of them came forward Monday night and 
spilled her guts. The System’s success is not due to a lack of information — we just can’t be bothered to give a shit. Fool me 
once, shame on you. Fool me twice…
As the elections results came in, my 
friends and I joked about going to exile at 
Florida State University, in a city where The System graduates hold their ﬁ  ngers on 
the pulse of real power. At that point, I 
really did want to give up altogether and perhaps move to Germany, where the people appreciate democratic rule. But 
at the thought of Germany I remembered 
one conversation I had with my professor, a teacher of German history. It was one of our many talks about the state of the world (bleak). I was visibly distressed; as 
a means of comfort, he taught me that in-
domitable slogan of the German Left: Der Kampf geht weiter, “The struggle goes on.”
I don’t know about you, but I take com-
fort in that. Nothing is ﬁ  nal. Here’s hop-ing the Webster administration serves us well; in the meantime, I’m expecting lots of Chick-ﬁ  l-A.
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Fridays.Suz Webz is indeed presidentColumn
What frustrates a stu-dent enough to deface university property? 
Organic chemistry, 
apparently.
For the unfamiliar, organic 
chemistry, or orgo, is the study 
of carbon-containing molecules 
and their chemistry — the end-less means and manners through which molecules are broken, transformed, reconﬁ  gured and recreated. 
These molecules are enormously im-
portant industrially and biologically, from powering and lubricating machinery to brushing and rinsing your teeth. 
It’s also become a bit of a cliche to 
say carbon is the foundation of all life on earth, but cliches are nothing if not reli-ably truthful.
So why would a student want to “f--- 
orgo”?
At least, this is what was spray-painted 
last weekend on the side of Keene-Flint Hall — in addition to the slightly more 
general desire to “f--- chem.”
Presumably, this individual was not 
trying to swipe right on orgo.  
The introductory courses to organic 
chemistry are notorious for containing some of the most challenging material 
presented to undergraduate students at this stage of their education. And this isn’t exclusive to UF. The phrase “I’m taking 
orgo this semester” is widely recognized 
as a universal cry for sympathy from Gainesville to Berkeley, California.
Organic chemistry is required for most 
pre-health occupations, which is why the 
introductory courses to organic chemistry 
are referred to as “weed-out courses.”
Now, I’m not going to try to understand 
the mind of an individual who spends his 
or her time creating decidedly mediocre 
grafﬁ  ti — I’m too busy trying to pass orgo 2 myself — but if I had to guess, I’m going to say this person was not happy about feeling stuck in a weed-out course.
There was an excellent letter to the edi-
tor published Tuesday in the Alligator that addressed this incident and, in-directly, the idea of a weed-out course. First and foremost, what 
you study in college is your 
choice. For the most part, you have to contend with the impli-cations that follow.
I recommend anyone who 
hasn’t read that letter to scour the internet or Library West’s 
third ﬂ  oor for a transcript. The letter goes on to say the implications of taking an 
advanced science course in a ﬁ  rst-world 
country at a top-tier public research uni-versity can’t ever be that bad.
I’d also like to add to the quite truth-
ful arguments against critics of supposed weed-out courses.
Organic chemistry is a difﬁ  cult subject; 
I’ve heard more than one professor com-pare the number and uses of its terminol-
ogy to a second language. 
Much of the material won’t be useful 
for wherever you go in life, but a course 
can’t be designed with a single student 
in mind. Rather, it must be for an entire 
class. And hell, to the aspiring grafﬁ  ti art-ist in question, you’re probably not old enough to legally drink; do you know where your life is headed?
No course, orgo included, is deliber-
ately designed to fail students or prevent them from reaching their long-term goals. Orgo isn’t meant to weed out anyone 
without the speciﬁ  c type of intelligence 
or convictions to continue the premedi-cal, pre-pharmaceutical or pre-physician assisting tracks — that’s just a side effect. 
It’s simply designed to prepare every 
student in the class to move forward with his or her coursework and degrees, as is true for any other supposed weed-out course. In other words, it’s like any other 
class a student may take: The introduc-
tions to organic chemistry exist to teach students and to allow them to learn above all else.
Neel Bapatla is a UF English Sopho-
more. His column appears on Fridays.Graﬃ   ti, orgo and weed-out class theoryColumnWhile on a rooftop in Iowa at the 
wedding of one of my editors, I decided to get an Alligator tattoo.
Others at the wedding — a re-
union of former Alligator staff — 
already had the recognizable serif “a” etched into their skin, and I wanted one too.
You see, the Alligator, well, it changed 
our lives.
With news breaking of the impending sale 
of this dingy, vine-covered, squeaky-carpet-ed building on West University Avenue, all of us who worked there are a bit worked up.
We’re apart now, in New York City at 
People.com or Time Magazine; in Charlotte, North Carolina, at the city magazine there; in Houston at the university’s journalism de-
partment; in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, or Galena, 
Illinois, writing about corn or other Iowan 
and Illinoisan things for their newspapers; or working for a Tallahassee congresswoman in Washington, D.C.
The band of us, writers, editors and pho-tographers from the early 2010s, we might not see each other every day or talk most months, but this building, this space that’s about to be turned into apartments, it al-ways brings us back to each other.
Way back when Tim Tebow 
was my roommate’s lab partner and he used to come to our dorm room in Beaty Towers, put his foot on my bed and play Madden on my room-mate’s Xbox (as himself, naturally), I was a silly 18-year-old, hiding vodka bottles in my 
ceiling on the sixth ﬂ  oor, destined for law 
school.
That semester, my ﬁ  rst at UF, I nearly 
failed economics, I dropped chemistry and 
I must have spent a collective 72 hours at 
TutoringZone trying to save my life from the 
shambles it had become. I had never known failure before! This was so new, so terrible! I didn’t belong at UF! I had made a mistake!
A new friend who lived six ﬂ  oors higher in Beaty encouraged me to pull my life together and go to the Al-ligator’s open house that following semester. I brought along an un-published story about something unimportant, but that editor — the one who got married in Iowa a few years later — took a chance on me.
From there I became a contrib-
uting writer and, when she surprised me one morning under my byline, a staff writer. I took on the role of metro editor the follow-
ing semester along with that same friend in 
Beaty Towers and then moved on to opin-ions editor, where I wrote the most hilari-ous Darts and Laurels (and sex columns) this 
newspaper has ever seen.
It goes without saying that I never went 
to law school. I started working at magazines 
and communications ofﬁ  ces, as most of us did.
The Alligator, I tell you, this building changed my life.
When I come back to visit Gainesville, I’ll 
undoubtedly make a trip to 1105 W. Univer-sity Ave., as we all do. Only next time, it won’t be the Alligator anymore. It’ll be some sophomore named Karen’s apartment, who never knew there used to be a newsroom where she eats her Karma Cream.
I sound like an old, wise adult with re-
sponsibilities, a dog and a full-time job when I say it, but the connections you make here, Gators, whether they be to people, to places or to memories, they matter.
Even when you’re 26 and old and you 
live more than six ﬂ  oors away from your best friend, remember that night you stirred a drink with a stapler inside the newsroom 
that saved your life.
And if all else fails, just get a tattoo.
Jared Misner was an Alligator staff mem-
ber from 2009 until 2011. He now lives in Charlotte, N.C., where he writes for Charlotte 
Magazine. 
To the Alligator's 1105 W. University Ave. building, with love and memoriesGuest column
Jared Misner
Speaking Out
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.org
Neel Bapatla
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016
LB Hannahs, the 31-year-old director of UF LGBT Affairs, speaks at 
the grand opening of the new location of the Rainbow Suite in the Reitz Union. Hannahs explained the theme of the event by saying, “Carnival people were considered oddities, strange or something to be gawked at. It’s a ﬁ  tting metaphor for queerness and oddity. ” Now, however, the LGBT community can embrace their different-ness in this space, Hannahs said.LEFT:
Macarena Baigorria, a 23-year-
old UF mechanical engineering graduate student, spins a pride wheel for the chance to win an LGBT tumbler. 
BELOW:
UF women’s studies junior Ga-briella Larios (left), 20, promotes the weekly event Lesbians on the Lawn by decorating a ﬂ  ag that will hang on the wall of the LGBT Affairs ofﬁ  ce. The group’s reinstated meetups, which occur every Friday at noon on the Plaza of the Americas, create a sense of community for LGBT identiﬁ  ers, Larios said.
‘Queerness and oddity’
UF biochemistry and molecular biology senior Michael Chiang (left), 21, plays a game of Twister with T ehQuin Forbes, a 
21-year-old UF sociology senior. The two attended the grand opening of the LGBT Affairs office, which was decorated like a carnival. “I think it gives a lot of students not only the resources to feel at home but also to learn about a culture that they may not be a part of, ” said Forbes of the new place.
Photos by Emma Green / Alligator StaffFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Kristen Solorzano
Alligator Contributing Writer
To give the class of 2020 a feel for 
UF, a weekly video will be released 
showing a student leader.
The Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce and 
the New Student and Family Pro-
grams Division have partnered with 
UF Social Media to make the videos. The ﬁ  rst video, released Tuesday, showed Michael Cizek, UF’s Mr. Two Bits. Cizek will host the show, “Tandem Two Bits,” while riding a two-person bicycle every Tuesday.
To make the videos while biking, 
the 20-year-old said he attaches cam-
eras to his handlebars and helmet.
“The camera on the handlebars 
faces me, while the one on my head faces the interviewee,” the UF ﬁ  -
nance sophomore said.
He said golf carts protect the bik-
ers while they record.
“It makes for an interesting traf-
ﬁ  c jam: two golf carts and a tandem bike,” he said. “Who would have guessed?”
Cizek said he thought of the idea 
after buying a tandem bike, which has two seats, in 2014.
Lauren Schuhle, a UF mechanical 
engineering senior, said she thinks the videos should have been done sooner.
“It’s a great way to represent the 
Student Body,” the 22-year-old said. “It’s unexpected and funny. I hope the incoming class of 2020 appreci-ates it like I do.”  UF’s Mr. Two Bits makes 
videos for class of 2020
STUDENTS WILL LEARN ABOUT 
AGRICULTURE, LIFE SCIENCES.
By Mary Kate Cobb    
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s College of Agricultural and Life Sci-
ences is starting a program for high-school 
students this Summer.
The Florida Youth Institute will allow incoming juniors and seniors to do hands-
on activities relating to life science, agri-
culture and natural resource disciplines, said Charlotte Emerson, the director of stu-dent development and recruitment for the college. The details for the program, which 
will be held from July 10 to July 15, are 
still being ﬁ  nalized.
The program, which will take up to 25 
students, will cost $350, she said. Florida residents will be given preference, and par-
ticipants will stay in Hume Hall.
“The main purpose is to immerse stu-
dents to issues and disciplines in agricul-
ture and life sciences and how it relates to the community, Florida and globally,” 
Emerson said.
On the last night of the program, there 
will be a banquet held for all students with 
two guest lecturers: Adam Putnam, the Florida commissioner of agriculture, and 
Elaine Turner, the dean of the College of 
Agricultural and Life Sciences.
Turner said she hopes high-school stu-
dents realize agriculture and life sciences affect many aspects of their lives.
“It relates to the food choices they make 
every day; it relates to the environmental practices that they use,” she said.  UF starts science summer program for high-school students
MYSTIC PERFORMERS
Aiden Humphries, left, an 18-year-old Santa Fe College material science and engineering 
freshman, and Stetson Grace, a 22-year-old Santa Fe College business management stu-dent, rehearse “Lay Me Down” by Dirty Heads in front of Mystic Smoke Shop and Hookah Lounge on Thursday afternoon. On Saturday, the smoke shop will host a reggae night featuring live music starting at 11 p.m. 
Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
For rent - 8/15/2016 to 8/14/2017. Private owner has 4 bedroom/4 private bathrooms, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer on bus route 1 mile from UF. ONE YEAR LEASE. $375/mo/room Call 352-586-6468    3-9-16-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
MR CHEAP ROOMClose to campus $180/mo.
Call Rob 375-8606                 2-25-5-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any  dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363  Ext.300N    2-19-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-121For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 2For Rent
unfurnished7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199996 Cadillac Deville $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp pro-gram. For a complete listing of positions visit www.oakhall.org/summercamp. Interview process begins February 20.   2-19-16-11-14
ACROSS
1 Fry
6 Kung __ chicken9 Market Fresh
sandwich andsalad seller
14 Time of old
Rome
15 Unevenly
distributed, in away
17 Brought on18 Write-off19 Charming21 D.C.’s 
Walter __National MilitaryMedical Center
22 Mennen lotion23 Govt. mtge.
insurer
26 One hoping to
provide manyhappy returns?
28 Hammer 
number
30 Big name i n
hairstyling
32 Hyperbola part33 Sudden stream35 Pull on36 Flee38 Adjudicates40 Maple syrup
target
41 Nearl y
43 Take badly?45 Taoist
complement
46 Uncommitted48 Farrow of film49 Ottoman title
50 Tack on
51 “A Death in the
Family” author
53 Relative of Rex55 Energetic and
enthusiastic
59 Run up the scor e
on
62 Place for a Char-
Broil
63 Removes
restrictions on, a s
funds
64 Hole __
65 Third-longest
African river
66 Uncertain no.
67 HandlesDOWN
1 “Do the Right
Thing” pizzeria
2 From the top
3 Suspected of
misdeeds
4 Certain student5 Hams6 First-serve figs.7 Island receptio n
8 Spent9 If nothing else
10 Depend11 Pal12 Start of an
engagement?
13 ’60s protest org.16 Big bag carrier20 Modify to fit23 State Department
neighborhood ...
and what 3-, 8-
and 29-Down al l
have?
24 Philly trademark25 “They that have
done this deedare honourable”
speaker
26 Changing place
27 Examined closely
29 Psychedelic rock
classic of 1967
31 Seek redress34 Brazilian-themed
Vegas hotel, with
“The”
37 Tsk relative
39 Nebula Award
genre
42 One may begin
with “In a world ... ”
44 U-shaped, more
or les s
47 Longhorn rival
52 Adlai’s running
mate54 1997 Elton
dedicatee
55 “Spenser: For __”
56 Annoyance
57 Hessian article
58 Achieves59 Fifth-century
conqueror
60 Athlete’s wear ,
for short
61 It increases
during plantgrowth: Abbr.
By Steven J. St. John
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□ANSW□R□□O□□R□□□O□S□□□□□□□ □R□□□AS□□DA□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□
□□□□A□□□□□□□□□□□□□D□□□□□C□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□□
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
HIRING 20 DRIVERS
JOB FAIR THIS FRIDAY
Domino's 3311 W. Universtiy Ave. 2-4 p.m. 
Instant Interviews.     2-19-16-3-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery DriversClosing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Janitorial cleaner needed to service ar-
eas in morriston,williston,jonesville,and Gainesville... needs reliable transportation...weekly pay....call 352-214-0868 if interested   2-23-16-5-14
Servers Needed...Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St      2-24-16-5-14
Server needed for busy Lisa's Corner Cafe. Some mornings & afternoons, 4-5 shifts/week. No nights. Exp pref. Own transporation. Energetic & depend-able. Train now. Server rate + tips ~$13-17/hr. Apply 1-2pm 125 NW 23rd Ave Ste #9.    2-25-16-5-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    2-19-1-14
ATTN: Drivers- $2K Sign-On Bonus$$ RECENT PAY INCREASE $$Make Over $60,000 your first year!Newer KW T660 and T680'sCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com           2-19-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
AIRLINES need Aircraft Dispatchers -Grads work with airlines, airports, and others -Get certified in just 12 weeks with FAA approved training. Call AIM 888-242-2649    2-19-1-15
**DRIVER TRAINEES****NEEDED NOW**850-983-1400    2-19-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.
Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-9-16-10-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    2-19-1-1614 Help Wanted 16 Health Services
 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida women's basketball 
team defeated Vanderbilt on Thursday night. Read the story on pg. 15.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF lacrosse defeats Wales National T eam
The Florida lacrosse team beat the Wales National T eam 16-5 in an 
exhibition match on Thursday in Gainesville.Ray Boone
Sports Writer
For the ﬁ  rst and only time this year, the 
Florida men’s golf team will compete on their 
home course. 
The ﬁ  fth-ranked Gators are set to host the 
38th annual SunTrust Gator Invitational this Saturday and Sunday at the Mark Bostick Golf Course.
The Gators will be competing against 13 
other teams during the two-day, 54-hole event, 
including No. 3 Florida State, No. 18 Vander-
bilt and No. 30 South Florida, which took home the trophy last year while Florida ﬁ  n-ished fourth. UF has been on a roll as of late, winning its 
last event by a tournament-record 23 shots at the Sea Best Invitational on Feb. 2. 
The Gators will need to keep up their hot 
play in order to compete in an event they haven’t won since 2011. Keeping a sharp focus will be key.
“We deﬁ  nitely want to win. That’s our goal 
this week,” freshman golfer Jorge Garcia said 
before Thursday’s practice round. “But I think 
we’re more focused on the preparation and what we’re going to do to be able to give our-selves a chance on Sunday.”
Head coach J.C. Deacon said he wasn’t too 
happy with the team’s attitude leading up to Wednesday. However, he said the team had a group meeting and got things sorted out.
“It just felt like the effort and the sharpness 
of our attitude dipped a little bit. Maybe just a little bit too much celebration or whatever from their win,” Deacon said. “We’ve gotta 
get back to business. There’s some really great Focus is key for UF men's golf entering SunTrust Gator Invitational
SEE MEN'S GOLF,  PAGE 14JUST SOME HACK
Change is in the ocean breeze at Day-
tona.
NASCAR’s top teams and drivers 
kick off their seasons on Sunday in the Daytona 500, the biggest event on the 
schedule and a race that has deﬁ  ned careers and cemented legacies of the sport’s greatest ﬁ  gures.
But this year is different.Sunday isn’t just the Daytona 500 — it’s the 
beginning of a transitional year for NASCAR, one that will deﬁ  ne and determine its future for better or worse.
First, the drivers.
Four-time champion Jeff Gordon, arguably 
the most successful and recognizable driver in 
the modern era, has left the famous No. 24 car and moved to the television booth.
Tony Stewart, a three-time champion in his 
ﬁ  nal season before retirement, is out indeﬁ  -nitely with a broken vertebrae and will likely miss a large chunk of the year, if he returns at all.
Aside from Dale Earnhardt Jr., they have 
been the two most popular drivers for well over a decade, and many fans of Gordon and Stewart will be left to either pick a new driver to root for or choose to no longer watch.
It’s a similar situation to what golf went 
through a few years ago, when Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson struggled to contend regu-larly before phenoms like Jordan Spieth and 
Rory McIlroy emerged to breathe life back into 
the sport.
But NASCAR is still searching for its future 
star.
Many hope it will be Chase Elliott, the NASCAR entering 
transitional season
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14THE FRESHMAN IS UF'S 
SECOND-LEADING SCORER.
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
It doesn't take long for KeVaughn Al-
len to find his shooting stroke. 
“He’s like a microwave,” redshirt se-
nior forward Dorian Finney-Smith said. 
“He gets a couple in, he’s going to start hitting.”
The freshman shot 7-of-13 from the 
field in Tuesday’s road win over Georgia, including 4-of-9 from three-point range, and finished with a game-high 19 points.
At a point in the season when Florida 
(17-9, 8-5 Southeastern Conference) is 
struggling to find any flow on offense, 
Allen has kept the Gators afloat. 
He has impressed Florida's coaches 
all season while scoring 11.9 points per 
game, second only to redshirt senior 
Dorian Finney-Smith, but coach Mike White said Allen has come on even stron-ger over the past six or seven weeks.
Against the Bulldogs, White said Allen 
was fantastic, and that he sees his confi-dence growing game by game.
“I haven’t said anything different late-
ly. It’s all KeVaughn,” White said. 
“If there’s one thing we say to him, if 
there’s one word, if you ask KeVaughn right now, 'what does the staff, what do your teammates tell you every single day?' He would say aggressive. To be ag-
gressive.”
Since the Gators beat then-No. 9 West 
Virginia on Jan. 30, UF’s offense has hit 
a lull. 
In the five games since, in which Flor-
ida is 3-2, the team has shot 40.1 percent from the field, 25.2 percent from beyond the arc and 67.7 percent from the free-throw line.
Over that same span, Allen has been 
near the top of the team’s averages, shooting 42.2 percent from the field, 32 percent from three, 72.2 percent from Allen carrying struggling Florida oﬀ  ense
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
KeVaughn Allen takes a shot during Florida's 61-55 loss to Alabama on Feb. 13 in 
the O'Connell Center. 
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack24
Florida took fourth place last yearteams coming in town this weekend. 
Just wanna make sure our focus is at an all-time high.” 
UF will boast a fearsome lineup 
come Saturday. In addition to Gar-
cia, the first four of the lineup will 
feature star freshman Sam Horsfield, sophomore Alejandro Tosti and ju-nior Ryan Orr. Horsfield, the 33rd-ranked amateur golfer in the world, was recently named to the Ben Ho-gan Award Watch List and earned Southeastern Conference Golfer of the Week honors following his indi-vidual title at the Sea Best.
Florida’s fifth spot has been up 
in the air. However, after firing a 3-under 67 during one of the team’s practice rounds, redshirt junior A.J. 
Crouch will get the chance to prove 
himself as the fifth and final member of the team’s lineup. 
“We put the spot on the line, and 
he went out and earned it,” Deacon said of Crouch. “Very happy for him and glad that some work’s paid off.”
However, Deacon said the team 
needs all 11 golfers focused and on 
the same page.With family and friends in town, 
there will be added distractions and 
high expectations for the team. 
 “There (are) some distractions, 
so it’s an opportunity for us to see how we can handle that kind of 
stuff,” Deacon said.
“There’s some great teams here 
this week, so if we don’t play our 
best, we can get blown out of the water. I know the guys’ focus is go-ing to be high, and we’ll be ready to go.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org20-year-old son of Hall-of-Famer Bill Elliott who has im-pressed in NASCAR’s lower series — he won an Xfinity 
series championship while still in high school — and is 
taking over Gordon’s No. 24 car.
Elliott is already off to a good start — he kicked off his 
rookie campaign by becoming the youngest-ever Day-tona 500 pole winner on Sunday.
Other hopeful successors include 22-year-old rookie 
Ryan Blaney, a multiple-time winner throughout NAS-CAR’s lower series who has a wealth of raw talent. There's also Kyle Larson, a 23-year-old entering his third 
season in the Cup who has already challenged for wins 
and is considered one of the best young drivers already in the Cup series.
NASCAR needs one of these three or another young 
gun to become relevant to help keep the sport relevant.
Second, the cars.NASCAR has implemented yet another new rules and 
aero package for the cars in 2016, designed to have less downforce on the cars in order to create more side-by-
side racing.
Since the Gen-6 car was introduced with great success 
in 2013, the quality of racing has declined progressively 
each year, mainly due to the limited amount of passing.
The lack of action on the track has led to a steady 
decline in television ratings and attendance at tracks, a particularly troubling trend considering that was the case while the Gordon and Stewart were still competing.
The sport needs this new rules package, which has 
the support of the drivers, to be successful to make the on-track product more exciting.
Lastly, as just mentioned, NASCAR’s tracks across 
the board have been dealing with significant declines in attendance, and many have torn down grandstands to more accurately meet ticket demands.
Many races that used to see 175,000 people in atten-
dance are now happy to get half that number.
Daytona International Speedway, the sport’s crown 
jewel, just completed a massive two-year renovation,  reducing grandstand capacity from 160,000 to just more than 100,000.
However, Daytona has also made state-of-the-art up-
grades to its facilities, which are now designed to better accommodate the modern fan in terms of interaction, WiFi, food, etc.
If effective, it could be the blueprint for other tracks to 
follow in order to get fans back in the seats.
All of these factors combine to make 2016 a cross-
roads year for NASCAR, and the sport’s future likely rides in the balance.
Graham Hack is a sports writer. Contact him at 
ghack@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @
graham_hack24.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Coach Mike White looks on from the sideline during UF's 77-72 
win over Ole Miss on Feb. 9 in the O'Connell Center. 
the charity stripe and averaging 
11.8 points per game. 
No, not numbers worthy of 
the Wayman Tisdale Award for national freshman of the year, but certainly worthy of the trust and confidence of his team-
mates and coaches.
“He did a great job stepping 
up and making tough shots,” 
Finney-Smith said of Allen's performance against Georgia. 
“Sometimes, he’ll turn down 
shots. He’ll turn down the easy one and shoot a pull-up or something like that, but he’s 
still learning. He’s getting bet-
ter throughout the year.”
Florida will hope to get an-
other productive game from Allen on Saturday when the 
Gators travel to Columbia, 
South Carolina, to face the Gamecocks (21-5, 8-5 SEC) at noon. 
South Carolina started the 
season 15-0, but has gone 6-5 since, dropping its last two games to Kentucky and Mis-souri. 
Michael Carrera leads the 
Gamecocks with 14.6 points per game, and the team aver-ages 29.5 free-throw attempts per contest. That's good for the 
second-most in the country. 
Florida has won seven 
straight meetings against Caro-
lina, including a 72-68 come-
back win last season capped off 
by two last-second Eli Carter free throws.
While White said he does 
consider Florida a “really good defensive team,” the Gators’ of-fense doesn’t have much room to get worse. 
“We have to find other ways 
to score, other than jacking a ton of threes. We have to turn turnovers into transition of-
fense and stay on the offensive 
glass,” White said. 
“We are what we are. We’re 
a good team, but we’re offen-sively challenged at times.” 
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg 13UF has won seven straight 
against South Carolina
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida men's golf coach J.C. Deacon speaks at a press conference at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.COLUMN,  from pg 13
AP Photo
Chase Elliot walks to an interview during NASCAR 
media day at Daytona International Speedway.
MEN'S GOLF,  from pg 13Horsfield is 33rd-ranked amateur in world
14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016
“He'll turn down the easy 
one and shoot a pull-up or 
something like that, but he's 
still learning. He's getting 
better throughout the year.”
Dorian Finney-Smith
Florida basketball playerCHRISTINAKI LED UF
WITH 22 POINTS.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
With 10.5 seconds left in 
Thursday night’s game against 
Vanderbilt, UF sophomore Dyan-dria Anderson went up for a de-fensive rebound. 
It didn’t matter if she came 
down with it. The Gators were already up by double figures, so 
there was nothing more than pride 
at stake. 
But pride turned out to be 
enough of a reason to fight for the 
ball, and Anderson forced a jump 
ball that went Florida’s way. 
The No. 22 Gators (20-6, 8-5 
Southeastern Conference) then 
ran out the clock and defeated Vanderbilt 79-67 in the O’Connell 
Center.
And while Anderson’s forced 
jump ball didn’t change the out-
come of the game, it represented exactly what did: Florida’s effort.
“I love the way we attacked,” 
head coach Amanda Butler said after the game. 
“They were being accountable 
for when we had letdowns, and I 
think it’s a reflection of great lead-
ership.”
The game started as well as it 
could have for Florida.
Redshirt senior sharpshooter 
Carlie Needles hit a three, junior Simone Westbrook followed it up 
with a three of her own and the Gators were off to a promising 6-0 start. Eventually, UF’s lead ballooned 
to as much as 11 in the first quar-ter. But at that point, it quickly be-gan to fade.
With one bucket at the be-
ginning of the second quarter, Vanderbilt (15-11, 4-9 SEC) tied the game. Another immediately followed, and suddenly Vandy 
had its first lead.
“Vanderbilt’s pattern is very, very clear,” Butler said. “They’ve 
been down, a lot, and they come right back at you.”
But trailing for the first time 
seemed to be just the prod Florida 
needed to get going again. For the 
rest of the first half, the Gators and Commodores traded baskets. 
And at the half, Florida carried 
a slim 42-40 lead. 
In the second half, while Flori-da’s depth helped by keeping the starters fresh, it was mainly the starters who did the heavy lifting.
Five Gators  — all starters 
— found themselves in double 
figures, with freshman Eleanna 
Christinaki leading the way with a career-high 22 points and junior Ronni Williams notching a dou-
ble-double. Haley Lorenzen added 
12 points, while Simone West-brook and Carlie Needles scored 
10 points apiece. 
Westbrook, Christinaki and Lo-
renzen were particularly influen-
tial in the win aside from the stat 
sheet, though, making both clutch 
and effort plays look easy.
With 8:32 left in the fourth 
quarter, Westbrook made a wide-
open three from NBA range. The 
ball ripped through the net, the 
crowd of 1,439 in the O’Connell Center went into a frenzy and the Gators had their biggest lead since the first quarter. 
Christinaki’s specialty, mean-
while, was altering momentum. 
With 4:31 left in the fourth, she 
let a three-pointer loose from the top of the key for a swish, giving Florida a nine-point lead that ig-
nited the bench. She followed up 
with a steal with under a minute 
left, leading to the possession that ultimately sealed the game for Florida. 
As for Lorenzen, her effort 
when diving for loose balls, swat-ting at passes and putting up dou-ble figures didn’t go unnoticed.
Like Anderson, her individual 
effort was a snapshot of the iden-
tity Florida has tried to establish 
all season long. 
“Coach always talks about mak-
ing plays, and there was a couple 
of times where I was getting tips, 
and you’re just hustling,” Loren-
zen said. 
“That’s just what we practice, 
and that’s just what Florida does.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Haley Lorenzen drives into the paint during Florida’s win over 
Vanderbilt on Thursday. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Carlie Needles (right) and Carla Batchelor celebrate after a play during Florida’s 79-67 win over Vanderbilt on Thursday night in the O’Connell Center. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Eleanna Christinaki goes airborne for a layup during UF’s win over Vanderbilt on Thursday.
Aggressiveness, effort get Gators past Vanderbilt16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
With a winning streak at 
stake, the Florida gymnastics 
team will need to show what it’s  
made of in the Show-Me State. 
Traveling to Columbia, Mis-
souri, the No. 2 Gators are poised to take on the No. 19 
Mizzou Tigers at the 13,611-ca-pacity Hearnes Center. 
“I think we’re gonna do ex-
actly how we do in practice,” sophomore Ericha Fassbender said. 
“Just go out there, have fun 
(and a lot of energy) and just 
kind of focus on us and just do 
our job.”
Tonight’s installment — set 
to commence at 7 — is only the 
17th between the two schools in 
the 44-year history of Florida’s gymnastics program.
UF has yet to slip up. Flaunt-
ing a perfect 16-0 record all-
time against the Tigers (5-6, 1-3 
Southeastern Conference), Flor-ida’s last encounter with their intraconference foe resulted in 
a 198.225-195.975 victory in the 
Gators’ sixth meet of the 2015 season. 
The Gators (5-1, 3-1 SEC) 
enter tonight’s meet fresh off of their fourth consecutive win over a top-10 opponent, having defeated then-No. 9 Arkansas at home last Friday. 
The win featured standout 
individual performances from freshman Alicia Boren and 
sophomore Alex McMurtry, two 
athletes who each clinched their third SEC weekly honors of the season. 
Boren and McMurtry’s Fresh-
man and Specialist of the Week titles mark the fifth time this season UF’s gymnasts have been commended in the conference’s 
weekly awards. 
Meanwhile, Mizzou has lan-
guished, sitting seventh out of 
eight teams in the SEC stand-
ings.
Most recently, the Tigers 
dropped a 196.050-194.675 re-
sult to last-place Kentucky.
They also lost four straight in 
a month-long stretch earlier this season, losing to three out-of-conference teams. 
However, meets aren’t won 
on paper.
Regardless of past perfor-
mance, the Tigers are capable of a pulling off an unexpected win.
In its biggest victory of the 
season, Mizzou upset then-No. 9 Georgia 195.800-195.350, the same Bulldogs that upended Florida in the Gators’ only de-feat of the year. 
Additionally, they boast a 
freshman duo that’s poised to make noise for years to come.
Britney Ward — the 2013 Ju-
nior Olympics National Level 10 beam champion — has won the conference’s Specialist and Freshman of the Week awards one time each. Morgan Porter 
— another Level 10 competitor 
and the 2014 Missouri State and Region IV vault and bars title-holder — owns Missouri’s top 
all-around score of the season. 
Records aside, the Tigers 
command respect, and for Flor-
ida, they present another ob-stacle in the road to a strong 
regular-season finish. 
But with another week of 
practice under their belts, the 
Gators are confident in their 
ability to come away with a win 
on the road. 
“Going into this away meet 
against another SEC school is gonna be a good competition,” 
senior Bridgette Caquatto said. 
“We’re hoping for a good 
score, and just going out there 
and keeping the team energy 
alive while we’re (not in) the 
O’Dome. We’re gonna work on our team energy and just having solid routines.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgGymnastics hits road to face Missouri
UF has never lost to the Tigers
CAELEB DRESSEL AND KAHLIA WARNER 
EARNED VICTORIES ON DAY THREE OF 
THE FIVE-DAY COMPETITION.
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
Sophomore Caeleb Dressel and senior Kahlia Warner 
have been the two most consistent competitors for UF’s 
swimming and diving teams through the ﬁ  rst three days 
of the Southeastern Conference championship meet. 
Dressel, who brought the national spotlight upon 
himself Wednesday by breaking multiple records in the 
50-yard freestyle, earned his fourth overall victory of the SEC meet Thursday evening. Warner, who captured her ﬁ  rst victory on Tuesday in the 1-meter diving competi-tion, continued her perfect week in Columbia, Missouri, by capturing her second overall victory in the 3-meter dive. 
Heading into the Day 3 events, the men’s team need-
ed another consistent performance to maintain its overall lead over the nine other SEC teams. 
With two total podium ﬁ  nishes — one of which was 
a ﬁ  rst-place ﬁ  nish — in their three events Thursday eve-ning, the Gators sustained their consistency.
Dressel’s 44.80-second time in the 100-yard butterﬂ  y 
was good enough to land the No. 5-ranked UF men’s team their ﬁ  rst and only victory of the evening, besting LSU’s Logan Rysemus by 0.79 seconds. 
In the 400-yard individual medley, sophomore Mark 
Szaranek, who trailed the leaders by nearly three sec-onds at one point, rallied at the end to ﬁ  nish second with a time of 3:41.88, 1.55 seconds behind Georgia’s Jay Lith-erland.
After three days of competition, the Gators have 723 
points. That score is strong enough to maintain their lead over No. 6 Auburn by 54. 
With zero victories and only one podium ﬁ  nish 
in the ﬁ  rst six swimming events of the SEC meet, the No. 9-ranked women’s team desperately needed to ﬁ  nd some success in the pool on Thursday. But success, once again, eluded them.
Despite Warner’s strong performance on the diving 
boards, the team’s swimmers struggled to ﬁ  nd momen-tum on Thursday. In their three races, the women’s team captured no victories and zero podium ﬁ  nishes. 
Sophomore Amelia Maughan gave the women’s team 
their highest racing ﬁ  nish, placing fourth in the 200-yard freestyle. 
Senior Natalie Hinds, who has been the team’s top 
racer all season, has struggled to ﬁ  nd her stride at the SEC meet. With a ﬁ  fth-place ﬁ  nish in the 100-yard but-terﬂ  y, the Midland, Texas, native has yet to win a race or get to the podium in any of her individual events in this year’s conference meet. 
With two days remaining, the women’s team cur-
rently sits fourth in the overall standings with 426 total points, 231.5 points behind No. 5 Texas A&M, the overall leader. 
Day 4 of the SEC championship meet begins today at 
10 a.m.
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.orgMen’s swimming and diving in ﬁ  rst, 
women in fourth at SEC Championships“Going into this away meet at 
against another SEC school is 
gonna be a good competition.”
Bridgette Caquatto 
UF gymnastINSIDE
With an influx of impressive freshmen, Florida’s baseball team boasts more 
than just a talented set of upperclassmen. Read the story on page 20.
ONLINE
Visit alligatorSports.org for complete coverage of Florida’s opening weekend. OPENINGDAY
PITCH
PERFECT
PITCH
PERFECT
CATCHER: MIKE RIVERA
Rivera is arguably Florida’s best 
defensive catcher. An SEC All-Freshman team member a year ago, he caught 14 runners attempting to steal a base and committed just one 
error in the ﬁ  eld.PITCHER: LOGAN SHORE
Florida’s Friday-night guy for the 
last year and a half, Shore will once again be the Gators’ opening-night 
starter. He boasts an 18-10 record on 
the mound with a career 2.47 ERA.OPENINGDAY
Editor Ian Cohen   Photo for Cover Illustration Javier Fernandez
Alligator, Friday, February 19, 2016
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
A.J. Puk has a bruise on his left elbow.The spot marks where fellow teammate and room-
mate Ryan Larson ripped a line drive back at Puk during 
one scrimmage this spring.
“We call him the ‘roommate killer’ because every sin-
gle time he faces one of (his) roommates, it seems like 
it’s a knock,” Puk said. “But he deﬁ  nitely always has my 
number for some reason.”
Larson is one of the rare Florida hitters that can con-
sistently square up UF’s No. 2 starting pitcher.
Yes, Puk is slotted as the Gators’ Saturday starter be-
hind frontline pitcher Logan Shore. 
But he’s not a No. 2 talent.
In fact, the 6-foot-7 lefty hurler’s name has been 
tossed around in rankings as the potential No. 1 overall pick in this summer’s MLB Draft.
Puk, along with Shore and the rest of the pitching 
staff, is the main reason Florida is the consensus No. 1 team in every major preseason poll leading up to to-night’s season opener against Florida Gulf Coast at McK-ethan Stadium at 7.
And he’s embracing all the expectations.“This year we’ve got a lot of good players back,” Puk 
said, “and a personal goal (of mine is to) just go out there each and every day I take the mound and just give 
my team the best opportunity to win.”
      
Not many teams have two potential ﬁ  rst-round draft 
picks on its pitching staff.
Even fewer can say they boast the potential No. 1 
overall pick as its No. 2 starter.
As far as deciding who gets the ball on Friday nights, 
it’s a good problem for coach Kevin O’Sullivan to have.
“If you ask me on any given year could A.J. be a No. 
1? Yeah, no problem,” he said. “I’d lose no sleep.”
While Puk still has a full season ahead of him, the 
hype surrounding him is justiﬁ  ed.
In his freshman season, he posted a 3.19 ERA and 
struck out more than a batter per inning.
And though his sophomore season was more akin to 
a roller-coaster ride, Puk ﬁ  nished on a high note.
Through his ﬁ  rst nine appearances in 2015, the Ce-
dar Rapids, Iowa, native’s ERA sat at an abysmal 5.87 through 38.1 innings. Then on April 12, he was arrested 
along with teammate Kirby Snead for trespassing on a construction site and attempting to climb a crane.
But following the arrest and a subsequent suspension 
from the team, Puk cemented himself as a ﬁ  xture in the 
rotation.
In his ﬁ  nal eight appearances, he put together an im-
pressive 1.82 ERA while amassing 59 strikeouts in 39.2 
innings. He was pivotal to Florida’s run in the College 
World Series, where the Gators tied for third.
Quite simply, Puk found his mojo.
“I got into a groove and just kept that rolling over 
from summer and into this fall and into the spring,” he said.
      
Puk has the pure stuff that not many collegiate play-
ers have.
A mid-90s fastball that’ll turn a scout’s head and wid-
en his eyes like a ﬁ  xated owl.
A wipeout slider that can fool a hitter when he needs 
to pull the string.
Think Hall-of-Famer Randy Johnson. Think Chicago 
White Sox ace Chris Sale.
If you can’t tell by now, facing Puk is one tall task 
for a hitter.
Just ask his teammates.“I say a little prayer before I go in (the batter’s box),” sophomore outﬁ  elder Jeremy Vasquez said. “That’s got-ta be the toughest lefty I’ve faced ever.”
Vasquez, a left-handed hitter, said Puk’s height and 
frame only add to his intimidation factor.
“He’s a 6-foot-7 lefty that throws mid-90s, and he’s 
got two good off-speed pitches that he can throw for strikes,” he said. “You don’t know what’s coming.”
Sophomore inﬁ  elder Christian Hicks said he faced 
Puk for the ﬁ  rst time a few weeks ago.
The lefty hitter struck out on three pitches.“You try and take early in the count just in case he 
doesn’t ﬁ  ll up the zone, but then you ﬁ  nd yourself 0-2 
and you don’t know if a curveball or a 90-something’s 
coming,” Hicks said. “It kind of makes it hard from there.”
While it’s no secret Puk can mow down lefties like 
Vasquez and Hicks, he also gives righties nightmares at the plate.
Puk’s catcher last year, sophomore JJ Schwarz, has 
seen more of his pitches than anyone else on the team.
Yet in scrimmages, Schwarz said every at-bat versus 
Puk is challenging, even from the right side of the plate.
“It’s not fun,” he said. “If you don’t strike out, you’re 
happy.”
First baseman Peter Alonso, who lives with Puk off 
campus, also said he’s the toughest of UF’s pitchers to face.
“I’m not really a huge fan of facing A.J.,” he said. 
“He’s got good stuff. He’s an unreal pitcher.”
      
From his high school days in Iowa, Puk’s success has 
taken time to cultivate.
A highly regarded two-way player as a pitcher and 
ﬁ  rst baseman, Puk was the No. 5 ranked left-hander in Perfect Game’s Class of 2013 national rankings.
He was also Perfect Game’s No. 1-ranked player in 
the state of Iowa.
But Puk said the competition in Iowa is not nearly as 
ﬁ  erce as it is in the Southeastern Conference.
“The talent is good, but being up there I was able 
to get away with more things,” he said. “Coming here I had to learn how to work, how to work hard, how to 
improve on everything. It’s the SEC. It’s the best college 
baseball in the country.”
One key that factored into Puk’s decision to attend 
Florida was O’Sullivan and his staff’s track record with pitchers.
O’Sullivan has seen current major leaguers Anthony 
DeSclafani, Paco Rodriguez and Brian Johnson get draft-ed under his tutelage.
But he’s never coached a player quite like Puk.“(He’s) a 6-foot-7, 6-foot-8 lefty that throws 92, 96 or 
97,” O’Sullivan said. “Those guys get paid an awful lot of money out of high school if they’re throwing strikes.”
Puk and O’Sullivan have worked over the past couple 
years on every aspect of Puk’s game, including his me-chanics on the mound.
Speciﬁ  cally, the two have worked on Puk’s delivery, 
aiming to achieve a repeatable motion that will produce more strikes.
“Just going over my delivery every day and just ﬁ  nd-
ing something that’s comfortable,” Puk said.
And it’s already paid dividends.A few weeks ago, O’Sullivan watched the junior 
pump strikes into the zone while effectively locating his fastball and secondary pitches.
“It was the best that he’s thrown since he’s been 
here,” O’Sullivan said. “Obviously we know he’s got a great fastball, but he’s kind of learning how to pitch.”
      
Off the ﬁ  eld, Puk isn’t nearly as intimidating as he is 
on the mound.
He’s goofy, funny and sarcastic, Schwarz said.“We always tease each other just about anything,” 
Schwarz said. “Like he’ll throw a bad pitch in the pen. I’ll throw it back to him and be like, ‘Up, boy.’”
But Schwarz said there’s more to Puk than his light-
hearted nature and his 97-mph fastball.
“He might not want to admit it, but you can tell he 
really cares about everybody on the team,” he said.  
Even at home, where he lives with fellow juniors 
Shore, Alonso, Larson and Snead, Puk has assumed wake-up duties by knocking on everyone’s door for ear-
ly morning workouts.
“A.J. is deﬁ  nitely ‘Father Time’ making sure every-
one is on time,” Larson said.
Shore, who has lived with Puk since both of their 
freshman years, said that’s how Puk has always been.
The two have looked out for each other on and off 
the ﬁ  eld for the past three years. Because of this, Puk 
said they’ve created a relationship in which they feed off each other to become better pitchers.
“We’ve roomed since day one here,” he said. “We go 
over other teams we’re playing all the time, the hitters, and it’s just great to go back and forth with what we see. It helps out a lot.”
And now, as the season gets underway, the two will 
have a chance to help lead Florida back to Omaha in hopes of winning the program’s ﬁ  rst College World Se-ries.
But even if the Gators come up short, Puk and Shore 
know they have bright futures ahead of them with the draft right around the corner.
“You know, it’s kind of the white elephant in the 
room,” Shore said. “It’s kind of the thing that everybody 
knows is there and knows it’s gonna come.
“But I think the more that we focus on winning a 
national championship and winning games day-in and 
day-out, I think that’ll help us all in the draft.”
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgNow draft eligible, A.J. Puk is poised for a big year STARTING LINEUP
FLORIDA’S OPENING DAY LINEUP1ST BASE: PETER ALONSO
Finally healthy after a sophomore 
season plagued by a broken foot and nose, Florida’s power-hitting ﬁ  rst baseman has the potential to be a force at the plate. He hit ﬁ  ve home runs last 
year despite playing half the season.  
2ND BASE: DEACON LIPUT
One of two freshmen projected to 
start in Florida’s inﬁ  eld, Liput hit over .400 against UF’s pitching staff during fall camp. He was twice named an honorable mention All-American by 
Perfect Game during his prep career.
3RD BASE: JONATHAN INDIA
India, Florida’s second freshman 
slated to start, was a top prospect out of American Heritage High. He has big shoes to ﬁ  ll defensively, as graduated senior Josh Tobias committed just one 
error at the hot corner a year ago.
SHORTSTOP: DALTON GUTHRIE
Guthrie makes the transition from 
second base to shortstop following the departure of ﬁ  rst-round draft pick Richie Martin. The sophomore is quick on his feet and has a smooth rhythm 
defensively. Expect him to bat leadoff.
LEFT FIELD: RYAN LARSON
A solid defender and contact hitter, 
Larson provides a veteran presence in left ﬁ  eld, where he will replace Harrison Bader. While not the ﬂ  ashiest hitter on the team, he consistently 
puts the ball in play.
CENTER FIELD: BUDDY REED
Coming off a breakout year in which 
he led UF with 86 hits and made the All-SEC Defensive Team, Reed is ready to continue his success. His speed is daunting on the basepaths, 
where he stole 18 bases last year.
RIGHT FIELD: JEREMY VASQUEZ
A hand injury limited his playing time 
early, but the outﬁ  elder left his mark as a freshman. In 42 games (29 starts), the lefty batted .339 with two home runs. He often served as O’Sullivan’s pinch-
hitter of choice late in the season.
DH: JJ SCHWARZ
Schwarz led the Gators with 18 
home runs as a freshman and has the potential to do it again. He will 
be a critical bat in the early lineup to 
set the tone for the rest of the team.A TALL ORDER
Deacon Liput2B
Mike RiveraCPeter Alonso1B
Jonathan India3B
JJ SchwarzDHJeremy VasquezRFBuddy ReedCF
Ryan LarsonLF
Dalton GuthrieSS
A.J. Puk pitches during a Florida preseason 
scrimmage on Feb. 3 at McKethan Stadium.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator StaffDeacon Liput stands ﬁ  rm at third base 
while a teammate steps up to bat.
At a preseason scrimmage for the 
No. 1 Florida baseball team, the fresh-man is working to stake his claim on 
a roster riddled with Major League prospects.
The ball ﬂ  ies straight toward him.Without hesitation and with laser focus, 
Liput extends his arm, dips down and makes a swift grab with ease as head coach Kevin O’Sullivan claps in approval from the third-base dugout.
While the hype surrounding the Gators 
is because their loaded junior class — from 
pitchers Logan Shore and A.J. Puk to out-
ﬁ  elder Buddy Reed and ﬁ  rst baseman Peter Alonso — the production from Florida’s top-ranked freshman recruiting class will be the deciding factor in the Gators’ quest for the program’s ﬁ  rst national title.“Over the course of the last 
ﬁ  ve or six years, you’ve seen us play a lot of freshmen,” O’Sullivan said. “We’re not afraid to do that. We don’t con-
sider our freshmen — of course 
they’re going to have a learning curve so to speak, but the fact of the matter is we signed them to come in here and play, and I ex-pect them to have good years.”
Year after year, O’Sullivan 
continues to refuel and reload. This year might have been the best job he’s done in his 
nine years with the Gators.
On the mound, O’Sullivan brought in 
pitching duo Brady Singer and Jackson 
Kowar, a future one-two punch in the mak-ing.
Singer, a second-round draft pick by the Toronto Blue Jays in June’s MLB Draft, already has a fastball in the mid-90s and a mental tough-ness that O’Sullivan has praised throughout the preseason.
“It’s electric,” O’Sullivan 
said of Singer’s pitching. “You guys have seen it and you will see it this year. He’s 94, 95 with a changeup and a slider, so it’s pretty impressive for a fresh-man.”
Kowar, a 6-foot-5 righty out of Charlotte, 
North Carolina, has the potential to be a mid-
dle-inning reliever and occasional midweek 
starter early in his career.
In the ﬁ  eld, Liput and Perfect Game All-
American Jonathan India are expected to start at second and third base, respectively. The freshmen inﬁ  elders posted a .400 bat-ting average against the Gators’ pitching staff in fall ball, a nearly impossible feat even for Florida’s veteran batters.
Outﬁ  elder Danny Reyes, inﬁ  elder Blake 
Reese and pitchers Michael Byrne and Mac-
Gregor Hines all have the potential to see 
playing time early in their careers.
When the Gators open against Florida Gulf 
Coast at 7 p.m. under the lights at the Mac, their quest to return to Omaha begins.
For the juniors, it’s more than likely their 
ﬁ  nal go-round before taking their talents to the professional level.
But in order to have a solid ﬁ  nal year, the 
rookies will need to play like veterans.
Jordan McPherson is a sports writer. You 
can contact him at jmcpherson@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @J_McPher-son1126.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
AIR JORDAN
UF’s juniors are talented, but freshmen will be key to success
Jordan     
McPherson
UF freshman Brady Singer pitches 
during a Florida preseason scrim-mage on Jan. 29 at McKethan Sta-dium. Singer was drafted by the T o-ronto Blue Jays in June’s MLB Draft.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff