We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 127 MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016
Florida falls to Kentucky 
in extra innings
The Gators have lost 
two games in a row, pg. 13
911-Report
RTS threat, T aco Bell robbery and drugs, pg. 3
UF and UF Health rise in employer rankings
They are both in the top 100, pg. 5Work it
Pride Awareness Month celebrated its annual fashion show. Check out the photo story, pgs. 8-9
VISITORS WALKED THROUGH 
AN INFLATABLE COLON.
By Stephanie Belina
Alligator Contributing Writer
A 30-foot long inﬂ  atable colon stood in the 
UF Health Shands Hospital Atrium on Friday.
UF Health and Shands rented the colon 
for free instead of paying the $5,000 to buy it, 
said Felicia Corbin, an advanced endoscopy 
nurse navigator for Shands. The event was held for National Colorectal Cancer Aware-ness Month. The colon is part of the large in-
testine and helps with digestion.
The event is usually held the ﬁ  rst Friday 
of March, but due to high demand, the giant colon wasn’t available to rent until the end of the month, she said. 
It’s in high demand because Bayer Phar-
maceuticals, a pharmaceutical company who supplies the giant colon, donates and sets it 
up for free.
Shands has been planning the event since 
January, Corbin said.To educate the public about colon cancer, 
pictures of its different stages were posted in-
side the colon as people walked through, said Rachel Rivera, the marketing assistant for UF’s Department of Medicine.
Kate Ingerto, an inpatient pediatric physi-
cal therapy volunteer at Shands, said she was surprised to see the giant colon when she left the hospital.
“Normally I don’t stop for these events, 
but this caught my eye and made me want to walk through,” the 21-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology junior said.  Keep your colon clean
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
A former NFL player told UF students to be 
themselves at TEDxUF on Friday night.
Ten people spoke at the event, held in the 
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, during 
the four-hour conference that focused on iden-tity, said Erin Meisenzahl-Peace, a 21-year-old UF journalism senior and the curator of TEDx-UF. About 1,600 students listened as speakers 
talked about video games, sexual orientation, 
genetic engineering and meditation.
The event was free for students, and about 
16 sponsors provided money for the confer-ence, said Meisenzahl-Peace. None of the speakers were paid.
Veronica Hernandez, a UF digital arts and sciences senior, opened the conference by talking about video games and apathy. She told students to be their own superheroes.
“The world is under attack,” the 21-year-
old said. “Apathy isn’t just a villain; it’s a su-
pervillain.”
She used her own experience as a video-
game user experience designer, in which she 
researches and improves players’ experienc-
es, to show how students can enact change 
in their lives.
“You don’t need to lead the march to make 
a difference,” she said.Hernandez was the only student to talk 
at the conference. She said she felt humbled and encouraged to be onstage with the other speakers.
“It’s hard to feel that way when you’re 
standing next to so many accomplished adults,” she said.
She said her speech was inspired by her 
friends’ and family’s doubts that global is-
sues, such as war, can be ﬁ  xed. But she said 
everyone can work to ﬁ  ght against apathy,  Former NFL player, UF student discuss identity at TEDxUF
SEE TEDX,  PAGE 4LOCAL
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Song and dance ﬁ  lled Bartley Temple 
United Methodist Church on Sunday.
In the ﬁ  nal moments of the Easter ser-
vice, 14-year-old Ajalan Carter walked to the front of the chapel and held back tears as she spoke about her friend Robert Dentmond.
On Sunday, March 20, law enforcement 
ofﬁ  cers shot and killed 16-year-old Dentmo-nd after he appeared to be holding an assault riﬂ  e. They later discovered it was a BB gun.
“Now that he is gone, it’s hard on every-
body,” Carter, a member of the church, said. 
“It’s hard on this community.”
Carter wore a handmade shirt adorned 
with Dentmond’s picture, and she told the crowd Dentmond, despite rumors, was not 
a bad person.
His personality was loving and intelli-
gent, and he always knew how to raise her spirits, she said.
“I just want this to be a good home-going 
for Robert, because that’s what he deserves: a good home-going,” Carter said. 
As Carter spoke, some of Robert’s friends Robert 
Dentmond remembered at Easter service
SEE DENTMOND,  PAGE 4
There were 10 speakers
UF Health Shands Hospital displayed a 30-foot-long 
inﬂ  atable colon in the hospital’s atrium on Friday as part of National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month.
Stephanie Belina / Alligator“I just want this to be a good home-
going for Robert, because that’s what he 
deserves: a good home-going.”
Ajalan Carter
14-year-old Gainesville residentSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Three Minute Thesis Final 
Competition
The UF Graduate School will host the third-annual Three Minute Thesis (3MT) competi-
tion Tuesday at 2 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Auditorium. The competition challenges doc-toral students to present their dissertations to a non-techni-cal audience in three minutes or less. Along with helping graduate students hone their communication and presen-
tation skills, winners will be 
awarded cash prizes. This competition is open to the public. For more information, please visit graduateschool.ufl.edu/about-us/events/3mt.
NASA Speakers Coming to UFOn Tuesday in the Computer Science and Engineering Building, Room E119, at 6:15 p.m., Larry Fineberg and Justin Treptow from NASA 
will speak about the Nuclear 
Spectroscopic Telescope Array (NuSTAR) and systems engi-neering. Larry Fineberg works in launch services systems, while Justin Treptow works in the flight design branch. They will share their stories on some of the things they 
have worked on at NASA and 
the challenges they overcame. There will be food and drinks at the event, so come hear these amazing speakers, as well as get to know other stu-dents from the Small Satellite Design Club.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alliga-tor.org. To request publica-tion in the next day’s news-
paper, please submit the 
event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 127
HIGH  84° LOW  59°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
The Univ ersity of Florida AHE C Program pr ovides y ou with all the  tools y ou nee d to quit!
Program covers all forms of tobacco.
Sponsored by the UF AHEC Tobacco Free Florida Cessation Program and the Florida Department of Health.
 More than DOUBLES your chances of success!
 Includes FREE nicotine patches/gum/lozenges!
 Convenient ON- and OFF-CAMPUS locations!
Call 352.265.9569 to ﬁnd out more.
Did You Know?
Learn to Live
Without Tobacco.
Help is FREE!
· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·
Police: Local man threatens to harm 
RTS driver
A Gainesville man was arrested Saturday after police 
said he threatened to kill a Regional Transit System bus 
driver with a pocket knife.
At about 11 a.m., Ricky Lynn Owens, 56, sat at the 
Rosa Parks Downtown Station when a bus driver asked if he was banned from using RTS, according to a police report.
The question upset Owens, who stepped out of his 
wheelchair, revealed a black knife and walked toward the open door of the bus, according to the report.
“I’m going to kill you,” Owens said, according to the 
report.
The bus driver closed the door before Owens could 
reach him, according to the report, and Owens was still there when police arrived.
“Someone was going to die today,” he said multiple 
times, assuring police the “someone” would not be him, according to the report.
Police found the knife in Owens’ front left pocket, ac-
cording to the report. Owens later told police he bran-dished the knife in self-defense.
Owens was found guilty of petty theft in 2014, accord-
ing to Alachua County court records. Since 2004, several charges for battery and aggravated assault were dropped.
Police arrested Owens on a charge of aggravated as-
sault. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail, where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $75,000 bond.Police: Gainesville trio robs Taco Bell 
drive-thru
Three Gainesville residents were arrested Saturday after 
police said they stole about $670 from Taco Bell.
At about midnight, Alexis Washington, 21, drove to the 
Taco Bell on Archer Road and waited in line at the drive-
thru, according to the report.
Thomas Jerome Lundy II, 18, and Aubrey Desean Strong, 
19, then stepped out of the car, according to the report.
Washington ordered and then proceeded to the pickup 
window, where Lundy reached inside the restaurant and grabbed a cash drawer while Strong served as the lookout, according to the report.
Lundy and Strong ran with about $670 as Taco Bell em-
ployees followed, according to the report. The two sepa-rated as they crossed Windmeadows Boulevard, ditching the cash drawer as they continued their escape, according to the report. Police later stopped Strong and Washington at 
the Winn-Dixie on Southwest 34th Street.
Authorities found Lundy near Spanish Trace Apart-
ments, where he admitted to a failed robbery at a McDon-
ald’s in Alachua, Florida, hours earlier, according to the report.
Police arrested Washington on charges of accessory after 
the fact and driving with a revoked license. Authorities took her to the Alachua County Jail, where she remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $31,000 bond.
Police arrested Lundy and Strong on charges of burglary 
and grand theft. As of press time, they remain in the Ala-chua County Jail in lieu of $100,000 bonds.Local man arrested with 37 grams of 
cocaine, $1,300
A Gainesville man was arrested Thursday after police 
said he had cocaine, MDMA, marijuana and more than 
$1,000 in cash.
At about 9 p.m., Abraham William Thompson, 24, 
stood on the southeast corner of Southwest 31st Avenue with a partially rolled blunt in his hand, according to a police report.
The blunt weighed about 2 grams, according to the 
report. Police then arrested Thompson and searched his pockets.
In his left rear pants pocket, police found plastic bags 
filled with about 22 grams of powder cocaine, 15 grams 
of crack cocaine and 3 grams of Molly, according to the 
report.
In Thompson’s front right pants pocket, police found 
$1,290 in cash, according to the report.
Because no paraphernalia was found, police said they 
believe Thompson intended to sell the drugs rather than use them.
Thompson, whose aliases include Ham and Fye Crac-
ka, told police he was holding the drugs as a favor for 
someone, according to the report.
Police arrested Thompson on charges of possessing 
less than 20 grams of marijuana, possessing amphet-
amine and trafficking cocaine.
Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail, 
where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $151,000 bond.
-By Martin Vassolo -By Martin Vassolo -By Martin Vassolowhich is the root of the world’s problems.
“None of this would happen without ev-
eryday people,” she said.
Most of the speakers were from Gainesville 
or north Florida, said Meisenzahl-Peace. 
Wade Davis II, a former NFL player, also 
spoke.
Davis, while wearing a transgender rights 
T-shirt, talked about living as a closeted gay 
man. He said he was so afraid of coming out he bullied anyone perceived to be effeminate 
or gay.
“We raise young boys to wear a mask of 
toughness in order to be a man,” he said. “I 
was never taught how to be myself and how 
to love myself.”
Sophia Visent, a UF geomatics freshman, 
said she enjoyed the variety of speakers.
“The presenters within each talk gave 
something of themselves,” the 19-year-old 
said. “They brought in different perspectives, 
different ideas.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016
TEDX,  from pg 1Most of the TEDxUF speakers were from GNV, north Floridacried and held their heads.
The Rev. Mary Mitchell, who led Sunday’s service, 
said it was time for residents to support each other.
“I ask that you pray for the young man’s family. I 
ask that you pray for law enforcement officers. I ask 
that you pray for this community,” Mitchell said. “But especially, pray for these young people because I’m 
looking in their faces and I see their hurt.”
After the service, Carter held a bake sale in the 
church’s hallway, where she sold cookies, cake pops 
and slices of sweet potato pie to patrons.
Carter said she baked the treats with her mother 
and other members of the church. She raised $314.75 in about 30 minutes for Dentmond’s adoptive mother, Jennifer Appel.
A candlelight vigil will be held at 7:15 p.m. Mon-
day at Powerhouse Family Worship Center, located at 7600 SW 24th Ave., where several frustrated residents condemned local authorities at last Tuesday’s town hall meeting.
Another vigil is scheduled for 6:30 p.m. Friday at 
Bartley Temple, located at 1936 NE 8th Ave. The Rev. 
Milford Griner of Pleasant Plain United Methodist 
Church said the church will not tolerate protests such as those at Tuesday’s meeting.
“This is just a prayer vigil to give us a chance to 
talk about Robert,” he said.
Carter said she was happy the community came 
together Sunday, but unity should be a regular occur-rence.
“It felt great,” she said, “but it’s also sad that it 
takes a death in the community to bring us all togeth-er.”
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgDENTMOND,  from pg 1A candlelight vigil will be held Monday THE SOFTWARE SYSTEM 
COST $15,800.
By JW Glass
Alligator Contributing Writer
Quintino De Sousa filmed a 
commercial for an app-devel-
opment contest using Library West’s new video software.
The system, called One But-
ton Studio, became accessible 
to students last week in Room 
142, said Stacey Ewing, the as-
sociate chair of Library West. To 
use the software, students plug a  flash drive into a video cam-era to compress and save the re-cording onto the flash drive.
The system cost $15,800 to 
buy, with $10,000 covered by an internal grant and the rest through a partnership between Smathers Libraries and UF Aca-demic Technology, she said.
Students can also use a green 
screen in the room to customize their videos, Ewing said. The room can be reserved on the Dibs system.
Only a couple students have 
used the system so far, she said.
“This week is a soft launch, 
so we expect room usage to pick up over the next few weeks as word gets out.” Ewing said.  
De Sousa, a 25-year-old 
UF advertising junior, said he thinks the room is the best-kept 
secret on campus.
“I was in total awe when I 
stepped in the room,” De Sousa 
said. “Everything was just so easy to use, and all the librari-ans were so happy that we were using the room.”Library West opens 
video filming studio 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
The new One Button Studio in Library West, Room 142, opened 
last week to students. T o use the $15,800 system, students plug an 8-GB flash drive into a video camera to compress and save the recording on the flash drive.
LOCAL
By Janiece Sebris
Alligator Contributing Writer
Vendor applications will soon 
be due for the 37th Annual Fifth 
Avenue Arts Festival, which in-
cludes new entertainment and 
themes.
Gainesville’s Cultural Arts Co-
alition will accept vendor applica-
tions until all openings are filled, 
but it will charge a late fee for submissions made after April 8, said Nkwanda Jah, the coalition’s director.
Jah said this year’s theme, 
“Celebrating Life,” is about re-specting people of the past and recognizing the beauty in every-
one. The festival will take place 
from April 22 to April 24.Vendor applications are avail-
able at the Wilhelmina Johnson 
Center, located at 321 NW 10th 
St., online at culturalartscoalition.com or via phone at 352-372-0216.
Each year, Jah said, the festival 
highlights a loss of culture in the Fifth Avenue African-American community.
Factors such as student hous-
ing caused the historic area to ex-perience increasing gentrification, she said.“The complexion of this com-
munity has changed so very much 
over the 37 years that we’ve been 
doing this festival,” Jah said.
On April 22, a new pre-festival 
showcase called Black Out Friday will feature music and dancing 
from different cultures at the new-
ly renovated Bo Diddley Commu-nity Plaza, said Shera Sherman, the executive director of Project 
Beautiful and a committee mem-
ber for the festival.
Sherman said she hopes the 
festival will help mend a division in Gainesville’s communities and 
cultures.
“Everyone has their own goals, 
but we all need to work together 
to promote excellence,” Sherman 
said.Art festival to celebrate diversity 
“The complexion of this 
community has changed so 
very much over the 37 years 
that we’ve been doing this 
festival.”
Nkwanda Jah
coalition director
Courtesy to the Alligator
Veronica Hernandez, a UF digital arts and sciences senior, speaks about video games and apathy during the TEDxUF conference 
on Friday. “The world is under attack, ” the 21-year-old said. “Apathy isn’t just a villain; it’s a supervillain. ”MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR  5
HEALTH
By Monica Humphries
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF business students will extinguish ﬁ  res 
as they become ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters for a day on Sat-
urday.
The day is part of a leadership program the 
Warrington College of Business and the War-
rington Diplomats host each semester, said 
Kara Conley, the president of the Warrington Diplomats. This is the ﬁ  rst time students will be ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters for the program.
Students will learn to ﬁ  ght ﬁ  res at Florida 
State Fire College in Ocala, Florida, the UF ac-counting senior said. This will teach them how to handle stress.
“It’s important for students to learn all of 
those soft skills that you just can’t get out of a classroom,” the 22-year-old said.
The ventures are hosted by Warrington 
Diplomats, she said. About 30 students can go for $20 each. The trip is from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and includes transportation and lunch. Students in the past have cooked like an “Iron Chef,” sailed in St. Augustine and baked like a “Cake Boss.” Forrest Hoffman, a UF ﬁ  nance 
junior and Warrington Diplomat, said going on 
these trips teaches students teamwork.
“They show you how to work with people 
that you’ve never really met,” the 21-year-old said.
Conley said the Warrington Diplomats 
wanted to do something new this semester. She got to go to Florida State Fire College about two months ago to experience what students 
will do this weekend: using a ﬁ  re hose, going 
down a ﬁ  re pole and extinguishing ﬂ  ames.
“I was way too excited, but it gave me the 
opportunity to better communicate what’s go-ing to happen,” she said. “It was interesting to be at the facilities and just see the culture.”  Students learn 
to ﬁ  ght ﬂ  ames and stress
By Sophie Smadbeck
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF and UF Health now rank within the top 
100 places to work for.
Forbes released its ranking of America’s 
Best Employers of 2016 on Wednesday. UF 
moved up to No. 90 from No. 154 last year 
and UF Health moved up to No. 89 from No. 
121.
David Guzick, the president of UF Health, 
said UF Health moved up in the rankings due to the relationships employees build with 
their patients.
“We focus on the patient, and everybody 
knows that’s our common goal: to create a 
sense of connectedness,” Guzick said. 
Guzick said he was honored to be ranked 
in the top 100.
“Here we are, a little health care system, 
so it’s really remarkable because there are so 
many different employers,” Guzick said.
Jessica Harland-Jacobs, an associate pro-
fessor for the department of history, said she likes working at UF because of the diverse 
Student Body.
“We have a really good range of students 
here from different kinds of backgrounds, dif-
ferent training,” she said. “So I think it’s really 
an excellent public university in that sense.” But Harland-Jacobs said she thinks UF could improve in some areas.
She said one of the main issues is that fac-
ulty members don’t receive regular raises with 
regards to cost of living or based on merit.
“I think that the general climate at UF is 
very positive, and we are able to do our jobs 
in many productive ways, but there is also room for improvement as well,” she said.  UF, UF Health rise in employer rankings
By Paris Olkes
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jewish Gainesville residents can now ﬁ  nd 
out if they carry a genetic disease for free. 
The Einstein Victor Center for the Preven-
tion of Jewish Genetic Diseases is coming to UF Hillel on April 11, said Deborah Wasserman, 
the center’s outreach coordinator. Hillel hasn’t 
held a screening since about 2012.
The center will provide phlebotomists, who are trained to draw blood, to take samples to test for diseases, including Tay-Sachs disease, 
which destroys nerve cells, and cystic ﬁ  brosis, 
a disorder that affects the lungs and digestive system.
Natera, a genetic testing and diagnostics 
company, will analyze blood samples, Wasser-man said. Screenings are open to anyone be-tween the ages of 18 and 45 with at least one grandparent of Jewish descent.
While genetic screenings normally cost about $2,000, Hillel’s will be free for those with health insurance, with the exception of United-
Healthcare, she said. Those without insurance 
will pay $95. About one in every two Jewish people carries the gene for at least one disease, Wasserman said.
The center travels to colleges around the 
country to give free screenings, Wasserman said.
Sabina Braverman, a nonproﬁ  t manage-
ment intern at Hillel, said most Jewish college students don’t know about diseases and their chances of being a carrier. Jewish parents who 
are carriers run the risk of giving it to their chil-
dren. 
Braverman, 22, said young adults don’t 
consider the diseases because they don’t affect them yet. She said she hopes at least 100 people come.
“There are never too many people to help 
prevent diseases and save lives,” the UF psy-chology senior said.  Jewish genetic disease center returns to provide screeningsBy Catalina Ruiz
Alligator Contributing Writer
Kelly O’Brien spent two months 
practicing her American Sign Lan-guage for a performance held Satur-day.
O’Brien, a student from the Uni-
versity of South Florida who signed “Here” by Alessia Cara, was one of 11 students from four Florida col-leges who competed at UF’s Signing Gators’ second annual Intercollegiate American Sign Language Idol.Students from the University of 
North Florida, Santa Fe Commu-nity College, USF and UF interpreted songs to sign. Songs performed in ASL needed to be translated by the meaning of the song, not the words.
The event, held at the Samuel P. 
Harn Museum of Art, was supposed to be live-streamed on YouTube for the ﬁ  rst time but wasn’t due to a last-minute technical difﬁ  culty, said Lexi Cunio, the president of Signing Gators.
It took a year to plan and drew about 150 people, said Christopher Gonzalez, 22, the treasurer of Sign-ing Gators. The $1,300 event was funded by Student Government.
Andrew Reyes, a student from 
USF who performed “Alive” by Sia, said his family and friends were 
disappointed when they could not 
watch him win ﬁ  rst place.
“I had 40 messages from people 
who were going to watch it,” he said. “I just wish someone at the event had told us it didn’t work so we could tell everyone back home.”Cunio, 21, said there was an is-
sue with the cord that connected the camera and the computer. The vid-eos are being edited as of press time and will be uploaded to YouTube.
Performances were evaluated 
by three judges: two deaf, Michael 
Stutlz and Constance Hardy, and 
one hearing, Patricia Wooten. The judges used a scoring sheet for each contestant to keep track of his or her performance, said Lani Crosby, the master of ceremonies.
The contestants were judged on six components of their performanc-es: structure, posture, skill, facial ex-pressions, development of signs, and creativity, she said to the audience.
Reyes won ﬁ  rst, David Phillips of 
UNF won second place and O’Brien won third. All three received tro-
phies for their performances.
O’Brien said knowing ASL is like 
knowing a secret code. She said 
more people should learn it.
“The people who use the lan-
guage are just as beautiful as the lan-guage itself,” she said. 
 UF sign language competition faces technical diﬃ   culties
They’re both in the top 100
INTERNATIONAL TALENT
Ozge Gongur Yesilakaya, from the Republic of 
Turkey, performs an opera in honor of those who have suffered the recent violence in her home country on Friday night at the University Auditorium during the UF English Language Institute’s talent show.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator StaffThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Despite representation, gay characters always die
It’s not enough to have representation — 
LGBTQ+ characters need to be alive and acknowledged, too. This seems logical, 
but it’s clearly not practiced in the media, 
which regularly practices tokenism: includ-
ing a character of a certain identity but then not going anywhere with it. For example, in 
the recent Deadpool movie, Deadpool’s bisex-
ual identity was not explicitly acknowledged. While it’s great those who follow the comics know he’s bisexual, most people had no idea, so it’s dif-ficult to say this “counts” in terms of representation. It’s 
similar to how any movie Thor is in does not count as 
representation of women, even though Marvel Entertain-ment writer Jason Aaron made the new comic-book Thor a woman as of fall 2014. Representation in the media still 
leaves much to be desired.
Telling stories about people from a variety of back-
grounds is important, but killing them off in huge num-
bers can negate some of those positive effects. A few weeks ago, “The 100,” a post-apocalyptic adventure 
show, killed off a lesbian character, causing uproar and 
provoking a response from the creator of the show. Ac-cording to Caroline Framke of Vox, this is a part of the “bury your gays” trope, which occurs despite already 
dismal representation for queer women. Framke writes, 
“Adding insult to fatal injury is the fact that many les-bian character deaths seem to happen for no other reason than to further a show’s plot.”
A death of a lesbian character is an event that hap-
pens on the sidelines of straight characters’ lives, rather than the emotional, drawn-out death often ascribed to other characters — which is an important distinction, because it tells you who the story is really about: the 
straight people. 
Framke further explains how a show’s use of gay char-acters as simple plot devices presents them as 
disposable. When there are so few gay char-acters on television, each one of their deaths 
matters. According to the LGBT empowerment 
group GLAAD’s Where Are We on TV Report 2015, only 4 percent of regular characters were gay, lesbian or bisexual on broadcast prime-
time programming. This is dismal, considering 
just how many characters are on TV.
Despite this, it’s still important to take into 
account how far media has come in the past 20 years, when LGBTQ+ representation was not widely discussed 
or considered important by filmmakers. 
According to the Critical Media Project, “There has 
been an increase in LGBTQ representation in the media 
since the late 1990s in film and television, but there are 
still very few prominent LGBT characters in the main-
stream media.” 
In other words, it’s not just the fact that a character is 
LGBTQ+ that matters; it’s also how the character is por-trayed and what happens to them. Saying a character is 
gay, much like J.K. Rowling did with Dumbledore, is not 
enough, but rather those characters need to be featured prominently on screen. 
Killing off gay characters early in storylines halts any 
relationships that might have formed, while writers get to pat themselves on the back for including some LG-BTQ+ representation.
Such characters can’t just be included: Their perfor-
mances have to matter within the context of the show. 
When writing about LGBTQ+ people, it’s not just quan-
tity, but quality that needs to be taken into account.
 A character that dies after a few episodes is not a 
reason for a show to be lauded for its progressiveness.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.Free birds, Bernie supporters and Portland, Oregon: The only thing possibly more hippie-liberal is Bob Marley delivering a Hendrix-signed guitar to Che Guevara while 
driving a quinoa-and-kale-fueled smart car littered with 
“Imagine” and “co-exist” paraphernalia. Clearly the lat-
ter only resides in the daydreams of those who take bathroom breaks during work at precisely 4:20 p.m. However, the for-
mer actually took place on Friday: A cute, little bird landed on 
Bernie’s stage and then flew atop his podium during his rally speech. Some view the appearance of this bird as a sign of prov-idence, of Bernie’s pure-hearted candidacy, Mother Nature’s Princess Leia appealing to Bernie to say, “Help me Bernie-Wan 
Kenobi. You’re my only hope”: not us at the Alligator.
No, we don’t take our cues from the lamestream liberal me-
dia. While Bernie may have referred to the birdie as “a dove 
asking for world peace,” we take our role as journalists seri-
ously by following the evidence and exploring the validity in 
every possible angle, casting our presumptions aside. Every other news outlet’s coverage of this spectacle is framed in awe and positivity. We, on the other hand, question whether this appearance is actually a bad omen for the country, and possibly 
humanity — an affront by bird-kind against mankind.
If you examine the empirical evidence put forth by bird lore 
and mythology, you’ll find a number of revelations that should 
very well cause us all to re-examine what transpired Friday. For 
example, a bird flying into your house is commonly associated 
with an imminent death in the family. Figuratively speaking, Bernie’s rallies serve as an intellectual, political home for his supporters, which then begs the question: Who in the Bernie family has this bird targeted? And given the size of Bernie’s 
political family and the turnout rate at his rallies, the bird may 
have in fact targeted a large group of innocent civilians, not just a single individual. Or perhaps this is a sign of the biblical end of days — birds being swept away from the air and descending 
upon the earth. Ask your neighborhood animal sciences major: 
This is all true.
Now some of you might think this train of thought makes ab-
solutely no sense and is clearly a form of the logical fallacy post hoc, ergo propter hoc (because of this, therefore this). Maybe it 
is. But who needs such training in “logic” or “reasoning” when 
we have the Internet to protect us from falsehoods and inaccu-rate banter? Anyway, we digress.
The point is, heed this “Birdie Sanders” phenomenon with 
serious caution. First a bald eagle nearly attacked Trump at his desk back in August during a photoshoot; now we have a bird confronting Bernie face to face: They’re going after our leaders. Not only that, but bird migration patterns have shifted over the years to where many birds are now venturing into new terri-
tories. Scientists tell us this is because of climate change, but 
we don’t know what those scientists are hiding. We may very well be witnessing an uprising from the bird community like no other.
For too long we’ve grown complacent with birds and their 
cuteness. We must be vigilant in this brazen threat to our na-tional security, which is why we’d recommend a temporary ban on all birds from entering the country until we’ve figured out just exactly what’s going on. It’s time we reclaim our skies from 
those winged, uncultured beasts.The ‘Birdie’ 
supremacy
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
A French girl studying 
to become a translator told me, “It’s easier to 
do some things in a for-
eign language, and it’s 
harder to do other things. It’s harder to be intimate, and it’s 
easier to get men.” In German 
and English, she didn’t have a pre-constructed barrier against men; she was less inhibited because she didn’t have the habit of inhibition. “I’ve 
always had to break up in English,” I told 
her, “but I sure do get pretty when I stop speaking it.” We laughed and clinked our beers.
A co-worker once told me, “In Spanish 
I could be the person I wanted to be.” I told her I was in French. She was moving to Barcelona in the fall to fake-marry her boyfriend from study abroad so she could 
have European residency. She said fake 
marriage was fun. 
You need photo albums to show the 
feds, so you throw parties all the time: 
fake cake, fake party favors, fake pin-the-
tail-on-the-donkey. She’d visited Barce-lona once since her year abroad, and it hadn’t been as magical. That was over, and she knew it was.
To be yourself is a rare feeling, like a 
conﬂ  uence of wind and water. And lan-guage. 
In Robert Roper’s recent “Nabokov in 
America,” he recounts the author’s ﬁ  rst years at Harvard: “Meanwhile, he was half out of the living sea of his Russian, half into the dimensionless American air.” He echoes Isaiah Berlin, who felt shipwrecked 
in England: “I feel a curious transforma-
tion of personality when I speak (Rus-sian) — as if everything becomes easier to express, & the world brighter and more 
charming.”
My grandparents spoke Yiddish and 
then Russian, my father spoke Russian 
and then English and I speak English and then French and Spanish. And here in 
France, I too feel like unchecked cargo: 
unstuck, unreal. 
If I can’t be vulgar in French, am I still 
vulgar? If I can’t be mean, what am I? 
Yet I love the gnomic, half-mystical way foreigners speak, incapable of subtlety. They don’t “like,” they “love.”
What does it mean to switch 
languages? A German professor once told me it would be easi-er for me to learn German and 
then read Georg Wilhelm Fried-
rich Hegel than to read him in English. He said German was 
analytical; the French say French is ana-lytical.
And what of us who leave our lan-
guage? In Paris, in a chokehold of loneli-ness, I wrote. It had never come like this, and maybe never will again, ﬁ  ne and mea-
sured in a language that wasn’t my own. 
Translated to English, my tone sounds 
barebones, blinding: “Narcissism becomes 
necrosis: You smile when I ask if being a good person means I will have a good 
life. It is raining. We are in the metro. You 
have decided we won’t get dinner.” Eng-lish is the cold comfort of lost empire.
In her recent foray into Italian, “In Oth-
er Words,” Jhumpa Lahiri writes, “What does it mean to give up a palace to live practically on the street, in a shelter so fragile?” For Samuel Beckett, French let him write without style. For Eugene Io-
nesco, writing a pronunciation manual of 
French for the American student taught him the theater of the absurd: Once he chose words for their phonemes, he could 
write without meaning.
This poverty is luxury. I struggle so hard 
to speak in French that the world doesn’t 
matter: There’s just me and silence, or else me and words. I always used to tell 
men, “You don’t know me.” It seems like 
that’s all I ever said, just like it seems all I ever overhear French people say is, “He does things a lot, and they’ve got things 
there, whatever. I mean.” And unroped 
from English, stranded at sea, it’s true: In Spanish or French, the truth drowns in silence, and the real me’s all my own. It’s harder to be myself in French, but it’s 
easier to be myself in France. No one can 
really tell me otherwise.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English 
and Spanish senior. Her column appears 
on Mondays.Linguistic poverty can be a luxuryColumn
This month marks the 
sixth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act, also 
known as Obamacare. 
Since its passage in 2010, 
more than 20 million people have signed up for affordable 
health care through healthcare.
gov. 
My father, my mother, my 
two sisters and I were among the millions 
to ﬁ  nally have access to quality health care. 
Before the ACA, my parents couldn’t afford 
health care, and my sisters and I had cov-erage through the government-sponsored Medicare program for children. My parents 
are some of the hardest-working people I 
know: My dad owns a small business, and 
my mom has worked multiple jobs at a time and raised my two sisters and me as a stay-at-home mom.
Unfortunately, in America, my parents 
weren’t unique. It is astonishing that in 
the most advanced economy in the world, millions of working- and middle-class families like mine feared losing it all if someone got sick. 
And while the ACA has helped millions 
of Americans, many Republicans in Con-gress and in our state government are try-ing to dismantle it. 
In the years following the ACA’s pas-
sage, Florida’s Republican-led House of Representatives refused to accept billions of dollars in federal funds that would have expanded Medicaid for hundreds of thou-sands of Floridians.
And even though the federal 
government would pay for 90 
percent of the cost of Medic-
aid expansion, Gov. Rick Scott, who recently endorsed Donald Trump for president, said the 
state couldn’t afford it — while 
simultaneously considering more than $1 billion in tax cuts 
to beneﬁ  t big businesses. 
Republicans have also directed the 
Florida Department of Health to bar feder-al health counselors from over 60 county health agencies. These counselors, known as “navigators,” help people enroll in in-
surance plans and get subsidies under 
Obamacare. 
Without proposing a suitable replace-
ment, Republicans in the U.S. House have tried and failed to repeal the Affordable 
Care Act more than 60 times. 
Young people disproportionately bene-
ﬁ  t from the Affordable Care Act. Most stu-
dents in their early 20s work low-income, 
temporary jobs, which rarely offer health 
insurance. Thanks to the ACA, students can stay on their parents’ insurance plans until they are 26. 
Because of this, more than 5 million 
young adults have gained health cover-age that allows free preventive services that keep us healthy, like HIV and cancer screenings, contraceptive counseling and 
birth control.
For the ﬁ  rst time in our country’s his-
tory, more than 90 percent of Americans 
have health coverage. 
I bet you know someone in your per-
sonal life who has beneﬁ  ted from the Af-fordable Care Act: a sibling who had a pre-existing condition like asthma or dia-betes who can no longer be denied cover-
age, your mother who made too much for 
Medicaid but too little for private insur-ance, a friend who was charged more for her health care because she was a woman.
Call your legislators and tell them you 
support expanded funding for the Afford-able Care Act in our state.
Jesse Fallen is a UF economics senior. 
He is also the president of UF College 
Democrats.Aﬀ  ordable Care Act: good for AmericaGuest column
Jesse Fallen
Speaking Out
“It is astonishing that 
in the most advanced 
economy in the world, 
millions of working- 
and middle-class 
families like mine 
feared losing it all if 
someone got sick.”
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016
Photos by Royce Abela
Alligator Contributing Photographer
Pride Awareness Month cel-
ebrated its annual fashion show on Friday in the Re-
itz Union Rion Ballroom. 
The show wrapped up the 
second week of events, with two more weeks still remaining. The 
fashion show’s theme “Unapolo-
getic” served “to showcase the undeniable, defiant and natural beauty innately found in us all,” 
according to the event page. Vari-
ous locally curated collections were shown off throughout the event.
ABOVE:
Chingya Ni, left, a 25-year-old 
UF graduate, walks hand-in-hand with Andrew James, a 22-year-old UF finance senior.
RIGHT:
Emily McCreary, an 18-year-old UF finance freshman, laughs backstage.ABOVE:
Co-director Misha Luchau, a 21-year-old UF political science senior, speaks to the audience in between showing collections.
LEFT:
Ioana Cardei, left, and Alexander Chavez pose on the runway.
FAR LEFT:
Jabari T aylor dances onstage during his performance.Delvin Jordan, left, a 23-year-old dancer for the Miami Marlins, 
and Devontae Johnson, a 24-year-old professional dancer and 
choreographer, perform during the fashion show.
LEFT:
Chingya Ni poses at the end of the runway.
BELOW:
Models walk collectively on the runway for the lingerie collection during the fashion show.MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-20-15-72-2Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.
CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Sublease @ Lux13 Apartments!3 Bed/3 Bath with screened patioW/D, Cable, Internet, & HBO$1,222/mo & Pet FriendlyAvail. April 1st , 985-974-5404    3-28-16-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Retiring UF Professor's Office Furniture7 armed, leather office chairs = $300. Executive Office Chair = $75. Beautiful ceil-ing fan with halogen lights = $70. Large thin LCD Monitor/TV with wall brackets = $125. Leather couch = $150. All prices firm. Would like to sell all to same person/business. Call 352-219-5539 for an appointment and pick-up at at UF office.   3-31-5-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99995 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
F/T office receptionist wanted. Starting not 
less than $11 per hour. Legal experience not required. Seeking an energetic person for the front desk that can communicate well with clients. We want this person to be a great first impression for our office. Computer skills helpful, but nothing high end required. Call 352-371-4000     4-1-14-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
4-12-15-14
LIVE IN HOUSE MGR
For a co-ed Co-Op near UF in Gainesville. 
Wanted single mature adult, NO UNDER 
GRADUATES MAY APPLY, ideal for PHD 
student or Veteran student, with several 
years of graduate study ahead. Must enjoy 
working with students, responsible, diplo -
matic and assertive. Position starts in May. 
Compensation - bedroom, utilities, parking 
& meals included in exchange for housing 
responsibilities and monthly stipend. Email 
cover letter and resume to apply.clo1931@
gmail.com. Background check required, 
must be bondable, NO PETS. We will email 
you a complete job description upon receiv-
ing your information.    3-29-16-5-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDED
Full time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working student for part-time work in land maintenance on weekends. $10/hr. Contact matt@knellinger -
law.com or 352-591-3000    3-31-5-14
Part time babysitter wanted, must be avail -
able this summer and fall.For four kids ages 7-13 (not all there at all times). Play with 7 year old, drive to activi-ties if needed, light housekeeping (help put away dishes, fold laundry, vaccum) $12/hr. Experience required. Email resume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu.    3-30-16-3-14
YARDWORK
Raking, weeding, minor planting, minor trim-ming. Part time, flexible hours. $10/hr. Contact 352-222-6858 or jobopp77@gmail.com    3-30-16-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida football coach Jim 
McElwain received a raise, plus more in our weekend roundup.Read the story on pg. 15.By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Mike Rivera couldn’t react in time.
With the winning run on third base in the 
bottom of the 10th inning, Florida pitcher Brady Singer overthrew a pitch on an 0-2 count, leaving Rivera, the catcher, to reach across his body.
The ball scooted to the backstop, allowing Ken-tucky pinch runner Tyler Marshall to scurry home on the wild pitch, sealing the Wildcats’ 5-4 win over the No. 1 Gators in extra innings Sunday at Cliff Hagan Stadium.
Florida (23-3, 4-2 Southeastern Conference), 
which lost the series to Kentucky 2-1 for a fourth straight year, dropped two consecutive games for 
the ﬁ  rst time this season.
UF assistant coach Brad Weitzel, speaking for Kevin O'Sullivan after the UF coach was ejected in 
the third inning, said he felt good about his team's chances in the bottom of the 10th after taking the lead in the top half.
After JJ Schwarz singled Buddy Reed home to 
seize a 4-3 lead, Weitzel left the ball in junior Dane Dunning’s hands to close out the game. But with 
one out, Dunning served up a game-tying home 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Speights has efﬁ  cient night in Warriors' win
Former Florida basketball player Marreese Speights scored 17 points on 
7-of-10 shooting and grabbed seven rebounds in Golden State's 117-105 win over Philadelphia on Sunday.Luis T orres / Alligator Staff
Nelson Maldonado bats during Florida's 2-1 win against Florida Atlantic on Tuesday at McKethan Stadium. The freshman went 8-for-
13 with four runs and four RBIs over UF's three-game series against Kentucky this weekend.
Florida falls to Kentucky in extra innings
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s tennis team 
has not missed a beat against Ala-
bama over the past eight years. 
From 2009-2015, UF went 8-0 
against the Crimson Tide in dual-
match competition, outscoring 
them 40-10 over that span.
The No. 16 Gators (11-4, 6-1 
Southeastern Conference) renewed that dominance against Alabama on Sunday afternoon, knocking off the No. 41 Crimson Tide 5-2 at the Roberta Alison Baumgardner Ten-
nis Facility in Tuscaloosa for Flor-
ida’s seventh win in its past eight matches.
“I am proud of our guys to ﬁ  n-
ish off this weekend in Gator fash-ion,” coach Bryan Shelton said in a release. “I like the way we compete and value each point … I believe our guys handled playing indoors very well and we answered the questions that Alabama presented.”
While it would ﬁ  nish the day 
strong, UF found itself in another early deﬁ  cit after the Gators were unable to win the doubles point for the second consecutive match.
Juniors Elliott Orkin and Maxx 
Lipman rebounded from their poor showing on Friday night against Mississippi State, defeating Ala-
bama’s Grayson Goldin and Becker 
O’Shaughnessey 6-3.
Florida’s seniors Gordon Watson 
and Diego Hidalgo were then bested by Korey Lovett and Mazen Osama 7-5 in a hard-fought set, leaving it up to Florida sophomore Chase 
Perez-Blanco and freshman Alfredo 
Perez to defeat the Crimson Tide’s Spencer Richey and Matthew Ros-souw.
The two duos were evenly 
matched throughout the set, even-tually needing a tiebreaker to de-termine the winner after the ﬁ  rst twelve games were split 6-6. 
Richey and Rossouw ultimately 
came out on top, winning the tie-
Gators rally against Alabama in 5-2 victory
UF has only one SEC lossIT'S COHEN DOWN
You may not know the 
name Caeleb Dressel. 
Here is your introduc-
tion. 
Among those who know 
him well, there is an understanding 
about the swimmer.
He has a feel for the water. He 
was built to swim. He was made 
to break records.
“He’s got that little knack,” 
Florida swimming coach Gregg 
Troy said.
In the water, he’s a natural. 
He is the star-studded sophomore single-handedly soaring the Flori-da swimming program to promi-nence at this year’s Southeastern 
Conference and NCAA Champi-
onships.
He swam the 50-yard free-
style faster than any human has ever swam it, touching the wall 
in 18.23 seconds at the SECs on 
Feb. 17.
“Did you expect to swim that 
fast?” Dressel was asked, im-
mediately after breaking the UF, 
NCAA and American record in the 50-yard free in less time than it takes most people to boot up their computer.
“I’ve been working pretty hard 
this season,” the sophomore an-swered through a smile. 
“And I thought I had a little bit 
more left in the tank tonight.”
He did. And although he 
wouldn’t get to prove it that night, or even the next week, he proved it just over a month later, topping 
his 18.23 seconds at the NCAA 
Championships on Thursday and breaking his own world record,  Never heard 
of Caeleb 
Dressel?
You willSEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14
SEE MEN'S TENNIS,  PAGE 14 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenbfinishing in 18.20 seconds.
On Saturday, the sophomore 
captured the third national title 
of his career, swimming the 100-
yard freestyle in 40.46 seconds, the fastest time in that event in recorded history.
Over the last decade, Florida 
has been a school mostly known for its football, baseball and bas-ketball teams, and even for its championship-winning softball and gymnastics programs.
Not many think about the 
swimming team. Here’s why you should.
Dressel will undoubtedly rep-
resent U.S.A at the Rio Olympic Games in August. 
If he’s able to replicate his 
scores at the SEC and NCAA 
meets this season, Dressel would 
almost assuredly take home gold medals.
He’s arguably the best athlete 
that Florida has to offer, and it’s 
because he has perfected his craft 
better than almost anyone in the world, not just across collegiate athletics.
And he’s 19.“I dove in, popped out a good time. So it worked,” Dressel said after breaking the 50-free record 
in February, as if describing his 
last experience at the local movie theater.
Even after three national titles 
and multiple broken records, it’s OK if you’ve never heard of Cae-leb Dressel.
Because you will.A video posted to FloridaGa-
tors.com contributed to this report.
Ian Cohen is the sports editor. 
You can contact him at icohen@
alligator.org and follow him on 
Twitter @icohenb.breaker game 7-5 and giving Ala-
bama an early 1-0 lead.
UF regrouped in singles play, 
though, securing five of the six sin-gles matches to defeat the Crimson Tide (13-9, 4-4 SEC) for the ninth year in a row.
Florida’s Watson was the first 
Gator to finish his match, making quick work of Goldin in a 6-4, 6-0 triumph. 
Hidalgo would soon follow, 
beating Alabama’s top singles play-er Osama 6-2, 6-3 to take back the lead for UF.Perez and Perez-Blanco then 
clinched the victory for Florida, knocking off O’Shaughnessey 4-6, 6-0, 6-0 and Richey 6-4, 6-2, re-spectively, to secure the Gators' fifth-straight win.
UF’s strong play of late has 
vaulted it into second place in the SEC standings. The last time Flori-da won the regular season SEC title 
was 2005, when it shared it with 
Ole Miss.
The Gators return home to face 
Vanderbilt at 5 p.m. Friday at the Ring Tennis Complex.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgrun to UK shortstop Riley Mahan.
“Dunning was throwing really, really good,” 
Weitzel said. “He got a guy out in front of a changeup and scraped it over the right field wall.”
But early on, it didn't look like the game 
would need to come down to extra-inning the-atrics when Florida jumped out to a 3-0 lead in the second inning.
Nelson Maldonado laced an RBI double to 
left field to open the scoring. The freshman fin-ished the game 2-for-4 and was 8-for-13 with two home runs, four RBIs and two doubles on the weekend.
Freshman Jonathan India followed Maldo-
nado’s double with an RBI groundout to capture a 2-0 lead. A batter later, Maldonado hustled home from second on sophomore Dalton Guth-rie’s infield single down the first-base line.
Then, O’Sullivan was ejected for arguing 
balls and strikes with home plate umpire Jeffrey Macias, leaving Florida without its head coach for the rest of the game.
“That guy had a really quick thumb there to 
get him out of there,” Weitzel said. “I stand right next to Sully. He didn’t entirely say too much.”
Meanwhile, UF starting pitcher Alex Faedo stayed composed after O'Sullivan's ejection.
The Tampa native breezed through the 
Wildcats until the sixth inning.After a hit-by-pitch, UK second baseman 
Luke Becker laced an RBI double off Faedo to get Kentucky (17-6, 4-2 SEC) on the board. Two batters later, Becker raced home from second on Mahan’s infield single up the middle to narrow Florida’s lead to 3-2.
Faedo, who was replaced on the mound by 
Kirby Snead in the sixth inning, struck out eight over 5.2 innings, allowing two runs.
In the seventh, the Wildcats evened the 
score after a couple miscues from UF relief pitcher Shaun Anderson.
Kentucky’s Evan White led off with a single 
and advanced to second on a failed pickoff at-tempt when Anderson threw a ball wide of first 
baseman Peter Alonso. White then advanced to 
third on a groundout and scored on an Ander-son wild pitch.
The score remained tied at 3-3 until the 10th 
inning, when Florida took a one-run lead before Kentucky won on Singer’s walk-off wild pitch. 
Weitzel said despite the tough loss, the 
Gators need to turn their attention to Tuesday’s contest against No. 12 Florida State, which 
starts at 6 p.m. in Jacksonville.
“Feelings don’t matter right now,” he said. 
“No one cares if you don’t feel good. We play 
the Seminoles on Tuesday and we’ll be looking forward to it.”
A radio broadcast contributed to this report.
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Alex Faedo pitches during Florida's 7-5 win against Missouri on March 20 at 
McKethan Stadium. 
AP Photo
Florida's Caeleb Dressel reacts after winning the 100-yard freestyle at the NCAA men's swimming and diving championships on March 26 in Atlanta.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Alfredo Perez returns a serve during Florida's 6-1 win over Troy on Jan. 17 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
Florida has won its 
last five matchesBASEBALL,  from pg 13O'Sullivan was ejected in the third inning for arguing balls and strikes
COLUMN,  from pg 13MEN'S TENNIS,  from pg13MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
Before the NCAA Champion-
ships began, sophomore Caeleb 
Dressel was already Florida’s big-gest winner this season.
“In meets like (the NCAA Cham-
pionship) you’ve always got to shoot to win. That way if you fall a little short, you still find some suc-cess,” coach Gregg Troy said in a 
release.
But Dressel, a second-year 
swimmer from Green Cove Springs, 
has taken that wisdom to heart all season long. Going into the NCAA meet, he already had 40 victories on the year, including three indi-
vidual wins in the SEC Champion-
ship meet. 
So when it was time for Dressel 
to compete in the NCAAs for the second time in his collegiate career, his mindset was simple: swim for the win. 
While Florida’s men’s swim-
ming and diving team fell about 
200 points short of claiming its third 
overall national championship and had to settle for a third-place, Dres-sel left with two individual victories and seven top-five finishes.
Dressel’s first individual race of 
the meet came Thursday night in the 50-yard freestyle. 
After setting the NCAA and 
American record at the SEC Cham-pionships with a time of 18.23 sec-onds back in February, Dressel was the pre-race favorite to repeat as national champion. 
After building  a 0.41-second 
lead over the field in the first 25 yards, the real question was just how fast the sophomore could go. 
Ultimately, Dressel broke his previous record with a time of 18.20. 
In the 100-yard butterfly on Fri-
day, Dressel nearly captured his second individual national champi-onship of the meet.
 Despite swimming a time of 44.40 seconds, Dressel was out-done by Texas’ Joseph Schooling, who swam an NCAA and American 
record 44.01-second time. 
Dressel also competed in four 
of Florida’s five relay events in At-
lanta. 
While they were unable to claim 
any relay victories, the Gators fin-ished in the top five in all five races, including a third-place in Saturday night’s 400-yard freestyle relay. 
Prior to Saturday night’s relay, 
Dressel competed in his final indi-
vidual event of the meet: the 100-
yard freestyle. 
After finishing second to the 
defending national champion, NC State’s Simonas Bilis, by 0.14 sec-onds in Saturday’s preliminary round, the odds were stacked against Dressel early. 
But when it was time for the 
final round on Saturday evening, Dressel saved his best performance for the biggest stage. 
Defeating Bilis by 0.72 seconds, 
as well as smashing the NCAA  and U.S. Open record by 0.30 seconds, Dressel put his exclamation mark on the week by winning his second individual championship with a fi-
nal time of 40.46. 
Between Wednesday and Satur-
day night’s events, the Gators cap-
tured 37 total All-America honors and 11 top-five finishes in Atlanta.
The Gators’ third-place finish 
marked the 17th consecutive sea-son that the team has finished in the top-10 at the NCAAs. 
It also matches the best finish 
the Gators have had in the NCAAs since Troy took over the coaching duties on the men’s side.
“In meets like this, you’ve got 
to rely on mental strength, team-mates, friends, and families,” Dres-sel said in a release. 
“We got a complete team effort 
this week and it made our success so much more enjoyable.”
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.orgDressel wins two national championships at NCAAs
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Caeleb Dressel touches the wall at the end of his leg of the 400-meter freestyle relay during Florida’s 
meet against Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O’Connell Center.
WEEKEND ROUNDUP
Staff Report
Jim McElwain is getting a raise.
The second-year UF coach is getting a 
$750,000 increase in his salary, bumping his annual pay from $3.5 million to $4.25 million and making him the highest-paid coach in the 
Southeastern Conference East Division, the 
school announced on Friday. 
The raise went into effect on Feb. 1, tacked 
onto the six-year deal that still runs through 2020.
In his first year, McElwain led the Gators to 
a 10-4 record and the school’s first appearance 
in the Southeastern Conference Championship 
Game since 2008, although the decision to give him a raise wasn’t based upon reaching that benchmark.
“We recognized early in Coach Mac’s ten-
ure that he totally changed the vibe around football for The Gator Nation and in the build-ing,” athletics director Jeremy Foley said in a release. “Dr. Fuchs and I first talked about this 
in mid-October — we didn’t want to make it 
about winning one game or advancing to the SEC Championship Game.
“We wanted to make a change because of 
the direction of the program and his leader-ship.”
With the raise, McElwain becomes the ninth 
SEC coach to have a salary of at least $4 mil-lion a year, joining Arkansas’ Bret Bielema, Ole Miss’ Hugh Freeze, Tennessee’s Butch Jones, Auburn’s Gus Malzahn, LSU’s Les Miles, Mis-
sissippi State’s Dan Mullen, Alabama’s Nick 
Saban and Texas A&M’s Kevin Sumlin.
Softball sweeps LSUNo. 1 Florida (33-1, 8-1 Southeastern Con-
ference) defeated No. 7 LSU (26-8, 3-6 SEC) 6-2 on Saturday, marking the first time Florida has opened its conference schedule with three consecutive series victories since 2013. UF took 
both games in Friday’s doubleheader 3-0 and 
3-0 (nine innings) to open the series.
Freshman Kelly Barnhill (11-0) turned in an-other effective performance on Saturday, allow-ing just five hits and two unearned runs over 6.2 innings while striking out seven. 
Sophomore Aleshia Ocasio relieved Barn-
hill and recorded the final out, cementing the Gators’ victory and earning her fourth save of the year.
While the Gators hit a paltry .207 in its three weekend games against the Tigers, its pitching staff didn’t give up an earned run and struck out 24 batters.
Senior sprinter ties program recordShayla Sanders highlighted a group of 11 
UF track and field athletes who took first place on the final day of the Cardinal and Gold Chal-
lenge at the University of Southern California 
on Saturday.
Sanders, a senior sprinter, tied Florida’s 
school record in the 100-meter dash with a time of 11.13 seconds.
Darrielle McQueen (long jump), Claudia 
Francis (400-meter hurdles), Jayla Bostic (ham-mer throw), Anders Eriksson (hammer throw) and the women’s 4x400 meter relay team also 
cracked UF’s all-time outdoor top-10 on the 
weekend.
Lacrosse overpowers Vandy in confer-
ence opener
The No. 2 Florida Lacrosse team went on an 
offensive frenzy Saturday to open up Big East conference play.
A season-high 37 shots and season-high 29 
shots on goal gave the Gators (10-1, 1-0 Big 
East) more than enough opportunities to put 
away Vanderbilt (4-6, 0-1 Big East) at Donald R. Dizney Stadium, 16-2.
UF coach Amanda O’Leary said that the shot 
volume Saturday was reflective of the work her team put in during the week, in response to last weekend’s 14-4 loss to top-ranked Maryland. In that game, the Gators were only able to put up 16 shots, including just five in the second half.
Fifth-year senior Nicole Graziano led the 
scoring effort for UF, tacking on five goals to extend her season total to a team-high 24 goals.Florida gives McElwain raise, softball sweeps No. 7 LSU
Luis T orres / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain looks on during UF’s Pro Day on March 22 inside Flori-
da’s indoor practice facility.
Florida finished in third place16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2016
HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales InternSales Representative
Resume builderGain sales experience
Learn prospecting skills
Personalized classroom training
First-hand sales experienceFlexible schedule
No weekends
Minimum 10-hour work weekImprove communication skillsImprove communication skills
Email resume to Ms. Jordan Thurn at
intern@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Summer 2016
Email resume to Shaun O’Connor at
soconnor@alligator.org
*Must be enrolled in summer classes at UF or Santa Fe to applyThis Week in UF Sports
Tuesday
 Baseball vs. Florida State, 6 p.m. in Jacksonville
Thursday
 Women’s T ennis vs. LSU, 5 p.m.
 Track and Field - Pepsi Florida Relays
Friday
 Men’s T ennis vs. Vanderbilt, 5 p.m.
 Softball vs. Alabama, 6 p.m. on SEC Network+
 Baseball vs. T exas A&M, 7 p.m., SEC Network+
 Women’s Golf @ Clemson Invitational
 Track and Field - Pepsi Florida Relays, 
 SEC Network+
Saturday
 Lacrosse vs. T emple, noon
 Women’s T ennis vs. T exas A&M, 1 p.m.
 Softball vs. Alabama, 3:30 p.m. on ESPN2
 Gymnastics @ NCAA Minneapolis Regional 
 Championships, 5 p.m.
 Baseball vs. T exas A&M, 7:30 p.m., ESPNU
 Men’s Golf @ Mason Rudolph Championship
 Track and Field - Pepsi Florida Relays, 
 SEC Network+ Women’s Golf @ Clemson InvitationalJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
NO. 1 FOR NOW
The Gators huddle prior to their 4-3 win over Missouri on March 18. No. 1 Florida will face No. 12 
Florida State on Tuesday in Jacksonville and No.  2 T exas A&M in a three-game series starting  April 1.
