By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Four-time Grammy nominee Hunter Hayes 
jumped up and down as he played a blue electric 
guitar at his concert Wednesday night.
The country singer performed for more than 
1,000 UF students and Gainesville residents at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center. Cassadee Pope, 
the winner of season three of “The Voice,” and 
Steve Everett opened the show. Pope and Hayes 
were paid a combined $101,500.
High-pitched screams from girls pressed up 
against security barriers could be heard as Hayes 
winked at the crowd and said, “Jump for me, 
Gainesville.”He opened with “Tattoo,” and played other 
songs, including “Storm Warning” and “Story -
line.”
Boys, girls and fans of all ages sang the lyrics 
and danced along as Hayes bent over during each 
song to play a solo on his guitar.We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 120 THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016
Kelly Barnhill struck out 18 
batters in win
She tied a UF record,  pg. 19 
St. Patty’s Day in Gainesville
Music, beer, cheer and a roundup of deals, pg. 3
Matheson Museum extends popular exhibit
It features Florida’s Black Heritage Trail and will be on display 
until March 25,  pg. 5Check out the Avenue
Mediocre advice,  St. Patrick’s Day-themed 
drinking game, Big Orange Festival music 
roundup and more, pgs. 8-12
Hayes, Pope play at O’Connell Center
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Hunter Hayes performs at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Wednesday night, opening with his song “T attoo. ”
IT SOLD OUT IN LESS THAN 
AN HOUR AND A HALF.
By Briana White
Alligator Contributing Writer
In an hour and 20 minutes, 
TEDxUF 2016 sold out Wednesday 
night.
The 1,500 free tickets avail -
able for the annual event, in which 
speakers give talks to inspire and 
educate others about various topics, 
went on sale at 6 p.m. Last year, 
the event sold out in two hours. 
The conference’s budget was about 
$40,000.
Those who received tickets must 
claim them between 3 p.m. and 
4:30 p.m on March 25. 
Unclaimed tickets will then be 
available on a first-come, first-
served basis at the Phillips Center 
for the Performing Arts’ Box Office 
after 4:30 p.m. 
The theme for the event, held at 
the Phillips Center, will be identity, 
said Kristia Watkins, the public rela -
tions coordinator of the event.
About 10 speakers, including a 
UF student and an NFL player, will 
discuss topics such as genetics, so -
cial media, politics and biology, she 
said.
Caroline Nickerson, a 21-year-
old UF history and East Asian lan -
guages and literature junior, said 
she went online at 7 p.m. to secure 
her spot.
She said she felt relieved to have 
a ticket.
“I felt excited and lucky because 
shortly after they posted online that 
they were sold out,” she said.
Nickerson said she’s excited to 
attend the event for a second time.
“I’m obsessed with TED talks, 
and the UF TED team does a phe -
nomenal job,” she said. “They are 
of the same caliber of all the TED 
talks on the Internet.”Annual 
speaker 
event 
TEDxUF 
sells out
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
“CONGRATS to the EduGator 
Nation!!” Glenn Good, the dean of 
the College of Education, wrote in 
an email Tuesday afternoon.
Norman Hall received $14.1 
million from the Florida Legisla -
ture to renovate the building after 
Gov. Rick Scott released his 2016-
2017 budget veto list Tuesday. 
Norman Hall’s request wasn’t on 
that list.
The money covers more than 
half of the $24.4 million needed to renovate the building, Good said. 
For the 2015 budget request last 
summer, Scott vetoed $8 million 
for Norman Hall repairs.
Maddie McClinton, a former 
UF student senator for the College 
of Education, said she traveled to 
Tallahassee to lobby for money for 
Norman Hall after Scott vetoed it.
She heard rumors that Scott 
planned to sign it, but the an -
nouncement was a relief, the 
21-year-old said.
“Education is not always the 
most talked about,” the UF ele -
mentary education senior said. “It is growing and changing, and the 
field of education is still as impor -
tant as everything else.”
Matthew Hoeck, the Student 
Government director of external 
affairs, said he printed Scott’s veto 
list and the external affairs team scoured through it, looking for 
Norman Hall.
While lobbying, SG told legis -
lators about asbestos, mold and 
flooding in the building built in 
the 1930s.
“We had members of (the Flor -
ida Legislature) saying, ‘Wow, 
this was in bad shape’ when we 
were there,” Hoeck said. “We’re 
glad to see those talks were pro -
ductive and our lobbying was suc -
cessful.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.orgNorman Hall receives money for renovationsSEE CONCERT,  PAGE 4
“Education is not always 
the most talked about. It is 
growing and changing, and 
the field of education is still as 
important as everything else.”
Maddie McClinton
UF elementary education seniorCAMPUSSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Friday Program at Krishna 
House
Come and attend this week’s Friday Program at Krishna House to learn about “Spiritual 
Friendship.” 
The program starts at 7 p.m with Mantra Meditation, fol-lowed by an Ice Breaker Session and Talk on the Topic. Dinner will be served at 8:15 p.m. Make every week complete with eternal knowledge by attending Friday programs at Krishna House. No registra-tion required! Come directly at 7 p.m. Please join us at the Krishna House, situated at 214 
NW 14th St.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in 
the paper. 
Press releases will not appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 120
HIGH  82° LOW  63°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Though she only has distant rela-
tives who live in Ireland, Allie Gerace 
feels connected to St. Patrick’s Day.
“I feel like by celebrating it, I’m 
connecting with that lost part of my 
heritage,” the 21-year-old UF biology 
senior said.
Gerace said she will celebrate at 
First Magnitude Brewing Company’s ﬁ  rst-ever St. Patrick’s Day celebra-tion.
The event takes place from 4 p.m. 
to 10 p.m. at 1220 SE Veitch St., said Lane Abraben, the event coordina-tor.
Abraben said the planned festivi-
ties include Irish beers and food, a costume contest and a performance 
by The Dozenaires, a Gainesville 
band. 
The menu will include more than 
20 beers, including an Irish Red Ale and Time Out Irish Stout, he said. The Off the Griddle food truck will serve dishes such as corned beef and cabbage.“The Irish Red we’ve never made 
before,” Abraben said, “but typically they are light to medium body beers and kind of mildly hoppy.”
Kurt Renner, a 22-year-old UF 
chemical engineering senior, said his goal for Thursday is to make memo-ries.
“I’m just hoping to drink a fair 
amount with my friends and meet some new people,” he said. 
- Sara MarinoSt. Patty’s Day in Gainesville
The Historic Thomas Center will 
host visitors for Irish food and music 
tonight.
Hanneke Cassel and Mike Block 
will play Scottish Americana music on a ﬁ  ddle and cello, and Sarah Ing-ley will perform her award-winning 
dances, said Joseph Saccocci, the 
vice president of the Shakerag Cul-ture Center.
He said Cassel is the 1997 U.S. 
National Scottish Fiddle Champion and Mike Block is a member of Yo-Yo Ma’s Silk Road Ensemble.
Cassel is the duo’s ﬁ  ddler, and 
she said the band has never per-formed in Gainesville.
“I love to perform,” she said. “I 
think that’s one of my most favorite 
parts.”
Vendors will serve food, but any-
one who wants to drink alcohol must 
bring their own wine or beer, said Russell Etling, the cultural affairs manager for the Thomas Center.
“We thought it was a perfect way 
to celebrate this special holiday,” he 
said.
Tickets are available for $20 at 
the event, Etling said. They can only 
be purchased with cash or checks.
“We just invite people to come 
and have a great time and wear a little bit of green,” he said.
- Mary-Lou WatkinsonMusic, beer and cheer
Historic Irish celebration
St. Patrick’s Day Deals
Dough Religion Pizza 
and Oozoo Bar
1404 W. University Ave., 
Suites 20 and 30
$2 Green Beer
$2 Shamrock Shots$4 Guinnesses$4 Jameson shots
Market Street Pub
112 SW First Ave.
$5.99 corned beef and cabbage bowls with potatoes until supplies run outKaraoke from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m.Pyramid will perform Irish and Celtic music from 11 p.m. to close
Durty Nelly’s Irish Pub
208 W. University Ave.
$10 for a plate of corned beef, cabbage, potatoes and a dessertIrish band at 5 p.m. and Irish dancing
Sweet Mel’s
1 W. University Ave.
$8.99 Luck of the Irish nachos$2 Green Beers$2 Single Wells$4 Doubles4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016
By Daniel Smithson
Alligator Contributing Writer
A 12-foot-long plywood wall 
reading “Peace, Art, Israel,” greeted 
students on the Plaza of the Ameri -
cas on Wednesday.
This Is Israel, a pro-Israel UF 
club, held its first “Artists 4 Israel” 
event from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Students wrote messages, includ -
ing “Peace for Israel,” on the back of 
the plywood wall to promote peace 
and teach students about Israel.
Two internationally recognized 
graffiti artists, Yenia Jaramillo and 
Leon Rainbow, painted a pro-Israel 
mural on the front of the wall.
The artists also spray painted T-
shirts for students to wear.  Students 
chose designs for their shirts, includ -
ing blue and white peace signs.
Johana Wiznitzer, a co-organizer 
of the event, said the group wanted 
to show that Israel is a peaceful 
country.
“We hoped this event can open up students’ curiosity to learn more 
about Israel and see that it’s a demo -
cratic country just like ours,” the UF 
public relations and political science 
sophomore said.
The 20-year-old said she worked 
with UF and national Jewish orga -
nizations, including Hillel and the 
Jewish Student Union, since the be -
ginning of the semester to put on the 
event.
Nathalie Jaramillo, a UF health 
science freshman, said she thinks art 
is a great way to encourage peace.
“I think it’s really powerful that 
they’re doing this through art,” the 
18-year-old said. “Art is universal 
and makes it easy to spread a mes -
sage.”Students write peaceful 
messages on Plaza
WHAT STUDENTS WROTE
• “Peace”
• “1 People”
• “Shalom”
• “Believe”
• “Love”Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
COLORFUL EXPRESSIONS
Suzanne Wong, a 21-year-old UF civil engineering junior, paints on a T-shirt outside the Reitz Union. 
UF’s Pride Student Union hosted its annual “Paint Your Orgasm” event on Wednesday where stu -
dents could paint one of 500 T-shirts as part of the club’s Pride Awareness Month.
Gabrielle Crescenzi and Jenny Vu were 
among the crowd fawning over Hayes.
They both held dinner-plate-sized pictures 
of Hayes’ dog, Cole, and waved them back 
and forth, hoping to get the singer’s attention.
“It’s his birthday today,” Crescenzi, 17, 
said of the retired racing greyhound.
Both Crescenzi and Vu are from Mel -
bourne, Florida, and are skipping school to -
day so they could see the show.
“We stood in the rain and saw him in Or -
lando,” Vu, 18, said. “It was so worth it.”
After that concert, they looked online for 
more shows and found the one in Gainesville. 
They said they bought tickets in February.
“We love his music, and we’re also in love 
with him,” Crescenzi said.
Pope sang songs from her most recent al -
bum and played covers like “This One’s for 
the Girls” by Martina McBride. The West 
Palm, Florida, native greeted the audience 
with, “How ya feeling, Gainesville?”
“I have a bunch of friends who came here 
after high school,” she said. “I’m that girl who 
didn’t go to college, but I guess it worked out 
OK.”
One of those friends was 21-year-old UF 
animal science senior Alexa Penalta. She and 
her mom stood waiting for Pope’s meet-and-
greet before the show. Penalta said she’s also 
from South Florida and is a family friend of 
Pope’s.
“We went to school together and took 
singing lessons together when we were little,” 
she said. “I had to come see her.”
Tickets to the show were free but didn’t 
sell out, said Ilana Sperling, the director of 
media relations for Student Government Pro -
ductions. Sperling said there were about 150 
tickets left over.
“Wiz Khalifa tickets cost money for stu -
dents,” she said. “These didn’t. Also, this is 
a Southern school and a country concert, so 
I’m surprised.”
@mollyidonovan 
mdonovan@alligator.orgCONCERT,  from pg 1More than 1,000 students and locals attended
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama 
nominated Appeals Court Judge Merrick Gar -
land to the Supreme Court on Wednesday, 
thrusting a respected moderate jurist and for -
mer prosecutor into the center of an election-
year clash over the future of the nation’s high -
est court.
Obama cast the 63-year-old Garland as “a 
serious man and an exemplary judge” deserv -
ing of a full hearing and a Senate confirmation 
vote, despite Republican vows to deny him 
both. Standing in the White House Rose Gar -
den with Garland, Obama argued the integrity 
of the court was at stake and appealed to the 
Senate to “play it straight” in filling the seat left 
vacant by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia.
“It’s supposed to be above politics,” Obama 
said of the high court. “It has to be. And it 
should stay that way.”
Republican leaders, however, held to their 
refusal to consider any nominee, saying the 
seat should be filled by the next president af -
ter this year’s election. Senate Majority Leader 
Mitch McConnell spoke with Garland by phone 
but did not change his position. 
“The American people will have a voice,” 
he said.
A spokesman said McConnell would not be 
holding a perfunctory meeting, but the Senate 
majority leader wished Judge Garland well.
Others in the GOP ranks were less wedded 
to the no-hearing, no-vote, not-even-a-meeting 
stance — a sign that Republicans are aware the 
strategy could leave them branded as obstruc -
tionist.Obama 
nominates 
Garland to 
Supreme Court
CAMPUS
Cassadee Pope opens for Hunter Hayes at the free Student Government Pro -
ductions concert in the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Wednesday night. 
The country singer announced at the performance she would be performing 
at the 51st Academy of Country Music Awards, along with Chris Young.
Emma Green / Alligator StaffTHURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
FOSTER PUPPY
Meagan Iamartino, a 19-year-old English freshman, hugs Erie, a 
6-week-old terrier mix, on the Plaza of the Americas as Nikki Picon, an 18-year-old UF pre-nursing freshman, looks on. Erie is a foster puppy from the Alachua County Humane Society.
Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffTHE EXHIBIT FEATURES 
FLORIDA’S BLACK HERITAGE 
TRAIL AND WILL BE ON DISPLAY
 UNTIL MARCH 25.
By Anthony Nicotera
Alligator Contributing Writer
A display that examines national and lo-
cal African-American history will stay in 
Gainesville longer than expected.
The Matheson History Museum, situated at 
513 E. University Ave., decided to extend its exhibit after it gained unforeseen popularity, Rebecca Fitzsimmons, the museum’s curator 
and archivist, said.
“Long Road to Freedom: The Florida Black 
Heritage Trail” will remain at the museum un-
til March 25, she said.
The exhibition features Florida’s Black Her-
itage Trail, a collection of sites, buildings and objects that highlight the African-American community’s struggles and contributions.
An anonymous Gainesville family donated 
two sweat-stained Ku Klux Klan robes to the collection of artifacts, Fitzsimmons said.
Along with the Black Heritage Trail, the 
exhibit also explores events such as the New-berry Six lynchings and the Rosewood mas-
sacre, she said.
Fitzsimmons said the exhibit helps visitors 
connect with the past and visualize the future.
“This exhibition has been the catalyst for 
fantastic interactions and conversations,” 
Fitzsimmons said.
Carolyn Sinclair, 67, felt nostalgic after 
watching the museum’s video about Silver Springs State Park on Tuesday.  
“It was still segregated when I was there, 
and people were looking at how much fun us ‘colored’ people — as they called us — had, even though we were by ourselves,” Sinclair 
said.  Matheson History Museum 
extends popular exhibitLOCALThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The biggest and best investment of my life
A college degree is expensive. For me, 
it has been the biggest investment of my life.
As an undergraduate, I attended 
Duke University, which had relative-
ly high tuition, and I received no ﬁ  nancial aid.  After four years, I had today’s equivalent of 
nearly $40,000 in college loans. 
In addition to loans, throughout my 12 
years of undergraduate and graduate studies, 
I worked as a dishwasher, a construction laborer, a se-curity guard and a graduate assistant.
For me, the expense of college has not only been my 
biggest investment but also my best investment. 
I have beneﬁ  ted from the education and degrees I 
obtained from my years of study. Also, the universities 
I attended used my tuition money to become stronger 
and better.
My degree from Duke today is much more valuable 
than it was when I graduated, because the reputation and stature of the university have increased dramatical-
ly in the past 40 years. The money I earned or borrowed 
for tuition and fees was the best possible investment I could have made in both myself and in the university.
This week, our elected ofﬁ  cials ﬁ  nalized the state 
budget. I am so very grateful Florida’s leaders value UF and have again provided additional funds for facilities, recruiting faculty and operations. 
As a result of the state’s investment in UF and in 
contrast to almost all of our peers, we will not have a 
tuition increase next year.
We compare ourselves to our top-33 peer (competi-
tor) public universities, all in other states. We are proud 
that our in-state tuition is the lowest in that group. The 
next-lowest tuition, at Iowa State University, is 20 per-
cent higher than UF’s. Almost all of our true peers, including the University of Michigan, the University of Virginia and the University of California, Berkeley, have in-state tuition that 
is more than twice as much as UF’s. 
Our aspiration is for UF to be among the 
nation’s very best public universities. In or-
der to achieve that aspiration, we must have 
a faculty-to-student ratio that is competitive 
with the best. We must provide compensation for our faculty and staff. We must provide sti-
pends for our graduate assistants equal to the nation’s very best universities.
In summary, we must ﬁ  nd additional revenues to in-
vest more in our faculty and graduate assistants.
We also are committed to being among the nation’s 
most affordable universities for students and families, 
including those with ﬁ  nancial need. Therefore, we must 
also ﬁ  nd additional revenues to invest more in need-based aid.
UF will soon publicly launch a $3 billion fundrais-
ing campaign that will create endowments for faculty 
professorships, graduate-student fellowships and need-
based aid for undergraduates. 
We will partner with our state-elected and appointed 
ofﬁ  cials to increase the state investment in UF and to 
improve return-on-investment. We will also work to re-
duce unnecessary expenses.
Finally, we will be exceptionally good stewards of 
the tuition funds we receive. If college is the biggest investment of your life, as it was for me, I am conﬁ  dent 
you will ﬁ  nd that your investment in UF is also the best 
of your life. The valuable diploma you receive at com-mencement will be worth even more in the future than it is today.
Kent Fuchs is the president of UF. His columns ap-
pear monthly.In honor of a 
Tampa deputy, hero
We at the Alligator would like to dedicate this edito-rial to Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce Depu-ty John Robert Kotﬁ  la Jr. 
Early Saturday morning, the deputy sacriﬁ  ced 
himself by driving his patrol car straight between 
what would have been a wrong-way crash on westbound 
Lee Roy Selmon Expressway. He saved driver Sarah Geren 
and her boyfriend from a wrong-way driver barreling east-
bound straight toward them. A few of our staffers are from the Tampa area, so this incident and Kotﬁ  la’s death hit very 
close to home.
We could never say enough to overstate this man’s brav-
ery. As human beings, the core aspects of our character are 
measured by our reactions to high-pressure, ﬁ  ght-or-ﬂ  ight 
situations. As Geren told reporters, Kotﬁ  la had no more than a few seconds to analyze what was happening and decide how best to respond. We at the Alligator are truly 
stunned and moved by Kotﬁ  la’s character and willingness 
to sacriﬁ  ce himself for complete strangers in the utter blink of an eye.
Even when those close to Kotﬁ  la received news of his 
response, they admittedly felt little surprise; that’s just the 
kind of man he was. 
Furthermore, he’ll also be remembered as a founding 
member of the SafetyNet team, a program designed to help locate special-needs adults and children who’ve wandered 
from home. The terms “hero,” “inspiration” and “role mod-el” are thrown around pretty often, but we feel this man has earned each of these titles and the utmost respect. In times 
of strife and frustration, the actions and integrity of people 
like Kotﬁ  la are enough to restore one’s faith in humanity.
Unfortunately, these wrong-way crashes responsible for 
Kotﬁ  la’s death occur more frequently than one would pre-sume. Fellow Tampanians may remember back in Febru-
ary 2014 when four students from the University of South 
Florida died on impact from a wrong-way crash on Inter-state 275. Last year alone, more than 100 Floridians died in wrong-way crashes. 
Preventative measures are being taken to curtail the 
number of injuries and deaths from these incidents, such as the introduction of new radar-detector, light-ﬂ  ashing wrong way signs, which as of August 2015, successfully prevented six wrong-way drivers from further entering highways. But 
unfortunately, as HCSO reported, all wrong-way signs and 
signals were running properly at the time of the crash that took Kotﬁ  la’s life.
Moreover, in an age when issues such as police-com-
munity relations remain in the back of our minds, it’s a true honor to witness and be reminded of such brave civil servants who ﬁ  ght diligently for the safety of their commu-
nities, showing full well what it means to serve and protect 
the public, no matter the consequences.
All of us Alligator staffers offer our deepest condolences 
to the friends and family of Deputy Kotﬁ  la and to the loved ones of so many other victims to wrong-way crashes. In 
these times of grief, we hold our loved ones close and let the 
courage and humanity displayed by everyday heroes like Deputy Kotﬁ  la resonate in our own lives. Rest in peace.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Until this election cycle, 
populism, the strategy to appeal to the general 
population, was a term 
mostly directed to the 
dusty bookshelves of American history or parties only pres-
ent in European politics, like 
Podemos. 
As of this election, though, 
that changed dramatically. 
This presidential election cycle has 
been historic in both the number of out-
siders and these outsiders’ prominence in the race. 
Not since the period of William Jen-
nings Bryan have we witnessed this kind 
of prominence from outsider candidates 
in an election.
While this is undoubtedly both in-
teresting and effective in getting people 
involved in the political process, popu-
lism should not be considered an entirely 
good-willed cause. 
Political understanding and literacy is 
not something that can be bragged about 
in most parts of the world, and the U.S. 
should not be an exception.
This is in no way a condemnation to 
people who don’t go to bed with a copy of the Constitution under their pillow; it is 
just how the world is. 
People typically take cues of how to 
vote from trusted sources in their lives 
and perceptions they have of the world 
around them. 
But energizing the voter base to go out 
and vote brings issues as well.
When a candidate bases policy on the 
general population, misperceptions and prejudices can begin to show during the 
campaign. 
While these unsavory parts of society 
are always present, a candidate could 
stoke the flames of prejudice in order to 
help with his or her election bid.
But populists have a lot of problems 
here in the U.S. because of the two-party system endemic to our government. 
Donald Trump, Bernie Sanders and 
Ted Cruz all rely on a party structure, re-gardless of where their loyalties may very well lie. And the thing is, political 
parties build their elections in a way that makes an uphill battle 
for populists. 
A perfect example of this is 
the superdelegates in the Demo-
cratic side, who vote on their 
preferred candidate at the July 
convention.
Even if a populist candidate 
wins a party’s primary and the general election, the issue of getting anything 
done still remains. 
Candidates for Congress usually hold  
— or at least claim to hold — similar poli-
cies to those of the president in order to 
ride the proverbial coattails and get win 
elections, sometimes even in districts nor-mally loyal to the other party. 
This allows for an environment where 
the president-elect can work well with 
Congress, because most of them are on 
the same party.
This works well for establishment can-
didates, but for candidates like Sen. Ber-
nie Sanders, I-Vt., who is unique in his 
political thought, it will be difficult for the Democrats to find candidates for Con-gress similar to him. 
Few politicians, with the exception 
of Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Ma., share Sanders’ views. 
This means Sanders would have to 
put in a lot of work to get the Democratic 
Party to go along with certain policies he 
wishes to pass. 
The same could be said for Sen. Ted 
Cruz, R-Tx., who is easily one of the most disliked people in Congress across party 
lines.
Although I don’t see populist candi-
dates making it all the way to the White 
House, it is definitely a trend that should 
be noted. 
There is a clear dissatisfaction not just 
with a single political party, but also with 
the entire system. 
The political parties need to become 
cognizant of this and work to combat this feeling.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Thurs-
days.The major problem with populismColumn
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.orgMarco Rubio: The 
GOP’s golden boy, the Republican pride 
of the Sunshine State, 
the Florida-born mas-
ter of politics, carefully set up by those before him to lead a 
new generation.
It’s such a shame he chose to 
run for president the same year 
Donald Trump did.
But do not fret, fellow Florida Republi-
cans and conservatives, for this is not the end of Rubio, but instead just the begin-ning. 
The 44-year-old Miami native and UF 
alumnus has just started to dig his pearly whites into the real meat of the political world. 
Gone are the days of Rubio taking on 
the “backstage” roles of government — 
State House, Senate, etc. — working in the 
shadows of Washington, D.C. and trudg-ing through the political machine. 
After gaining national and worldwide 
attention from this absurd and disturb-ingly fascinating election year, I see the senator taking on nothing but bigger and better roles in government.
Why? Because I believe Rubio is going 
to be president one day. 
He may have failed this time ‘round, 
but considering the support he’s garnered at such a young age — 44 is young in poli-
tician years — with such limited experi-
ence, I cannot imagine him not making more Oval Ofﬁ  ce runs in the future. Once he gets some real leadership experience under his belt, we might have something 
here.
Now that he’s ended his campaign, I 
think he will run for Florida governor. It 
makes too much sense. 
He’s not going to want to return to 
passing bills in the Senate chamber, but he is instead going to set his gaze on the Florida Governor’s Mansion in Tallahas-see. 
I think winning governor for him 
would be a breeze, and Florida’s boy will get the chance to run the state that made him who he is.
Though don’t be fooled into thinking he would only be doing this out of love for Florida or “giving back” to his home state. No. 
The entire purpose of a Rubio 
run for Florida governor would be to stuff his resume. Even if he didn’t accomplish much as 
governor, the four-year term 
would nonetheless be another bullet point on the C.V. for com-
mander in chief. 
And as a Florida resident and fan of Ru-
bio, I am completely OK with that.
Rubio’s shortcomings in this election 
have revealed a chasm forming down the center of the Republican Party. 
You can thank the political A-bomb 
known as Donald J. Trump for this chasm in the gaping, growing divide in the GOP.
When Trump announced his run in 
June, I was working in France for a tour 
company that catered to buses full of 
American tourists on a daily basis. 
At the time, it appeared all Americans, 
on both sides of the aisle, viewed Trump’s 
announcement as wildly entertaining and 
just what American politics needed: an outsider, non-politician to come in and get to work.
Little did we know, Trump would be 
the initial catalyst in the ultimate demise of the Republican Party. He would change American politics forever.
Even though both candidates aligned 
with the GOP, Trump and Rubio represent two very different groups of people, with Rubio holding down the “establishment” and Trump bringing to life the “anti-estab-lishment” folk. 
And, clearly, this divide failed to serve 
Rubio well in Tuesday’s Florida primaries, with Trump’s victory causing Rubio to drop from the race.
This upcoming election season may 
bring an end to the Republican Party as we know it, but it will not be the last we see of Sen. Rubio. 
He is too intelligent, too quick on his 
feet and too skilled of a politician to sim-ply fade into the shadows after this tumul-tuous political season.
Andrew Hall is a UF ﬁ  nance sopho-
more. His column appears on Thursdays.This is not the end of Marco RubioColumn
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Guide to Big Orange Festival 
Check out the Avenue’s suggestions, pg 10.What’s inside: 
St. Patrick’s Day in Gainesville, pg 9.
St. Patrick’s Day drinking game, pg 12.THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Cecilia Lemus
Avenue Writer
UF’s Shakespeare in the Park club 
is providing another year of free out-
door Shakespearean entertainment 
to campus.
“Twelfth Night,” a classic Wil-
liam Shakespeare play about mistak-
en identity and romantic confusion, 
is the club’s mainstage performance 
and its largest production of the year.
The play will stay true to the plot 
and themes, Adam Walker, a UF English senior, said. 
“It’s still a ﬁ  ve-act play, and we 
try to keep everything intact; what you see is Shakespeare and nothing added, just a few marginal things,” 
the 23-year-old said. 
Walker has been part of the club 
since his junior year, and he plays 
Sebastian in “Twelfth Night.”
The play has been in the making 
since September, including casting, rehearsals, costumes and set design. Performances will all take place on Plaza of the Americas at 7 p.m. from 
Thursday to Sunday and Sunday at 1 
p.m. Guests are encouraged to bring blankets or chairs.
For the ﬁ  rst time, there will be a 
performance by The Staff, UF’s all-
male a cappella group during inter-
mission.
“I think this is really great, this is 
a good way to work with other or-
ganizations and show our support 
for students also involved,” Walker said.
The setting will draw references 
to student life on campus, tailoring 
the play to life at UF.
“The setting is going to be on 
campus, and the idea is that with 
the costumes, they will portray dif-
ferent groups on campus,” he said. 
“I think there is a hipster group and then the frat guys and frat girls and the preppy guys.”
Shakespeare’s plays are known 
to draw contemporary adaptations, including the 2006 ﬁ  lm “She’s the Man,” based on “Twelfth Night,” and “10 Things I Hate About You,” 
based on “The Taming of the 
Shrew.”
Jordan Bernas, a 22-year-old UF 
English senior, said the costumes are comprised of a lot of baseball caps, 
khaki shorts and boat shoes.
“We make the physical comedy 
over the top so people know what’s going on; even people who have 
never seen Shakespeare can come 
to the production and totally under-
stand what is going on,” Bernas said. It has a lot of themes that students who are in college totally can under-stand.”
Director Alison Sigalow, a 
20-year-old UF elementary educa-tion junior, said Shakespeare’s work has natural elements audiences will 
experience because of the outdoor 
atmosphere.
“Shakespeare was almost always 
performed outside and I feel like that really connects,” she said. You come 
and sit on a blanket, and you come 
and enjoy and it’s really relaxed.”Sigalow emphasized how Shake-
speare is universal, and everyone can ﬁ  nd something they connect to in one of his plays.
“Even though he wrote this play 
500 years ago, it’s still true and rele-
vant and reﬂ  ects what we go through 
as college students,” Sigalow said.
UF club brings Shakespeare comedy to campus
LEFT:
UF Shakespeare in the Park 
club  performs during Viva Europe 2014.
BELOW:
Shakespeare in the Park puts on a mainstage per-formance each year. The T empest was performed in 2014. This year, the club will perform William Shake-speare’s “Twelfth Night. ”
Courtesy to the Alligator
The outdoor show begins at 7 p.m.By Macey Wilson
Avenue Writer
UF’s School of Theatre and 
Dance will address the issues of 
race relations with the opening of the show “Honky” at 7:30 p.m. Fri-day.
The satire provides insight on 
race issues after a violent shoe commercial that relied on stereo-types ends in a real-life tragedy. The story follows how the men in-volved with the commercial handle the issue.
Last Spring, UF put on “Gator 
Tales,” a Gainesville-speciﬁ  c play 
that followed the lives of the ﬁ  rst 
African-American students to at-tend UF. 
Andrew Quimby, a UF theater 
major, plays the role of Peter Tram-mel, the man who wrote the ad.
“Peter is a typical white, male 
yuppie who never had to acknowl-
edge the complicated nature of race 
relations,” Quimby said.
Quimby said his character feels 
guilty for the tragedy and his igno-rance. He tries to make up for it but ends up losing touch with himself as a person.
“He’s just a really honest repre-
sentation of whites in America try-
ing to understand the other side,” 
he said.
Raquelle Wallace, a 19-year 
old acting sophomore, was also in “Gator Tales.” In “Honky,” she plays the reporter.
“In a brief breaking news spot, 
the reporter introduces information that pushes the plot forward and 
affects the other characters,” Wal-lace wrote in an email.
Wallace said her favorite part of 
her character is how she becomes less professional as she realizes 
how absurd the news story is. Wal-lace added that the script is hilari-ous.
Michael Ortiz, a 21-year-old UF  
acting junior, said the show has a good amount of humor in it to bal-ance out the seriousness.
“The audience’s eyes are going 
to open up to the humor,” he said.
The show will take place in the 
Black Box Theatre in the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavil-ion. 
Performances will run through 
March 26. Tickets are $18 for gen-eral public, $15 for faculty and se-niors and $13 for UF students with 
their Gator 1 Cards.THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Courtesy to the Alligator
Judd Johnson (left) and Mia-Jeanne Frattino rehearse their performances for “Honky. ” 
The show starts on Friday at the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion. 
UF debuts play on race relations
THEATREST. PATRICK’S DAY 
IN GAINESVILLE
A successful St. Patrick’s Day must include the following: tra-
ditional Irish food, special entertainment and a whole lot of green beer. Luckily for Gainesville, the citywide celebration has something in every corner of town. Here’s a quick guide for your night out.
If you’re hanging in Midtown…
The Swamp Restaurant will host its 20th annual St. Patrick’s Day 
celebration with planned Irish food, specials on food and drinks and events throughout the holiday.
“We’ve been doing it now for 20 years, since 1994,” said Ryan 
Prodesky, the restaurant’s manager. “We always try to have one of 
the best parties and biggest events on St. Patty’s Day.”
The restaurant will be cooking up corned beef and cabbage, a 
traditional Irish meal. The bar will also serve free beer from 3 p.m. to 
5 p.m., along with other drink specials.
“We’ll have all kinds of St. Patty’s day events happening through-
out the day at the restaurant, so it’s going to be a fun and festive atmosphere,” Prodesky said. “The beer will absolutely be green.”
If you’re going downtown…
First Magnitude Brewing Company will be celebrating the holiday 
with specialty beers and live entertainment, said Lane Abraben, the brewery’s event coordinator.
The brewery, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., will host the event 
from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. with live music from The Dozenaires, who will 
be playing traditional Irish jig and folk music.
The “Off the Griddle” food truck will be parked outside serving 
traditional Irish fare along with its regular menu, Abraben said.
The brewery will be debuting two special release beers on draft 
for the occasion, an Irish Red Ale and its “Time Out” Irish Stout.
“We’ll be doing a beer in what’s called a ﬁ  rkin, which is basically 
an old-school keg that doesn’t run off of CO2,” Abraben said. “It’s 
a gravity-driven keg. Usually they’re served a little warmer and are less carbonated.”
Along with debut beers and entertainment, the brewery will be 
hosting a St. Patrick’s Day costume contest. The winner of the con-test will receive a free 32-ounce growler of either special-release Irish beer.
As far as green beer goes, First Magnitude will not be participat-
ing, Abraben said.
“We might make some green dye available, but we won’t be dy-
ing any of our beers,” he said. “We’re kind of purists, so we’ll leave the dying up to the people.”
If you’re looking for something in between...
Mother’s Pub and Grill, an Irish restaurant situated on University 
Avenue, is debuting an entire St. Patrick’s Day menu for the public. The menu is a mix of traditional and non-traditional Irish food. The menu, which includes drink specials like $3 green beer and $6 Irish Car Bombs, can be viewed at motherspub.com.
If you’re staying in for midterms...
(We feel your pain — here’s something to do on the weekend!)
On Saturday, High Dive will host its third-annual St. Paddy’s Day weekend Food Truck Rally. The food truck rally is free to the public and begins at 5 p.m. It will have more than 12 local and regional food vendors serving St. Patty’s themed food. 
“We have traditional Irish music and drinking songs from St. Au-
gustine’s Jig to a Milestone,”said Pat Lavery, the owner of Glory Days Presents. 
- Lauren FernandezTHURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016
DJ Khaled has become an Internet sen-
sation through his Snapchat and other social media pages, so you may have 
forgotten he’s actually a DJ. Khaled 
has been in the game for over a de-
cade and has become one of the best of in the rap game without actually rapping. DJ Khaled 
is an extremely successful DJ who got his start 
on Miami’s WEDR radio station and eventually released eight studio albums and appears on a number of hit singles. DJ Khaled will be per-forming in the Reitz Union tomorrow night at 
the Big Orange Fest, so here’s a quick roundup 
to get you ready.
Song: “Gold Slugs”
Album: “I Changed A Lot”
While neither the album nor any of the sin-
gles from “I Changed A Lot” charted very well, the album isn’t bad at all. I actually enjoyed “I Changed A Lot,” and I think it has some good 
songs — and “Gold Slugs” is deﬁ  nitely one of 
them. “Gold Slugs” features Chris Brown, Au-gust Alsina and Fetty Wap and is going to be fun to hear when Khaled takes the stage.
Song: “How Many Times”
Album: “I Changed A Lot”
“How Many Times” was one of the more 
successful singles from “I Changed A Lot” hav-ing gone gold and features Chris Brown, Lil 
Wayne and Big Sean. “How Many Times” is 
a great song and taking a listen will get you ready to see DJ Khaled live.
Song: “Hold You Down”
Album: “I Changed A Lot”
“Hold You Down” features Chris Brown, 
August Alsina, Future and Jeremih and might be my favorite song on “I Changed A Lot.” DJ 
Khaled knows what he’s doing by getting all 
the heavy hitters in R&B on one song, and it’s ﬁ  re.
Song: “No New Friends”
Album: “Suffering From Success”
“No New Friends” is a classic DJ Khaled 
song. Drake, Rick Ross and Lil Wayne come together to absolutely kill this track, and we can only hope “No New Friends” ﬁ  nds its way onto Khaled’s setlist.
Song: “I’m On One”Album: “We the Best Forever”Everyone remembers “I’m On One,” the 
song that got played everywhere in 2011. Just like “No New Friends,” “I’m On One” features Drake, Rick Ross and Lil Wayne but is still a banger nonetheless.
Song: “All I Do Is Win”Album: “Victory”“All I Do Is Win” has gone over three times 
platinum and is DJ Khaled’s most successful 
single to date. “All I Do Is Win” is nearly six 
years old but still goes hard today. If this song isn’t played tomorrow night, I’ll never write another article again.
Song: “Cold.1”Album: “Cruel Summer”A song that isn’t on a DJ Khaled album but might get played is Kanye West’s “Cold.1.” While DJ Khaled didn’t contribute to the pro-duction of this song he is still a featured artist. 
Get ready to turn up when this gets played.
Song: “Bugatti Remix”
Album: N/A
DJ Khaled appears on the remix of Ace 
Hood’s hit single “Bugatti,” which gives us 
a good chance of hearing it tomorrow night. Hopefully the remixed version of “Bugatti” that features Wiz Khalifa, T.I., Meek Mill, French 
Montana, 2 Chainz, Future, DJ Khaled and 
Birdman gets played, and if it does, then as Mi-gos would say, “Look at my dab.”
Roundup: Highlighting DJ Khaled’s hits ff the Record
Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
 “I Changed A Lot” by DJ Khaled album artComedian Bo Burnham will also be form-ing at the third annual Big Orange Festi-val tomorrow night at the Reitz Union. 
Along with Burnham’s and DJ Khaled’s 
performances, there will be free food, shirts and showings of “Star Wars: The Force Awakens.” 
Burnham will perform in the Grand Ball-
room at 9 p.m., and tickets are free for UF students with a Gator 1 Card. To get ready for Burnham’s stand-up show, watch and listen to some of his 
most popular work since he came onto 
the scene in 2008. 
If you’re on Netﬂ  ix...
Watch Burnham’s 2013 comedy special 
“what.” This hourlong performance com-bines commentay-laden observational jokes with Burnham’s signature musical stylings. This is his most famous work, 
and it is a good entrance into Burnham’s 
comedy.If you’re watching on YouTube... Check out Burnham’s YouTube channel “boburnham” to see some of his earliest 
material. Some of our favorites include:
- “My Whole Family Thinks I’m Gay” - “i’m bo yo”- ”New Math”
If you’re listening online...
Burnham’s EP “what.” is available on Spotify and includes all the audio from his stand-up show, even from the visual 
comedy that starts it off. “what.” show-
cases Burhman’s potent and offbeat commentary on pop culture, religion and comedy. Check out these songs from the 
EP:
- “From God’s Perspective”- “Repeat Stuff”
Burham’s 2010 album “Words Words 
Words” was No. 1 on the Billboard Com-
edy chart, and includes these hits:- ”What’s Funny”- “Art is Dead” Bo Burnham co-headlining 
BIG ORANGE FESTIVAL12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016
By Hannah Ogden
Avenue Writer 
The High Dive will host a sold-out St. Pad-
dy’s Day show Thursday at 8:30 p.m., which 
will be packed with fans decked out in green to see Frank Turner.
Turner, an English folk singer and song-
writer, is headlining, and Skinny Lister, Beans on Toast and Will Varley will also perform.
Turner is stopping in Gainesville on his way 
to Flogging Molly’s Salty Dog Cruise, a three-night, four-day festival aboard the Norwegian Sky, leaving from South Florida, said Pat Lav-ery, the promoter for High Dive.“He chose to play Gainesville as his only 
stop in the southeast,” Lavery said.
In addition to the show, Bubba Luigi’s 
Roadtrip food truck will be serving corned beef and cabbage in the parking lot of the High Dive starting at 7 p.m.
Taylor Bartenope, a UF tourism, recreation 
and event management junior, said High Dive is one of her favorite places to go, and she is very excited to see Turner perform.
Bartenope and Jessica Trad, a UF statistics 
junior, said they purchased their tickets for $23 
about a month ago.
“If I had waited another day, I wouldn’t 
have been able to get one because they sold out,” Trad said.
The resale tickets are posted for about $100 
each on the event’s Facebook page, she said.
The St. Paddy’s Day show is the start of the 
rest of the weekend celebrations High Dive is 
hosting, Lavery said.
The third annual St. Paddy’s Day themed 
Original Gainesville Food Truck Rally will be held at High Dive compound Saturday. Admis-sion to the rally is free, and the event will begin at 5 p.m.
There will be over a dozen local and region-
al food vendors serving St. Paddy’s themed food, including corned beef and cabbage.
The rally will also have live music featuring traditional Irish music and drinking songs. Mu-sic acts include Jig to a Milestone, Driveaway, Dr. John & the Medicine Show and Noah Mac-
Ginnis, Lavery said.
Trad said she plans to attend the rally as 
well as the show and is looking forward to try-
ing something new at one of the food trucks. 
“I feel like most food trucks combine dif-
ferent things we wouldn’t think of putting to-gether,” she said. “It’s always an interesting experience.”
Both the show and the rally expect to have 
a large turnout, Lavery said. He encourages everyone to wear green to go along with the theme. High Dive to host folk singer Frank Turner, food truck rally
LOCAL
By Nicole Clark
Avenue Writer
Know Where Coffee celebrated 
its one-year anniversary with a latte art competition.
Fifteen baristas from around Flor-
ida competed head-to-head for the 
title of “Best Latte Art” at 6:30 p.m. 
Monday at Know Where Coffee, situated at 1226 W. University Ave.
About 40 guests attended the 
competition, enjoying the cre-ative lattes the competing baristas whipped up.
“We thought the friendly compe-
tition would be a fun way to bring 
in the community to celebrate our anniversary and showcase some 
skills,” said Alfonso Guerrero, the founder and manager of Know 
Where Coffee.
The coffee shop prides itself on 
providing the best coffee quality. Ev-
erything is measured, weighed and timed to ensure the coffee produced is the best it can be from the prod-ucts used.
Zeal Coffee Roasters sponsored 
and helped host the event by provid-
ing coffee for the competition.
“Making a latte may seem simple, 
but it can be complicated,” Guer-
rero said. “The milk changes the ﬂ  avor, making it silky and smooth. It is more than a companion to the espresso; it enhances it.”
The latte competition was made 
into a bracket system, with the 
barista’s challenges changing during 
each bracket. The ﬁ  rst bracket was creating art in latte cups, the second bracket in cappuccino cups and the third bracket in a cortado cup. The contestants competing for ﬁ  rst place chose which cups they wanted to make their ﬁ  nal art in.
The ﬁ  rst-place prize was $100 
and a home-brew kit. The second-place prize was $30 and coffee beans. The third-place prize was $10 and a Know Where Coffee mug.
The judges examined multiple 
aspects of the latte art presented to them. The judges looked at the color contrast, symmetry, level of difﬁ  cul-ty and the milk texture in the latte to decide which art was superior to 
the other. 
The lattes were placed onto the 
counter in squares marked by blue 
painters tape, one labeled A and the other B. The judges were unaware of which barista made each latte.
“I love coffee, so being able 
to judge this competition is really cool,” said Bret Larson, a judge of 
the competition and, an owner of 
Opus Coffee.
Some of the competitors had one 
year of experience, while others had ﬁ  ve years or more.
Among the competition was Al-
fonso Guerrero and his brother Ro-drigo Guerrero, who also works at Know Where Coffee.“I have only been doing this for 
a year,” said Rodrigo Guerrero. “I’d like to win, but we’ll see what hap-pens.”
As the competition ensued to 
the ﬁ  nal two baristas, Justin Hall and Alfonso Guerrero approached the espresso machine. They swirled their cups of espresso and delicately poured milk into the cup to create a piece of art. The judges deliberated for minutes before pointing to latte B, making Alfonso Guerrero the win-
ner of the latte art competition.
Hall, who won second place, has 
been a barista for four years and 
owns Spring Park Coffee in Green Cove Springs, Florida.
The second-place winner left 
with $30 and some coffee beans.
“I’ll probably use it to buy the gas 
to get home,” Hall joked.
Know Where Coﬀ  ee founder wins local latte art contest
If Netﬂ  ix and chill just isn’t the same 
when there’s green beer and Jameson 
specials in every corner of town, here’s a 
drinking game for those of you who aren’t 
planning on staying in on St. Patty’s Day. In honor of the holiday, the Avenue is pro-viding you with your own “sign night.” 
Yes, if you’re reading this, you’ve ofﬁ  cial-
ly turned 21 all over again.
What you’ll need:
 Scissors (to cut out this article)
 Glue (to paste it onto a green sheet of construction paper)
 A hole puncher (you get the pic-ture)
 Green string (to hang your sign around your neck)
 A willingness to forget your name
The rules:
Take a sip…
 For every person you see wearing 
green beads
 For every person taking selﬁ  es with green beer
 For every person who attempts an Irish accent
 …of your Guinness (or someone else’s, if you’re a baller on a bud-get)
Take a shot…
 For every person you spot not wearing green
 For every “Kiss Me, I’m Irish” shirt
 For every girl with a four-leaf clo-ver drawn on her face
 …of an Irish Car Bomb (It is tradi-tion, after all.)
Finish your drink…
 For every person you spot passed out before 9 p.m.
 For that one guy who’s always pinching everyone — regardless of 
whether people are wearing green
 For every person drunkenly at-tempting an Irish jig
 If your friends are drunker than 
you are — or if you’re drunker than them
- Kirsten Chuba and Laura GomezCelebrating St. Patty’s DayFifteen baristas competed for the win
Dear Mediocre,
I met a man a few 
months ago, and we’ve been dating for a while. Lately he’s been staying 
out more and getting home 
late. He’s always wonder-ing where I am and what I’m doing. I assume he’s just lonely, but maybe I’m wrong. What do I do? How do I confront this?
- Naïve
Dear Naïve,Wowza.If castration was legal, that would 
be my advice to you. Not even kidding. Sounds like your man is either pulling extra hours at work or taking care of the wife and kids he’s got stashed on the side…
Any man that constantly wants to 
know what you’re doing is a rare gem that you should treasure. So what if he’s overbearing and sneaky? That’s the new sentiment. Clearly something sparked this attraction in the ﬁ  rst place, so it is your job to keep the ﬂ  ame burn-ing — no matter what.
Has he lost interest, 
or is he doing stuff on the low-low? Do yourself a fa-vor and don’t even look 
into it. Join the rest of 
the world and close your eyes when you see things that make you doubt your man. Haven’t you seen the Facebook posts prompting 
women to cherish their “kings”? Hello? Cherish your king! A real partnership doesn’t ask questions, and it really 
doesn’t even require communication. 
That’s all a myth. And don’t let that quack-a-doodle psychologist, relation-ship coach or anyone else tell you oth-erwise. Ph.D.s are last-year, too.
Use all of that free time when your 
man isn’t around to think of new ways to please him. Learn how to cook. Keep the apartment super tidy. Sew up 
some new sexy lingerie. All of these 
things will pretty much ensure that you’ll keep the relationship alive! No matter how dead it currently seems!
Catch you later,Mediocre
MEDIOCRE ADVICE
Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
DRINKING GAMETHURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-20-15-72-2
"MR CHEAP ROOM"
is back in service. For economical luxury, call Rob 375-8606. Near Campus & only $180/mo.    3-24-10-2Houses For Rent close to UF
3/2, excellent condition, fenced backyards, 
pets welcome
$1200 per mo to $1350 per mo.
611 NW 36th Terr, 630 NW 34th Terr
Call Mike -352-665-7316 or
email oranskym@gmail.com
3-25-16-10-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-23-16-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
For Sale: Condo 1BR/1BA - 705sq.ft. Bike to UF or ride bus
Call or Text 352-234-3018     3-21-5-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 12 Autos14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics,
Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Cleaning, Drivers.
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs!
3-18-16-10-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYLocal small business is seeking a market-ing intern to help grow the business. Must be well-organized, proficient with website design and social media analytics. Help de-sign a data-based review system to drive improvements. Great part-time work for a student. Please send CV to punchkin23@hotmail.com.    3-25-16-10-14
Designated drivers are the greatestF/T office receptionist wanted. Starting not less than $11 per hour. Legal experience not required. Seeking an energetic person for the front desk that can communicate well with clients. We want this person to be a great first impression for our office. Computer skills helpful, but nothing high end required. Call 352-371-4000     4-1-14-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15 
Help disabled artist setup & break down 
booth at Santa Fe College Art Festival: Disabled artist needs help with booth; need 3 hrs Fri afternoon April 1st & 3 hrs Sun (5 to 8) April 3rd. $20/hr for the 6 hrs. Help carry dis-play & tent materials from truck to site, help set up booth, then help break down display, load truck. Call Larry Hering 954 258 4926 or email lhering216@yahoo.com    3-17-16-3-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 3/21-3/24 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach-ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then workshops” to register.      3-21-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-23-16-20-16
FINALLY! A Weight Loss Program Just For Teens. Lose weight for GOOD with the “World’s BEST Weight Loss Program EVER!” Results Guaranteed “Or Your Money Back” Here’s How It Works! www.skinnynhot.com     3-17-16-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
19 Connections 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesHeadline
Story description Pg#
Ronni Williams is the driving 
force behind the Florida women's basketball team.Read the story on pg. 18.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida-Georgia game staying in Jacksonville
Florida and Georgia reached an agreement with the city of Jacksonville to 
keep the annual football rivalry game at EverBank Field through 2021 , it was announced on Tuesday. The annual event was ﬁ  rst played in Jacksonville in 1933. By Graham Hack
Sports Writer
Last year, Florida’s offensive line 
was simply trying to tread water.
Signiﬁ  cantly depleted by inju-
ries and departures to the NFL, the 
Gators entered Spring practice in 
2015 with just six healthy scholar-
ship linemen, many of whom hadn’t started a collegiate game.
They were able to bolster their 
depth somewhat by adding a few 
freshmen to the mix by the start of 
Fall camp, but the limited numbers 
and lack of experience held the unit back.
First- and second-year players 
who were already faced with learn-
ing a new offense were thrust into 
signiﬁ  cant roles, adjusting to both the new scheme and the speed of the Southeastern Conference while 
receiving little to no respite from the 
bench.
Even with all that taking place, 
the team was still able to win 10 
games and reach Atlanta, a testa-
ment to how well the unit was able 
to sustain success while learning on 
the ﬂ  y.
But to reach the next level, the 
men in the trenches know they can’t be the weak link.
"We’re the defending East cham-
pions and we’ve got to hold a stan-dard to that," offensive lineman An-Florida oﬀ  ensive line hoping depth leads to improvement
THE REDSHIRT JUNIOR HAD 
THREE SACKS LAST SEASON.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Beneath the shoulder pads that he put on for 
the ﬁ  rst time this spring, Caleb Brantley’s shirt was tucked in.
"I’m just trying to lead by example," he said. 
"Do all the little stuff."
With the departure of Jonathan Bullard to 
the NFL Draft, Brantley has found himself taking a leadership role along Florida’s defensive line during Spring practice.
So far, the redshirt junior has embraced it."(Bullard) taught me how to be a leader, a 
role model to the younger guys," Brantley said. "You don’t want to be the guy that coaches look to, to lead the younger guys, and you’re messing stuff up."
Last season, Bullard was the Gators’ unques-
tioned defensive captain on the line. He led the team with 17.5 tackles for loss, tied for ﬁ  rst with 6.5 sacks and tied for third with six quarterback hurries.
Brantley’s numbers were more humble.The then-redshirt sophomore tied for third 
on the team in sacks (three), ﬁ  nished seventh in tackles for loss (6.5) and tied for 13th in solo tackles (eight).
But now a redshirt junior, and now one of 
only four upperclassmen on Florida’s defensive line, Brantley has been getting more than his fair share of opportunities during practice.
"I feel like if I can stay on the ﬁ  eld longer and 
get my wind up," Brantley said,"I feel like I can help this team a lot."
Defensive coordinator Geoff Collins thinks Notebook: Brantley hoping to 
break out on defensive lineFor many years, the NFL 
followed in the footsteps of the tobacco industry.
Overwhelmed by a 
growing body of evidence 
that football is directly linked to the brain disease known as CTE, the NFL did what any successful, prominent, and supposedly in-dispensable company would do: Deny, deny and deny again.
Why? Because despite what most football 
fans will say about how the sport is part of the very fabric of American life, it is, in fact, dis-pensable. And the NFL knows it.
But to many people, that’s just completely 
unthinkable. Perhaps no one says so more prominently than ESPN’s Danny Kanell.
"The war on football is real," Kanell said in 
a tweet in late 2015. "Not sure source but con-cussion alarmists are loving it. Liberal media loves it. Doesn’t matter. It’s real."Prompted by Sports Illustrat-
ed’s Doug Farrar, who pointed out that the research linking football and concussions has been widely validated, Kanell responded with the epitome of how many football fans view this issue.
"Oh cool. So u agree with him 
then," he wrote on Twitter. "Start writing it. No more football."
Many fans of the sport act as though football 
is as integral to their daily lives as breathing, eating and sleeping. So what happens when the concussion dominoes start falling?
Dr. Bennet Omalu was the ﬁ  rst to link foot-
ball to CTE, as made widely known in the ﬁ  lm "Concussion." That happened in 2002, and the NFL, which had previously "studied" the link between football and brain damage, predictably discredited Omalu’s work. One domino falls.
Fast forward to March 2015, when San Fran-CTE evidence will lead to fall of  footballEmily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Cam Dillard jogs off the ﬁ  eld after Florida's 41-7 loss to Michigan on Jan. 1 in the Citrus Bowl. 
 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 17
SWEET AND BAUER
SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 17 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 17
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @graham_hack24tonio Riles said. "We know last year 
that we were the primary position to blame, so we’ve just got to step up and make that happen."
A year later, the picture is much 
different. The Gators have a full unit of linemen at their disposal, allowing players to compete and push each other in practice. The coaching staff doesn’t have to alter its practice plan based on only having a handful of healthy players — everything is on the table."I tell you what, it beats seven 
people last year," offensive lineman 
Cameron Dillard said. "Golly. It’s a 
lot better."
Aside from seniors Trip Thur-
man and Mason Halter, the rest of 
the starters and players who were 
heavily involved in 2015 return this 
season, all with the experience they 
gained from being thrown into the fire.
"We’re way ahead of where we 
were last year at this time," Dillard 
said. "Over the offseason we’ve been 
doing individual stuff and just putting 
in that extra work that we hadn’t last year."
That continuity has helped with 
their communication, and it’s also 
allowed them to focus on improv-
ing physically instead of spending so much time trying to get up to speed.
Even the UF defenders have taken 
notice.
"You can look at those guys, 
they’re big as hell," defensive line-man Caleb Brantley said. "They’re stronger. They’re more in unison. It’s just a better group overall to-
gether."
@graham_hack24
ghack@alligator.orgcisco 49ers linebacker Chris Borland 
retired after one season in the pros, citing concerns over his long-term health. He was 24 years old when he left the game. Two dominoes fallen.
Later that same year, Dr. Ann 
McKee, a professor at Boston Uni-versity, and her team announced a now-often-cited study that found CTE in 96 percent of all NFL football 
players and 79 percent of all football 
players — pro, semi-pro, college or high school. Three dominoes fallen. Heck, that should count as more 
than three, because those numbers 
are absolutely damning.
Granted, those examined had 
suspected they had the disease and 
donated their brains to be studied as 
a result. Regardless, the association 
is still overwhelming.
Which is why, after years and 
years of denial, the final domino fell 
this Tuesday.
Jeff Miller, the NFL’s senior vice 
president for health and safety pol-icy, in testimony before congress, said that the answer to whether or not there’s a link between football 
and degenerative brain disorders is 
"certainly yes."
Suddenly, a row of dominoes lies 
motionless on the table for every 
football fan to see.
But with the question of foot-
ball's link to concussions answered, a new question emerges — Kanell’s question.
If just about everyone — even the NFL — acknowledges that foot-ball is directly linked to brain dam-age, what happens to football?
The answer, predictably, isn’t 
simple.
That’s because I, like most sports 
writers, enjoy watching football. I’ve been watching it for as long as I can remember, and the game is both ex-citing to look at and to write about.
But I’ve found my love of the 
sport increasingly difficult to justify.
Sure, it’s fun to watch Kam 
Chancellor deliver a decleating shot 
on an unsuspecting slot receiver. Or 
at least it used to be.
But watching such hits is getting 
tougher and tougher when I consid-er where both players could end up 
down the line just for the sake of a 
bloodlust-satisfying game.
So you want someone to say it, 
Danny? Well here ya go.
Football will follow a similar 
path to cigarettes. People will still play the game, because frankly, 
some people just don’t care or opt 
for willful ignorance. 
But as more and more people 
acknowledge the danger and send 
their kids to the baseball diamond 
or the basketball court, the more the 
sport will lose popularity. It won’t 
happen overnight, but it’ll happen.
And ultimately, no more football 
— at least in its current megalithic 
form.
Ethan Bauer is the assistant sports 
editor. You can contact him at ebau-
er@alligator.org or follow him on 
Twitter @ebaueri.COLUMN,  from pg 16
FOOTBALL,  from pg 16Florida lost two starters to graduation
so, too.
Earlier in the spring, Collins met with the 
defense and showed them the production the 
Gators will lose next season from Bullard.
For Brantley, it served as motivation."I feel like I’m the best d-lineman in the coun-
try," Brantley said. "So I’m going out and trying to prove it."
Marcell Harris hoping for breakout year:When Collins met with the defense, he didn’t 
just address the defensive line.
Among the biggest voids Florida will be try-
ing to fill this spring is in the secondary, where the Gators lost a projected NFL first-round pick in cornerback Vernon Hargreaves, along with fel-low starters Brian Poole and Keanu Neal.
Enter Marcell Harris.In 12 games last season, the safety finished 
with 22 tackles and no interceptions. But now a redshirt junior, Harris figures to get more playing time.
"I’ve become a lot older, become a lot smart-
er," Harris said. "Now, I see a lot of things better and I’m moving better and I feel a lot better com-ing out of my breaks. So, this year for me, I feel like it should be one of the best."
Harris added that new UF defensive backs 
coach Torrian Gray has helped. Gray has already begun introducing new techniques to a second-ary that ranked 13th in the nation in passing yards allowed (182.1 per game) and 24th in pass-es defended (4.86 per game) last season.
"Honestly, I feel like he has made an impact," 
Harris said of Gray. "He just keeps what he’s do-ing and everything should be OK."
@icohen
icohen@alligator.orgNOTEBOOK,  from pg 16Harris played in 12 games in 2015 and registered 22 tacklesTHURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Antonio Riles walks off the field following Florida's 41-7 loss to Michigan on Jan. 1 in the Citrus Bowl. 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF defensive lineman Caleb Brantley lines up during Florida's 14-9 win against Kentucky on Sept. 19, 2015, at Commonwealth Stadium in Lexington, Kentucky.18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
Ronni Williams knew something 
was off.
It was early December, near the 
end of the Florida women’s basket-
ball team’s non-conference slate, 
and the Gators’ top player had fallen 
into a slump.
After averaging a team-best 13 
points and 7.9 rebounds per game, her next three games were subpar at best.
Six points, three rebounds.Four points, four rebounds.Eight points, four rebounds.
They were nowhere near the 
standards Ronni sets for herself.
Before any negativity could get 
into Ronni’s head, Jaterra Bonds, a 
four-year letterwinner for UF from 2010-2014 who works as a member of the scout team for the Gators, pulled Ronni to the side.
She needed to set the record 
straight.
“You’re supposed to be, no, you 
are one of the top players in the country,” Ronni remembers Bonds telling her. “You can’t let one bad performance dictate how the rest of your season turns out.”
Ronni heard the message loud 
and clear. She has since gone on 
to play her best season in a Gators 
jersey.
And as No. 5-seed Florida opens 
NCAA Tournament play against No. 12-seed Albany at noon this Friday in Syracuse, New York, Ronni will 
look to be the driving force she has 
been all season long.
“We worked hard all year for 
this moment right here,” Ronni said. “Now that we actually get a chance to play and compete, it feels great.”
•   •   •
Ronni has a knack for making 
plays from anywhere on the court.
She’s a presence in the post, able 
to score with her back to the basket and fight for every rebound like a 
center.
She’s protective of the ball, able 
to drive to the basket or dish the ball 
out to her teammates like a point guard.
Or if she’s in the mood, she’ll eye 
a defender down before faking them out and swishing a jumper.
Her tenacity is present at all 
points in the game, whether she’s hauling in a double-double or cheer-ing on her teammates from the bench.
“She’s that one person you don’t 
want play against because she’s go-ing to get after it no matter what,” junior Simone Westbrook said.
Ronni’s versatility was on dis-
play all season, and it’s why she has proven to be one of Florida’s biggest assets during what is shaping out to be the team’s best season under coach Amanda Butler.
Ronni, a 6-foot forward in her 
junior year, leads the team with 11 points and 7.8 rebounds per game while shooting 51.0 percent from 
the field and 66.3 percent from the 
free-throw line en route to earning All-Southeastern Conference sec-ond-team honors.
She paces the team with 17 dou-
ble-figure scoring games and eight double-doubles.
Her best showing came during the Gators’ upset over then-No. 12 
Texas A&M, when she became the 
first UF player since 2007 to post 20 points and 15 rebounds.
“You can watch her play for two 
seconds and tell she’s unique and something that can be a program impacter in a very, very big way,” Butler said. “She’s just a really solid and normal person in a lot of ways 
with exceptional gifts.”
•   •   •
Ronni came to UF with a history 
of success and a desire to polish her 
game.
A four-year letterwinner and Mc-
Donald’s All-American out of Atlan-
tic High in Daytona Beach, Ronni 
knew she was the only person who would limit how far she would go.
She comes to the gym every day, ready to improve.
To Jaterra Bonds, Ronni is still 
her little All-American almost three years later.
“That was my baby when she got 
here,” said Bonds, who was a senior when Ronni entered Florida’s pro-gram as a freshman in 2013. “I al-ways knew she was going to be one of the best players in our league.”
But it wasn’t an easy road for 
Ronni when she first got to Florida.
In 33 games as a freshman, she 
fouled out a school-record 16 times.
As a sophomore, she was thrust 
into a leadership role on a team that struggled to find consistency.
“Her growing years were her first 
two years,” Bonds said. “They al-most forced her to get to where she is now.”
And Ronni’s improvement isn’t just helping herself.
Butler said Ronni’s effort is con-
tagious, helping her teammates play to their fullest potential.
“She’s done a really good job 
of trying to make a bigger impact,” Butler said, “not just as a scorer or a rebounder or the things that show up in the statistical columns, but im-pacting everybody around her on a championship level.”
•   •   •
Even with all the regular-season 
success and the improvements she’s made, Ronni said the ultimate goal is still within reach.
A national title.
“That’s what we’re here for,” she 
said. “That’s what we’re doing it for 
at the end of the day is to win.”
The first step in that journey starts Friday against Albany.
The Great Danes (27-4) made the 
tournament after winning the Amer-ican East Tournament and have won 20 of their last 21 heading into 
the noon tip with the Gators.
Should Florida advance, a long 
road will ensue.
But Florida isn’t worrying about 
their opponent.
Like they have all season, the 
Gators will control the controllables, 
and that starts with playing their style of basketball — an aggressive, 
get-after-the-ball style of play that 
has reaped dividends this season. 
It’s a style that’s been proven to 
work time and time again.
Against then-No. 9 Florida State, 
a 5 seed in the NCAA Tournament and the Gators’ first win of the year after a lackluster outing four days earlier in their season opener against 
Temple.
Against Tennessee, a crucial road 
contest that Florida won even with-
out Butler on the sidelines as she dealt with a family emergency.
Against Kentucky and Texas 
A&M, back-to-back home wins against top-15 opponents in polar opposite fashions.
They’re hoping it works in their 
favor again.
“They can go all the way,” Bonds 
said. “I think they need to keep get-ting better and keep clicking, but I think they have a really good chance of getting really deep in the tourna-ment and messing up some people’s brackets.”
And Ronni Williams will be lead-
ing the charge.
“It’s a blessing that I have the 
trust from my teammates and my coaches to be able to lead the team in the right direction. … We’re tough and we carry ourselves with class,” Ronni said. “We’re able to show that in a way for our team.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.org Driving Force: Ronni Williams willing Florida to postseason
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida’s Ronni Williams shoots the ball during UF’s 92-69 loss to Kentucky in the SEC T ournament on 
March 4 in the Jacksonville Veterans Memorial Arena. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Carla Batchelor (left), Carlie Needles (middle) and Ronni Williams (right) celebrate with teammates after a play during Florida’s 85-79 win over Kentucky on Jan. 31 in the O’Connell Center.
THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
On Wednesday, Kelly Barnhill shut out 
Winthrop.
She began the game by striking out the 
side in the first, the second and the third 
innings.
She struck out the first two batters in 
the fifth inning, got hit with a line drive, 
and then struck out the third batter.
And then she struck out the side in the 
sixth inning.
No. 1 Florida (27-1, 2-1 Southeastern 
Conference) beat the Winthrop Eagles (10-17) 7-0 in seven innings. 
Barnhill notched a career-high 18 strike-
outs, setting an individual record for most 
strikeouts by a Gator pitcher in a game, 
and gave up only two hits and three walks 
in a complete game.
“It feels really great,” Barnhill said. 
“I mean, I could give you every cliche 
in the book. It just feels really amazing to do it.
“Coming back from any loss — no mat-
ter who it is — you have that fire in your stomach. You’re just like, ‘We’re gonna 
come after this next opponent.’”
While the freshman was impressive in 
the circle, the Gators started out sputtering 
offensively. 
They scored two in the first inning on 
ground-ball base hits from freshman Aman-
da Lorenz and sophomore Kayli Kvistad.
Florida didn’t get on the board again un-
til the fourth inning.
Junior Justine McLean scored from sec-
ond when Kelsey Stewart hit a looping fly 
ball to shallow center field. 
Stewart scored two batters later when Lorenz hit a hard grounder to the Eagles’ second baseman who bobbled the ball, giv-ing Florida a 4-0 lead.
UF stepped up its hitting in the fifth.Kvistad kicked off the inning by ripping a double into the right-center gap. 
Then, senior Taylore Fuller hit a line 
drive over the third baseman’s head.
Sophomore Nicole DeWitt drove in the 
two runners on a double down the right field line. 
She scored on a hit by senior catcher 
Aubree Munro to make the score 7-0.
“She did a good job, a couple more drop balls tonight,” coach Tim Walton said. 
“The good thing about her is, if she gets 
ahead in the count it really makes it tough 
on you, because she does throw so hard.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgBarnhill leads Gators softball in shutout win over Winthrop
FLORIDA SITS IN 16TH 
PLACE AFTER DAY 1.
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
Fast starts have been a motto 
for Florida swimming coach Gregg 
Troy all season. 
Most of the regular-season vic-
tories for the No. 9-ranked UF 
women’s swimming and diving 
team can be attributed to jump-ing out to an early lead. But after a slow start on Wednesday, the Gators will have much ground to make up on the leaders. 
Wednesday marked Day 1 of 
the four-day-long NCAA champi-onship meet. With only one event taking place on the first day — the 800-yard freestyle relay — it was a solid opportunity for the Gators to make a strong statement against their 26 adversaries.
A 16th-place finish was any-
thing but strong. 
“We put in a lot of work leading 
up to this race and we didn’t fin-
ish where we would have liked to,” 
Troy said in a release. 
“We thought we could have 
gone faster. We showed up and swam the best of our abilities but it just wasn’t there today.”
Florida’s quartet for Wednes-
day’s relay consisted of seniors Natalie Hinds, Jessica Thielmann and Ashlee Linn, along with sopho-more Amelia Maughan. Maughan opened the relay for 
the Gators, finishing the first leg with a time of 1:47.46. Hinds and Thielmann soon followed, each swimmer completing their 200-yard splits at 1:45.05 and 1:46.72, respectively. 
Linn, the anchor for Florida, 
closed the relay with a split time of 1:45.06, nearly matching Hinds for fastest on the team. With a total time of 7:04.79, the Gators finished fifth in their heat race and 16th overall. 
Aside from finishing nearly 13 
seconds slower than overall winner Georgia, the Gators clocked in 2.84 seconds slower than their qualify-
ing time (7:01.95) and 1.35 sec-
onds slower than their third-place time (7:03.44) at the Southeastern Conference Championship meet last month. 
UF’s lapse from its qualifying 
round was the difference between finishing inside the top 12 and fin-ishing outside the top 15. 
The Gators have five of their re-
maining 13 swimming events tak-ing place today. 
And along with the five races, 
senior diver and SEC champion Kahlia Warner will compete in the 1-meter diving event.  
Today’s events could be a cru-
cial turning point or a morale 
breaker for Florida. 
Aside from Warner, the Gators 
will need to pick up the pace if they 
wish to extend their NCAA top-10 finishing streak to a 16th straight season. 
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.org UF women’s swimming and diving off to slow start at NCAAsJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kelly Barnhill toes the rubber during the second game of UF’s double-header sweep of Jacksonville on Feb. 27 at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Natalie Hinds swims during Florida’s win over Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O’Connell Center. 
She tossed seven scoreless innings20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016
