We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
We Inform. You Decide.
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 27 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
A NEW 
CHALLENGE
On Tuesday, Florida hired the 
athletics director it wanted all along: Scott StricklinSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  87° LOW  70°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Banned Books Week: Read aloud 
from a banned or challenged 
Book
Celebrate the First Amendment by reading aloud from your fa-vorite banned or challenged 
book today from 12:30 p.m. to 
2:00 p.m. outside at the Marston 
Science Library entrance. Books will be provided to read from if 
you don’t bring your own. Read 
more about Banned Books Week at ala.org/bbooks/bannedbook-sweek.
DIY Gameday Swag
Create personalized UF swag for Saturday gamedays in the Swamp! Show off your Gator spirit by making your own or-ange and blue ribbon ponytails and bandanas to wear for every football game. Bring your favor-ite Gator T-shirt for shirt-cutting tutorials and more. This Reitz Union Board Entertainment event will take place in the Reitz, Room 3320 from 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. on Thursday.
‘People on the Move’
An exhibit about the migrant crisis “People on the Move” is on display this week in the Breezeway at Santa Fe College. It will be at Oak Hall School until 
Friday and in the Ocora at Pugh 
Hall on Monday through Oct. 
7. The exhibit is sponsored by 
Welcoming Gainesville as part of Welcoming Week.
Celebrate the Florida Museum’s 
11th annual ButterflyFestExplore the lives of bats, bees, birds and butterflies at the 11th 
annual ButterflyFest on Saturday 
from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
Learn about butterfly garden-ing,  backyard wildlife and more. Enjoy the ButterflyFest plant 
sale, one of the museum’s larg-
est sales of the year, Friday to 
Sunday. Come dressed in your favorite pollinator attire for the pollinator parade. Food and 
merchandise vendors will be 
available. Visit flmnh.ufl.edu/
butterflyfest/home for more in-formation. ButterflyFest is spon-sored in part by the Gainesville Sun.
Florida Museum to host photog-
raphy workshopSnap the picture of a lifetime Saturday and Sunday from 8:00 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. in the Florida Museum of Natural History’s Butterfly Rainforest, featuring 60 to 80 species at any given time. During this special event, 
use your tripod and other pho-
tographic equipment not usually 
permitted inside the exhibit. The 
fee is $25 for museum members and $28 for non-members. Pre-
registration is required. Visit 
flmnh.ufl.edu/butterflyfest/
whats-happening/workshops or 
call 352-846-2000 for more infor-mation.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send 
an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@
alligator.org. To request publica-
tion in the next day’s newspaper, 
please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and 
keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 27
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
advertising@alligator.org352−376−4482
MASSACHUSETTS . . . 09 /02
KENTUCKY . . . . . . . . 09 /09
NORTH TEXAS . . . . . 09 /16 
LSU . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10/07
MISSOURI . . . . . . . . . 10/14
GEORGIA . . . . . . . . . . 10/28  
SOUTH CAROLINA . . . 11/10
PRESBYTERIAN . . . . 11/18
SEC CHAMPIONSHIP . . 12/02
CONTACT YOUR SALES REP!ADVERTISE IN  
THE ALLIGATOR’S 2016  
FOOTBALL EDITIONS15%AND
SAVEKICK OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUMRUN 5 OUT OF 9 DATES
KICK
 OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
In a small conference room in a 
corner of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, 13 people waited for Jeremy Foley 
to speak.
Nearly four months after the UF 
athletics director announced his re-tirement, a search committee asked for his opinion Tuesday morning on the man who would take his 
place.
Once the list of potential candi-
dates had been ﬁ  ltered down to 22 names, Foley stepped in with other committee members to help UF 
President Kent Fuchs narrow the list down to six. Then two.
Then one: Scott Stricklin.Members of the search commit-
tee visited Stricklin to asses his per-sonality. They called his co-workers 
at Mississippi State University, and 
they called friends, family and ac-
quaintances. They spoke to people 
who had once worked with Strick-lin in order to judge the 46-year-old  Stricklin embracing challenge as new athletics director
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
The monthslong search for a 
missing Gainesville woman may 
be over.
About eight months since 
Hannah Brim, then 23, was re-ported missing on Jan. 19 and later presumed dead, Gainesville Police announced Tuesday that 
law enforcement discovered 
what are believed to be Brim’s remains in a creek just east of Gainesville.
At about 11 a.m. Tuesday, members of the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce Dive Team found the bones about three miles from 
the Orange Heights neighbor-
hood in Alachua County, GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said at a press conference held Tuesday.Conﬁ  rmation of the bones’ 
identity is pending further test-ing by the District 8 Medical 
Examiner’s Ofﬁ  ce and UF’s C.A. 
Pound Human Identiﬁ  cation Laboratory, Tobias said.
Brim was believed to be ﬁ  ve 
months pregnant when she went missing, according to Alligator archives. Her former boyfriend, Nelson Armas, is considered to 
be the last person who saw her.
Armas, who was indicted on a 
ﬁ  rst-degree murder charge Sept. 
14, is currently at the Alachua 
 GPD: possible remains of missing GNV woman foundRESIDENTS REPORTED 
WRONG CANDIDATES 
DISPLAYED ON BALLOTS.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer
Residents of Inﬁ  nity Hall experienced 
problems Tuesday as they voted for the ﬁ  rst student candidate seeking to represent them. 
Alexis Colby, a resident of Inﬁ  nity Hall, 
said when she went to cast her ballot at the Reitz Union polling location, 10 District A candidates were listed, instead of Inﬁ  nity Hall candidates Zachariah Chou and Kelly Hooper. But the 18-year-old said she knew who she wanted to represent Inﬁ  nity. 
“I just want to make sure my vote will 
count,” said Colby, a UF health education and behavior freshman who wrote in a 
candidate. But UF Supervisor of Elections Eric 
Hobbs said because her ballot went toward 
District A, it won’t count toward the Inﬁ  n-ity Hall race. During voting, the online sys-tem should ask if the district students see on their ballots is correct. If it’s not, stu-
dents can use an afﬁ  davit, which allows 
them to change their address to show the correct one. 
Students can update their local address 
at any time through the my.uﬂ  .edu web-site, Hobbs said. 
He said he informed UF Information 
Technology after he was notiﬁ  ed of the er-ror, but a recount of cast ballots isn’t likely. 
“That’s never been done before, and 
I don’t think that would be possible,” he said. 
He wrote in an email that 5,032 stu-
dents voted on the ﬁ  rst day of Fall Student Government elections, less than last Fall’s ﬁ  rst-day election turnout of 6,427 students,  Inﬁ  nity Hall faces ballot issues
THIS IS THE FIRST YEAR UF’S 
CAREER SHOWCASE HAS 
BEEN HELD AT THE GYM. 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Students wearing suits and business skirts 
ﬁ  ltered into Southwest Recreation Center along-side peers in tank tops and running shorts Tues-day morning. 
The UF Career Showcase, held from 9 a.m. to 
3 p.m., was relocated to Southwest Rec this Fall due to renovations at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center. The event invites students and alumni to interview with companies for jobs and intern-ships.
Heather White, the director of UF’s Career 
Resource Center, said the center spent last year planning and collaborating with RecSports and the O’Connell Center’s staff to make the move 
a success. “After so many years of a UF tradition be-
ing held at one place, one venue, that’s a big 
change,” she said. The event will return to the O’Connell Center in the Spring. 
For Randy Shiver, an employer, the new ven-
ue felt smaller. 
“I’m worried about people being able to get to 
the tables and having time to talk to them,” the Harris Corporation project engineer said. 
To make sure all students could speak with 
them, Harris Corporation set up an information session after the showcase.  
Roxanne Williams, 21, said she was slight-
ly intimidated by the students dressed for the showcase. But when the UF applied physiology 
and kinesiology senior walked into the gym, she 
was relieved to see the event was well organized, she said.
“They actually did execute it very well, and it 
could’ve been a lot worse than it actually was,” she said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org Students interview at Southwest Rec SEE DIRECTOR,  PAGE 14
SEE ELECTIONS,  PAGE 4
SEE BRIM,  PAGE 4 Brim
He left Mississippi State to come to UF4   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
according to Alligator archives. This Fall 
marks the first time Infinity Hall will have an elected student senator, accord-ing to Alligator archives. 
When Colby went to vote, the online 
system showed her mailing address, which has an on-campus ZIP code of 32612. This is not covered under District A. But the physical Infinity Hall building has a ZIP code of 32601, the same ZIP code as District A. 
Colby’s mailing address, which she 
said is her official local address on her 
my.ufl.edu account, directed her to the 
District A ballot. 
Colby said because it was her first SG 
election, she wasn’t sure if she was sup-posed to be voting for district candidates. 
When she realized her ballot was 
wrong, Colby said she asked poll work-ers about the issue.
“I remember asking the lady about it, 
and she had no idea,” Colby said. “She said ‘I don’t know; I guess you’ll just have to pick one,’” referring to the dis-
trict candidates that appeared on Colby’s 
ballot. 
Hobbs said he called poll workers at 
about noon to notify them about the bal-
lot issue as soon as he was informed of it through an email sent by Infinity Hall candidate Chou. 
Katherine Noel, 18, said she spoke 
with an Impact Party candidate after writ-ing in a candidate while casting her vote at Marston Science Library. The District 
A candidate told her voters should have clicked the affidavit button when asked 
if the ballot showed the right district.
But Noel said she didn’t change it be-
cause she didn’t know what the affidavit button did.
“I don’t even know what that is,” 
the UF landscape architecture freshman said. “It’s really confusing.” 
After polls closed Tuesday night, 
Hobbs wrote in an email that Infinity 
Hall residents should receive proper bal-
lots today. 
“I have now been assured by our IT 
Team that all Infinity Hall residents will receive an Infinity Hall ballot,” he said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org ELECTIONS,  from pg. 3Residents received District A candidates instead of Infinity Hall candidatesCounty Jail without bond, according to archives.
Tobias said it was Armas’ indict-
ment that led police to the swampy area where the bones were found. He would not disclose what information led police to the area, citing Armas’ ongoing pros-ecution by the state attorney’s office.
Based on the information, search 
teams composed of members of the GPD SWAT team, the sheriff’s office, the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, the medical examiner’s office and the C.A. Pound laboratory searched different areas near Orange Heights, Tobias said.
During the press conference, he 
described the moment he and his col-leagues learned of the discovery — and that the most “exhaustive” missing-per-sons search local law enforcement has conducted in about four years may have ended.
“Once word reached the search area 
and the command post that Brim had been discovered, there was officers that 
knelt in prayer and in thanks that we fi-
nally have located (her),” he said. “This has been a very personal case for a lot of us.”
Brim’s family was notified of the dis-
covery at about 1:30 p.m. Tuesday and offered thanks to those involved in the search, Tobias said.
“They’re thankful for everyone that 
they’ve met under these circumstances,” he said. “They wish it was different cir-cumstances obviously, but they’re very thankful for the job that anyone associ-ated with this investigation has done.”
Since February, when a multi-agency 
search was conducted in the Orange Heights area, Tobias said GPD and the sheriff’s office headed multiple search-
es in Gainesville and eastern Alachua 
County to find Brim’s remains.
Lt. Brandon Kutner, a sheriff’s office 
spokesman, said members of the office’s Marine Operations and Underwater Re-covery Team were still on the scene looking for more remains and other pieces of evidence.
“Although it’s a sad day, we’re hap-
py to know that we can at least bring some sort of closure to the family,” Kut-ner said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgBRIM,  from pg. 3She went missing months agoSTUDENT GOVERNMENT
 By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer
Not My System made an ap-
pearance one day before Fall 
Student Government election results are announced. 
Sabrina Philipp, 22, who led 
the Not My System movement this past Spring, hosted a live stream Tuesday night on Face-book from her home in Bali to address questions from view-ers. Philipp gave documents to the Tab, an online publica-tion that will release a series of stories about The System, she said. 
“One thing I really want 
everyone to ask themselves is, ‘What would you do if you weren’t afraid?’” she said.  
Philipp, who previously ac-cused Impact Party of being a 
rebranding of Swamp Party, 
repeated that sentiment during the live stream. 
“They just put on a cute 
new logo and a new name,” 
she said.
Philipp also claimed the ex-
istence of three “blocs” within 
SG, which are coalitions of Greek sorority and fraternity houses and student organiza-
tions. She said System parties, 
like Impact, seek out minority 
students to make their parties seem more diverse. 
Philipp also accused UF 
Student Body President Susan 
Webster of preventing three 
students from becoming mem-bers of the Reitz Union Board of Managers because of their af-
filiation with Access Party. Impact President Janae 
Moodie denied all claims 
Philipp made, including the 
existence of The System within 
SG. 
“I think that Sabrina’s alle-
gations are false,” Moodie said. 
Moodie denied knowledge 
of the existence of “blocs” and said Impact does not scout out members of certain demo-graphics or affiliations. She 
said the accusations against 
Webster are false, but that the knowledge falls outside her role as Impact’s president. 
“I have never heard those 
allegations in my life, and I do not know how that would be possible,” she said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org Not My System founder hosts Q&A  about SG, Impact Party
Courtesy to the Alligator
On Tuesday, members of the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office Dive T eam found what are believed to be the bones of Hannah Brim, a Gainesville woman who went missing in January and was later presumed dead. The bones were found in a creek about three miles from the Orange Heights neighborhood in Alachua County, GPD spokesman Officer Ben T obias said.
Alligator File Photo
Sabrina Philipp takes questions during the Not My System town hall meeting at Turlington Hall on Feb. 16, 2016. On Tuesday, she hosted an online Q&A.
Tomorrow is the second and last day to vote in the 2016 Fall Student Government elections at the following locations from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.:
• Broward Hall: first floor lobby
• Health Science Center: C2-041C
• Jennings Hall: first floor library
• Law School (Bruton-Geer Hall): side hallways by cafeteria
• Marston Science Library: main room
• Murphree Area Commons: conference area, Room 106
• Norman Hall: Education Library
• Reitz Union: computer lab on the lower level
• Southwest Recreation Center: cafe near entrance on left side*
• Springs Area Office: Room C202
• Stuzin Hall: Conference Room 200
*The polling station at Southwest Recreation Center will not 
be open until 9:30 a.m. due to the Career Showcase.By Ismelda Alvarez
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A multimillion dollar grant to 
UF’s College of Education will help 
researchers detect and help stu-dents with emotional disorders. 
The Institute of Education Sci-
ences granted UF $3.5 million to conduct a trial of Social-Emotional Learning Foundations, which is a curriculum designed to help kinder-garten and ﬁ  rst-grade students learn about and express their emotions. The program will start this year and run through 2020, said Ann Daunic, 
a primary investigator. 
During the ﬁ  rst three years of 
the study, 60 schools, 360 teachers 
and classrooms with about 1,440 children at risk for emotional-be-havior disorders will be recruited in Florida, she said. 
This year, researchers will be 
working with students in coun-
ties throughout the state, including Marion, Levi, Putnam, Bradford 
and Baker, she said.  
The research will take place dur-
ing the academic year, she said. She hopes teaching elementary school-ers to express and manage their emotions will help future academic performance.
“We are hoping to ﬁ  nd out 
whether our approach and curricu-lum are helping kids in their social development,” Daunic said.
The curriculum is built around picture books, chosen by the re-searchers, to discuss emotions and feelings students may experience, said Stephen Smith, an investiga-
tor. Teachers will go through the 
books with students they think may be at risk of emotional-behavior disorders. 
Teachers delivering the curricu-
lum will learn about it through a two-day intensive orientation, he said.
“What we are trying to do is 
give them a vocabulary where they can start to identify those feelings,” Smith said, “which can lead to hopefully some self-regulations as it relates to social conﬂ  ict that we all have.”
Rachel Johnson, a 21-year-old 
UF elementary education senior, said SELF will give the kids an ac-tivity upon which to build social skills. 
She said it is important to un-
derstand children’s behavior and expects SELF will help. 
“I think it’ll beneﬁ  t them greatly 
to catch it early in kids who display 
such character, and as teachers, 
it’ll help us reach it early,” Johnson said.By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF debate team and a 
pro-gun student group faced off Tuesday, arguing about whether students and faculty should be al-lowed to discretely carry weapons on campus.
At a debate sponsored by Stu-
dents for Concealed Carry at UF and the UF Speech and Debate Team, some argued that allowing 
guns at UF would threaten cam-pus safety, while others said guns 
would enhance safety.
The campus carry question ﬁ  rst 
entered the public eye when Flor-ida House Bill 0163, which would allow licensed gun owners to carry 
weapons on university campuses, was ﬁ  led in Sept. 2015. The bill 
eventually failed.
Gloria Li, a 19-year-old UF en-
vironmental science sophomore, said she would be uncomfortable walking through campus know-
ing someone could be carrying a 
weapon.
“It doesn’t take an Omar Ma-
teen to wreak havoc with a gun,” she said. “It takes any disgruntled student with a temper.”
But in contrast, Bridget Sullivan, 
a UF nutritional sciences freshman, said a lack of training or protection 
can turn students into victims.
As a female college student fac-
ing the threat of sexual assault or 
robbery, the 18-year-old would feel safer if she were allowed to carry a weapon, she said.
“I should not have to be fearful 
when walking after dusk,” Sullivan said. “I should not have to place 
my safety in the hands of a bottle 
of pepper spray, a whistle or anoth-er device which would provide me with a false sense of protection.”
Dennis Callaghan, 19, who 
judged the debate, voted in favor of the pro-carry side, partially be-cause some of their members’ ar-
guments could not be effectively 
rebutted.
One such argument pointed out 
Florida already allows concealed carry in public areas. Because it is usual for students to feel un-comfortable off campus, legalizing campus carry should have no bear-ing on their perceived safety, he 
said.
“It was a fairly good argument 
since most of the negative points 
centered around comfort,” the UF mathematics sophomore said. “(But) no one walks off campus and feels the weight of concealed carry.”
@Jawosmond
Josmond@alligator.org
 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
The college received a $3.5 million grantCAMPUS
 Pro-ﬁ  rearm students, debate team discuss campus carry at UF
Jasmine Osmond / Alligator Staff
From left: Bridget Sullivan, an 18-year-old UF nutritional sciences freshman, defends concealed carry on 
campus as Gloria Li, a 19-year-old UF environmental science sophomore, cross-examines. The Campus Carry Debate event was hosted by Students for Concealed Carry at UF and the UF Speech and Debate T eam.
Pro-carry:  
• Increased safety during emergencies
• Nine states already allow itAnti-carry:
• Police, not civilians, should uphold campus safety
• Higher chance of ﬁ  rearm accidentsPROS AND CONS
College of Education to study emotional disorders in kidsThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Stem cell research: 
It’s worth it
There is a massive philosophical question surrounding 
the use of stem cells in medical research. Part of this question exists because the communication of scien-tiﬁ  c information in this country is crap. The myths of-tentimes are inseparable from the facts. This is why, 
embarrassingly enough for us, only 70 percent of Americans believe in climate change, while an overwhelming 97 percent of scientists accept it as valid. 
But this editorial is not about the truth of stem cell research, 
which, for the record, does not employ “Indiana Jones and 
the Temple of Doom” organ-harvesting practices. It is simply about an actual miracle that recently happened as a direct re-sult of stem cell research.
Kristopher Boesen of Bakersﬁ  eld, California was involved 
in a horriﬁ  c car accident several months ago. On March 6, 
he was driving on a wet road and crashed his car into a tele-phone pole, resulting in an injury to his spine that left him paralyzed from the neck down.
Two months later, Boesen began a clinical trial in which 
stem cells were injected into the damaged part of the spine. Roughly two weeks after this surgery, Boesen began to show faint signs of motor function. Today, Boesen is able to feed himself, hold his cellphone up to his face, hug his parents and write his name. This man went from being unable to move to being able to brush his teeth. Have you ever tried brushing your teeth with your non-dominant hand? It feels disgusting.
Now, dear reader, listen carefully. There is no promise of 
Boesen’s long-term success. The doctors involved in ihis case 
study are rightfully apprehensive to comment on his future. 
Although things are looking up right now, experts in this ﬁ  eld are, well, experts, not psychics. It would be irresponsible and simply unfounded for them to make predictions.
Regardless, a wall has been torn down in the scientiﬁ  c 
world with this study. Boesen has proven there is something serious to investigate in the ability for undeveloped and undif-ferentiated cells to repair even the most tragic destructions of the human body.
This moral question is therefore required: How do we gen-
erate such stem cells? The most controversial and popular answer is embryos. Although we fully support a woman’s right to do what she wants with her body, we recognize quite obviously that seeds aren’t trees. Even if you accidentally planted a seed in your living room, or as awful as it is, some-one planted a seed in your living room without your consent, you’re allowed to claim your living room back. We’re just not getting into that. Nope.
There is a way to avoid all that controversy. In 2007, it was 
discovered that two human by-products could be converted into stem cells: skin cells and menstrual blood. When you read that, you might have crinkled your nose, squinted your eyes and felt gross. Get over it. Such a by-product is incred-ibly easy to collect, subverts the traditional problems found in tissue rejection and completely steers away from that moral question embryos carry. It may seem icky on the surface, but do you really think someone in Boesen’s case gives a hoot 
that period blood donations helped him regain control of his 
body? Of his life?
If, for some reason, you stand against the scientiﬁ  c explo-
ration of stem cells, despite knowing full well embryos are not a necessary component to this research, you really ought to reconsider how much value you truly put on human life. Such research made a difference in Boesen’s life. And Boesen could be any one of us.Where would our society be without discrimination?
Often, I like to ask people: How would 
the history of humanity have been different if discrimination never 
exited? 
Imagine living in the 21st century 
in a society that never experienced or under-
stood racism, judgment, classism, discern-ment or exclusion. 
A world that, since the Middle Ages, de-
veloped equalitarian ideas that allowed every-body to have the same rights and privileges. 
Imagine the scientiﬁ  c, technological, social and phil-
osophical advances that this society would have made. 
All that time spent creating labels, diminishing ideas 
that are different and feeding the desire for power and control has been wasted — because nowadays, perspec-tives are changing. 
As a scientist, I like to question myself about the 
advances that we could have made. 
I believe today we would have a better understanding 
of climate change because we would have learned 
meteorology from the Mayans. 
In medicine, we would have incorporated ancient 
Native American plant knowledge to treat common diseases. 
In the ﬁ  eld of astronomy, we would be able to track 
stars and their life cycles if scientists like Galileo were allowed to share their ideas. 
Sometimes I wish this world were 
motivated by knowledge and progress rather 
than the pursuit of power and control. 
For some, this sounds utopian, fantastic 
and unattainable. 
Why? Why do we have to limit what is 
possible in our society? Why do we have to 
keep repeating the same degrading trends of our past?
As a member of society, I like to broaden 
my perspectives, and I have convinced myself that at 
the end of the day all that matters is what we leave 
behind. 
Companies, big bank accounts, loans, cars, clothes 
and other materials that make us think we own 
something just give us a temporary sense of control and 
possession. 
In reality, we are going to be remembered by the 
things we did for others and the way we affected other lives. 
We have come to associate recognition with success. 
This way of thinking has led phenomena like social media, trends and the craving for attention to push us toward misanthropic behavior. 
In other words, we seem to believe having a lot of 
followers online makes us good and important people.
I challenge you to take three steps back and 
appreciate your surroundings, realize opportunities for altruism and try to get involved. 
If you try to break the cycle and challenge old ideas, 
you might just ﬁ  nd a sense of fulﬁ  llment.
Andrea Taboada is a UF microbiology senior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Andrea 
T aboada
opinions@alligator.org
“In reality, we are going to be 
remembered by the things we did 
for others and the way we 
afected other lives.”WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
I was a baby for the first 20 years of my 
life — or at least it felt that way. There was always something I wasn’t old enough to do: drive, buy cigarettes, join the Army, gamble, drink or enter a bar. 
You see, I had always wanted to be treated like an adult, ever since I consciously under-stood there were legal differences based on age.
Before I turned 16 and got my driver’s 
license, I had to rely on my parents for 
rides. I lived in a suburb in South Florida, 
surrounded by miles of scorching asphalt, 
packed with shiny cars. Sure, there were little oases: shopping malls, supermarkets and even the occasional movie theater, but these were few and far between. To get to 
one without a car was virtually impossible. 
I resented my parents for their absolute au-thority over where I could go and when. 
The only escape I discovered was at the 
age of 14, when my neighborhood friends and I would sneak out of our houses and ride skateboards to the 24-hour Wal-Mart about a mile outside of the housing development. We drank energy drinks and tried to kickflip in the vast, dark super-
center parking lot.
Then, I was 16, and I could 
drive around. It was incredible. I 
started dating a girl who seemed to like me, but she might have just liked my car. 
We hung around the mall, 
went to the movies and had sex in the back seat of my Ford. She stole Marlboro Lights 
from her mom, and we smoked at the park 
behind our high school. 
There were caveats to being 16, though. 
My parents gave me a strict 11 o’clock cur-few. When she and I eventually broke up, I had no way of to obtain cigarettes, which I had grown quite a fondness for.
I turned 18. This meant no more hop-
ping from gas station to gas station until 
some clerk didn’t ask for my ID when I asked for a pack of Marlboro 
Lights. I bought cigarettes and porn and lottery tickets and spray paint and switchblades and got my nose pierced.
Still, there’s little to do when 
you’re 18 and living with your parents. The places where it was acceptable to just hang around with your friends were the same places where big tattooed bounc-ers would ask for your ID, charge 
you a $5 premium if you were under 21 and give your hands the emasculating 
black Xs of youth.
However, I could still attend concerts. 
I just had to check Facebook event pages 
for that depressing “21+” before I made plans. I recall one show this past summer, when I was 20. Colleen Green was playing at a bar in Miami called Gramps. I checked the event page: no 21+. All clear. So, I drove an hour south of my suburb to Wyn-
wood, only to run into a terrible bouncer.“ID, please,” the bouncer said.
I hand him my ID.“Sorry, you can’t come in.”“Dude, just give me the Xs,” I said.“This is a bar. You can’t enter if you’re 
under 21.”
“This is bullsh--; just let me in. I drove 
an hour to come here.”
“Well, you’re definitely not coming in 
with that attitude.”
I turned 21 a few weeks ago, so the days 
of angrily pacing outside of bars looking for a way to sneak in are in the past. 
I can legally drink, I can buy cigarettes, 
I can rent a hotel room — hell, I can even join the Army. 
I figured I should get all of this out of 
my system before I inevitably stop caring about the minor inconveniences I faced be-fore I turned 21.
Actually, it’s pretty messed up that I 
still can’t rent a car. 
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
The best thing about studying abroad 
in China was the food. I ate every-thing my stomach could fit — and 
then some. I ate a different kind of 
ice cream almost every day, and 
each one cost less than a dollar. Trying street food became a hobby. While I often 
went to different cafes to study at night, one 
thing they all had in common was their low prices. I could knock back three cappucci-nos topped with cute foam art for the price of a single grande pumpkin spice latte.
They say studying abroad is expensive. 
That is a fact. But I did not fully realize the difference in lifestyles our ugly American currency could bring. 
At home, I try to eat out as little as pos-
sible. In Chengdu, China, I was making it rain for some red bean buns and the best fried rice I ever had. It was awesome. It was amazing. It was slightly elitist. 
When we go on these great journeys 
to other countries as students, we do not often think of how our American status impacts our experience. When I traveled abroad, I was never really afraid. I was happily lost 
in all three airports I had to run 
through to catch my flights, but my heart didn’t skip a beat from real worry. I approached life with 
a sense that it would work itself 
out. Lost after getting off at the wrong subway stop? Adventure time! That place I just wandered through was off-limits to tourists? 
How interesting!
My American status came with a sense 
of calm and control and, most importantly, 
financial stability. It allowed me to experi-
ence being in a foreign country with mini-
mal worry.  Moments that could have been dangerous were awkward and funny in-stead. I could go to the embassy if I really needed help. I could always find someone 
who could speak English. If anything bad 
happened, I could soothe myself with the knowledge that I could return home at the end of my study easily. I didn’t have to think about how I was go-ing to get home if anything politi-
cal happened to make my return 
difficult.
We do not always see these 
scenarios for the privileges that 
they are. As English speakers, 
we are not often forced to speak another language or even under-stand the culture of our destina-tion. 
From racing up the stairs of a temple 
with my able body to expecting internet ev-erywhere I go, I have privilege. Very little is out of my reach. If something is, I can argue 
for it in my neat little American accent. The 
security of my American status is nothing to scoff at.
So, here is what you do. First, you lose 
the concept of class. Leave it at home if 
you’re not willing to throw it away just yet. 
The designators of having or not having “class,” good manners, proper English and tasteful appearance are toxic because they place value on a person for some behavior or appearance that isn’t economically fea-
sible for everyone. I don’t own Kate Spade; 
I will never own Kate Spade. If I ever have Kate-Spade money, I will spend it on grocer-ies. The vernacular someone uses shouldn’t 
indicate their worth the same way an ac-
cent should have no bearing. Instead of us-ing someone’s speech as an indication of intelligence, give people the same awkward smile I got when I spoke garbage Chinese. I 
know I appreciated it. 
Above all, be grateful. If you get to study 
abroad, you’re doing something not every-
one gets to do — something maybe your 
parents didn’t get to do. Don’t worry about 
trying to fit your American expectations and values on the place where you end up. In-stead, learn and soak it in. Appreciate the differences and what they can teach you.
Brooke Henderson is a UF journalism 
and international studies sophomore. Her column usually appears on Mondays.After finally turning 21, I realized I wanted to become an adult too quickly 
Stamp your passport,  but check your American privilege when you doColumn
Column
Brooke  
Henderson
opinions@alligator.orgJeremy  
Haas
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
GETTING PRESIDENTIAL
Bob Graham fellow and Uncle Sam impersonator Angel Gonzalez, 19, helps 19-year-old applied physiology 
and kinesiology sophomore Ilene Morgan register to vote for the first time during National Voter Registration Day at Pugh Hall. “My excitement for the presidential race is kind of dimmed out at this point, ” Gonzalez said while dressed in patriotic garb.
By Karla Arboleda
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Queer, Transgender People of 
Color Union is holding a week of events to educate others about the group.
Ellie Gaustria, the president of QTPOC, 
said the group decided to hold the week for the first time to celebrate and showcase QTPOC’s member’s narratives and identi-ties. The event, which runs through Thurs-day, is designed to show students the inter-section between being queer, transgender and a person of color.
Gaustria, a 22-year-old UF nursing 
student, said she wanted to hold the four events around campus to allow other orga-nizations, such as Pride Student Union, the Institute of Black Culture and La Casita, to work with QTPOC. 
QTPOC formed in 2011, Gaustria said, 
and she plans to hold a second week from Feb. 20 to Feb. 23.
“We’re kind of catering to a group of people who feel as if they don’t have a rep-resentation on campus,” she said. 
Danielle Kane, a 25-year-old Santa 
Fe College student, recently moved to Gainesville from Ocala for school. Kane wants to join the QTPOC to be part of a larger LGBTQ+ community. 
“I’m African American and Hispanic, 
and in Ocala, we didn’t have anything like that,” Kane said of QTPOC. “I used to per-form drag back in Ocala, but over there, everyone’s not really together.” Queer, Transgender People of Color 
Union holds first awareness weekUPCOMING EVENTS
T oday
Mental Health Panel Discussion 
7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Institute of Black Culture 
Thursday
Sexual Assault Panel Discussion7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Rainbow SuiteBy Lauren Ayers
Alligator Contributing Writer
To get at the root cause behind 
the oppression of women, the 
Gainesville chapter of National 
Women’s Liberation will offer 10 
consecutive feminism classes be-ginning today.
The weekly three-hour classes 
— which are currently full — will focus on radical feminist theory and the history of the women’s liberation movement, said Regan Garner, a member of the group’s steering committee. The classes cost $40 for members and $50 for 
non-members.
At the end of the courses, 
which will be held at 1314 NE 
12th Terrace, the participants will likely hold a rally.
Garner said she hopes the class-
es will inspire women to challenge the patriarchal status quo.
“A lot of people think of radical 
in different ways, but that’s how we look at it,” she said. “It’s get-ting to the root of what is oppress-ing women.”Garner said these types of 
courses have not been held since 
2011 because the members strug-
gled to find time around their full-time jobs. The next round of courses will hopefully be held next year.
In the current political land-
scape, feminist theory is impor-tant, Garner said.
“We have seen more women 
wanting to get up and fight back, and that’s what we are looking for,” she said.
Mackenzie Englund, a 20-year-old UF nursing junior, said she has no interest in feminism. She 
said fighting to fix harmless social 
norms is a waste of time.
“I think that in the U.S. women have already achieved equal rights with men and now the femi-
nist movement is taking it to ex-
tremes,” she said.
GNV group to offer feminism theory and history coursesBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
The reward for information 
about a Gainesville man’s mur-
der has increased to $8,000, Gainesville Police announced Monday.
Antonio Mason, 35, died 
July 27 after being shot in the chest by two masked men in a late-night home invasion, which took place in the 800 block of NW Fourth Place, according to Alligator archives.
His killers were never caught.Mason’s 11-month-old 
daughter, whom he was hold-ing during the invasion, and a bystander both sustained non-life-threatening injuries during the shooting.
The initial reward after the 
shooting was $3,000, according to Alligator archives. In late Au-gust, GPD increased it to $5,000 
after not receiving many tips 
from the original award.
GPD reached out to 
CrimeStoppers of Alachua Coun-ty and Gilchrist County about getting extra funding to increase the re-
ward once again, GPD 
spokes-
man Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. 
Tobias  
said he 
hopes the reward spike moti-vates witnesses or those with 
information on the shooting to 
come forward.
“We are still working leads 
and do not have any suspects identified at this time,” he said.
To be eligible for the full re-
ward, credible information must be submitted to CrimeStoppers by calling 352-372-STOP or by 
visiting stopcrime.tv.
Anyone with information can 
also call detectives at 352-393-
7670. Those who wish to remain anonymous can call in tips to 352-3939-7700 or text “GPDFL” and the tip to 274637.
costroff@alligator.org
@ceostroffReward increased 
to $8,000 for information on unsolved murders
Mason
GOALS OF THE COURSE
• Learn the origins of the feminist movement
• Understand radical feminist theory
• Organize plans to “fight back”WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-30-16-29-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
10-12-16-20-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca 
East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress SaleNew - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
ACROSS
1 Gain experience
(from)
6 Leg muscle
10 World Golf Hall of
Famer Karrie
14 First host of “The
Tonight Show”
15 Like some history
16 Original thought
17 Old-time bandits
20 “The Time
Machine” race
21 Goes out
22 First extra inning
23 Dallas Mavericks
org.
25 Old Mideast
alliance: Abbr.
26 Narc’s quarry32 Nova Scotia hrs.
35 City SW of St.
Augustine
36 Young boys
37 Place for a
pedicure
38 Special forces
mission
42 Bi- halved43 Cambodian cash44 Polar explorer45 Butter-on-hot-
griddle sound
46 Anonymous
holiday gift giver
48 Bowl-shaped
cookware
49 __ in: surround50 Delta rival, as it
was once known
53 Tosca’s “Vissi
d’arte,” e.g.
56 Magic charm60 Air marshal’s
possession
63 “The Mod Squad”
role
64 Automation prefix65 Superman’s
makeup?
66 __ code67 Mess offering68 Brits’ boob tube
DOWN
1 Pathetic, as an
excuse
2 Airline to
Jerusalem
3 In addition
4 Put the spark
back into, as a
relationship5 Salem-to-
Portland dir.
6 It may help with a
mop
7 Many a Syrian
8 Metallica
drummer Ulrich
9 St. with a
panhandle
10 Three-lane, 
vis-à-vis two-lane
11 “I Dream of
Jeannie” star
12 Buddy of Kermit
13 Big party18 Leader with a
.edu address
19 Beehive State
24 Animal
symbolizing the
25-Down
25 World power
inits. until ’91
26 Magical start27 Tappable
cellphone images
28 “Miles Smiles”
trumpeter
29 Poker-faced30 Come to a point
31 Fred’s dancing
sister
32 Chinese or
Japanese
33 Hurling or curling34 Tucker of country
39 Taxing trip
40 Semicircular
church section
41 One who might
go to bat for you?
46 Achy47 January warm
spell
48 Modern witch’s
religion
50 Home of the
NCAA’s Bruins51 Evening in
Quebec
52 Klein of fashion53 Lotion additive
54 Singer McEntire
55 Star adored by
many
57 Autobahn auto
58 “Piano Man” man
59 __ child61 Branch62 Approx. repair
cost
By Timothy L. Meaker©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/28/1609/28/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, September 28, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 WantedWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Part-time customer service sales associate.Fill out an application in store.The UPS Store #2715, 5745 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL M-F 9am-7pm • Saturdays 9am-5pm     9-28-16-5-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Babysitter wanted, afternoons/evenings, $12/hr for kids age 7-13. Help drive kids from school/to activities, light housekeeping (dish-es, laundry, feed meals), play with 7 yr old, help with homework. Babysitting experience and car required, must be reliable. Email re-sume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu    9-30-16-3-14
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
PT janitorial office/home/apartment cleaners needed ASAP day and night shifts available. Weekly pay and gas distributed $8.50/hr and must own and drive own car..If interested please call 352-214-0868      10-3-16-5-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Free college football prediction competition with $500 prize. 1 week left to register. For details check out http://www.thesportpick.com/college-foot -
ball-contest/      9-28-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!
LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
SALES ASSOCIATESGainesville Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram has sales opportunities for enthusiastic candi -
dates and we're willing to provide additional training to help develop your talents!  We are looking for full and part time associates and can offer a flexible schedule for students.  Many of our leads are inbound through the internet – we need staff to follow up via email and phone calls to get customers the information and pricing on our new and pre-owned vehicles.
We are a family owned dealership offering 
excellent working conditions with THE BEST 
PAY ON MAIN STREET!  If you have strong 
customer service skills and the drive to be successful, we want to talk to you!  Valid driver’s license & clean driving record re-quired.  Must be willing to submit to a back-ground check & drug screen.  EOE/DFWP  
 Send resume togreatdealershipjobs@gmail.com or apply in person, Mon - Fri; 9am - 4pm   3000 N Main Street ▪ Gainesville    9-30-16-4-14
1. COMICS: What is the name of 
Batman’s butler?
2. LITERATURE: Who is the leader 
of the wolves in “The Jungle Book”?
3. GEOGRAPHY: Which two 
islands in the Mediterranean Sea are 
governed by Italy? 
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was 
president during World War I?
5. HISTORY: What was the name 
of the airship that exploded over New Jersey in 1937?
6. LANGUAGE: What is a baby’s 
pacifier called in Great Britain?
7. EXPLORERS: What was the 
name of Christopher Columbus’ flag-ship?
8. NICKNAMES: What U.S. city 
calls itself “The Biggest Little City in 
the World”?
9. MEDICAL: What is the modern 
name for a disease once called “con-
sumption”?
10. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: What 
children’s author wrote, “You have brains in your head. You have feet in your shoes. You can steer yourself in any direction you choose”?
Answers
1. Alfred Pennyworth
2. Akela
3. Sicily and Sardinia4. Woodrow Wilson5. Hindenburg6. A dummy7. Santa Maria8. Reno, Nev.9. Tuberculosis10. Dr. Seuss
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 26, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 PersonalsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida athletics director Jeremy Foley has had a lasting impact on UF players and coaches.Read the story on pg.15"I don't know that we need gold-plated toilets ... I think you 
need to have really nice facilities."
New athletics director Scott Stricklin on UF's athletic facility upgradesWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Halfway into his introductory 
press conference as Florida’s new-est athletic director, Scott Stricklin said something that caught Kevin 
O’Sullivan’s attention. 
“I love college baseball,” Strick-
lin said.  O’Sullivan, UF’s baseball 
coach, was giddy with excitement. 
“I was like, ‘Heck yeah,’” he 
said. “But I know that. I knew that 
before he got here.”On Tuesday, Stricklin made 
it clear he plans to support all of Florida’s sports. But that support was especially apparent for base-ball.
“I’ve seen a lot of SEC baseball 
games from my roles in different schools in the past, and I’m really excited to work with Sully and what he’s got built here,” Strick-lin said. “I think it’s a great sport, right? And Florida’s been really good at it, and I think we’re going to make sure this facility matches that.”
Speciﬁ  cally, Stricklin said he’s 
looking forward to progressing the recently announced plans this month to renovate McKethan Sta-dium. Additions to the baseball stadium include new club seat-ing, a second-level concourse, an expanded press box and improved player amenities. 
Before becoming Missis-
sippi State’s Director of Athlet-ics, Stricklin spent plenty of time around baseball programs. 
He served as Auburn’s baseball 
contact as an associate media rela-tions director from 1993-98. And as a student at MSU, he worked for the baseball team’s media de-partment. 
O’Sullivan, who hadn’t met 
with Stricklin prior to Tuesday’s press conference, said Stricklin’s words were reassuring. 
“It is nice to know that,” he 
said. “And I think that’s one of the things I really enjoyed with Jer-emy [Foley] and Chip [Howard] is that they are avid baseball fans, and you can look up in the stands, and they came to a lot of games. And obviously having Scott here and him being involved, it should be exciting.”
Considering O’Sullivan’s long-
time relationship with UF’s outgo-ing AD, Jeremy Foley, one might think he would’ve been concerned as to who would ﬁ  ll the job next.
After all, Foley gave O’Sullivan 
the Florida job nine years ago de-Scott Stricklin's baseball history excites Florida coach  
O 'Sullivan was reassured by new AD
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15Alligator File Photo
Florida coach Kevin O'Sullivan is reassured by new UF athletics director Scott Stricklin's commitment to upgrading Florida's baseball facilities. "I had total faith that they were gonna ﬁ  nd somebody that they thought was gonna be successful here, " O'Sullivan said. 
UF WILL FUND 
PLAN THROUGH 
DONATIONS AND 
BORROWED MONEY.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
After being introduced as 
Florida’s new athletics direc-
tor on Tuesday, Scott Stricklin said he intends to carry out 
Florida’s athletic facility up-
grades as planned. 
Florida's proposed “master 
plan” includes the construc-
tion of a new football complex 
as well as renovations to UF’s baseball and softball stadiums. The plan will cost about $100 
million to complete, according 
to the University Athletic As-sociation. Florida plans to fund as 
much as possible through do-nations, but UF president Kent Fuchs said Tuesday that if enough money isn’t raised, the 
university will take on debt to 
complete the project.
“We’re gonna raise a lot 
of money,” Fuchs said. “We 
want our generous friends to 
fund all of it. But if we’re not able to, we’re gonna borrow it. We’re gonna make it happen.”
Stricklin is already familiar 
with overseeing expensive ren-ovations. At Mississippi State, he led facility upgrades that 
totalled $140 million and said 
he incurred debt to make them happen. 
He endorsed taking on 
debt if enough money can’t be raised at Florida as well. 
“We want to use our re-sources to make us better,”  
Stricklin said. “And if (taking 
on debt) is an instrument that we can use — that we think we can do that in a way that 
doesn’t hurt the overall health 
of the ﬁ  nancial picture — I’m not opposed to doing that. We’ve done that in the past.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org Florida willing to take on debt for new athletic facilities 
Fuchs
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Seniors Maria Torres and Karolina Vlckova 
delivered for the Gators in the final round of the 
ANNIKA Classic in Orlando.
Torres, the only Gator to place in the top-10, 
tied for sixth place with an 8-under-par score, while Vlckova carded a team-high eight birdies 
en route to a 3-under-par tournament perfor
-
mance and a share of 21st.
Behind the play of Torres and Vlckova, the 
Gators ended the ANNIKA Classic in fifth place with a 16-under-par score. 
“I’m really happy for the team,” coach Emi
-
ly Glaser said in a release. “Today, every one of them showed tremendous fight and resilience.”
That fight showed, as three Gators finished 
either at or below par.
On top of leading the Gators, Torres col
-
lected three birdies and no bogeys on Tuesday.
And aside from her eight birdies, Vlckova 
only carded two bogeys, posting 6 under par in the final round. 
In her debut for Florida, freshman Carlotta 
Ricolfi bounced back from a quadruple bogey on the first hole by railing off three birdies and 
one bogey, finishing the tournament at even 
par in a tie for 27th. 
Freshman Marta Perez struggled on the 
front nine, carding two bogeys and no birdies, but improved on the back nine with three bird
-ies and no bogeys. She finished at 1 over par, good for a share of 34th. 
Sophomore Sam Wagner finished in a tie for 
40th at four over par with four bogeys and one birdie Tuesday.
“I’m not sure we had our best stuff this 
week, but that’s okay,” Glaser said. “It’s all 
part of the learning process, and I know each of them will take something away from this 
weekend.”
The Gators will have a short break before 
the start of the next tournament, when they travel to Evanston, Illinois, to participate in the 
Windy City Classic.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgBy Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
In Week 3, NFL fans witnessed 
a former Gator quarterback main-
tain New England’s perfect record 
on Thursday Night Football. Fans  
also watched playmakers on Phil-adelphia and Washington come up big in rivalry wins, two former 
national champions showcased 
their veteran presence on defense 
and four rookies from the class of 2016 stuffed the stat sheet as Flor-ida alumni engaged in a memo-
rable Week 3. First starting win for rookie 
QB:
Jacoby Brissett scored his first 
NFL touchdown 13 minutes into 
Thursday night’s matchup in New England. The former Gator and 
NC State transfer faked a handoff 
and rolled to the right before cut-ting upfield. Twenty-seven yards later, the 
third-string rookie bulldozed into 
the endzone to put the Patriots up 
10-0 over Houston. 
Brissett jogged off the field, 
giving the ball to coach Bill 
Belichick. By the end, they both 
gave Patriots fans a 27-0 win and a 3-0 record.
Brissett was no world beater in 
his first start, finishing 11 for 19 with 103 passing yards. And ex-cluding his long TD run, he aver-aged 3 yards per carry on seven attempts. But he didn’t turn the ball over and has a shot to start again this week — depending on the recovery of second-string QB Jimmy Garoppolo. 
New England was one of five 
teams to finish week three with a perfect record. 
NFC East playmakers:Philadelphia is also off to a 3-0 
start, this week collecting a deci-sive 34-3 win over Pittsburgh on Sunday. 
Former Gator receiver Trey 
Burton pulled in a 16-yard catch in the first half and finished with 19 yards on the day. 
Kicker Caleb Sturgis went 4-4 
on extra points and nailed two field goals from 29 and 38 yards. 
Another NFC East contender 
had a win highlighted by former Gators on Sunday.
Washington’s win over the Gi-
ants saw running back Matt Jones rush for 65 yards, while Redskins’ star tight end Jordan Reed caught four passes for 56 yards.
Receiver-defensive back hy-brid Quinton Dunbar showed up on both sides of the stat sheet. Dunbar finished with one recep-
tion for 31 yards and three tackles 
on defense. 
Defensive veterans:
A couple of Florida’s defensive 
veterans had a big NFL Sunday. 
Raiders safety and captain 
Reggie Nelson picked off a pass and recovered a fumble in a win over the Titans. In addition to 
two takeaways, he finished third 
on the team in tackles. 
Cincinnati defensive lineman 
Carlos Dunlap also disrupted the opposing offense on Sunday de-
spite a loss to the Broncos. Dun-
lap finished the game with three 
tackles and a 6-yard sack on Den-
ver QB Trevor Siemian.
Defensive class of 2016:
A couple Atlanta rookies com-
bined for 10 total tackles on Mon-
day. In a win over New Orleans, 
first-round pick Keanu Neal fin-
ished with three solo tackles, 
while the undrafted Brian Poole 
finished with three solos and one 
tackle for loss.
More of Florida’s rookie de-
fenders showed up on the stat 
sheet on Sunday. Tampa Bay cor-
nerback Vernon Hargreaves re-
corded five solo tackles in a loss 
to Los Angeles, and Indianapo-
lis linebacker Antonio Morrison came up with three solo tackles in a win over San Diego. 
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
GATORS IN THE NFL
Brissett earns first victory as starter, defense dominates
Gators finish strong at ANNIKA ClassicThe Associated Press
Trey Burton celebrates after a touchdown against the Chicago Bears on Sept. 18. 
Alligator File Photo
Maria T orres swings during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational. 
Alligator File Photo
Karolina Vlckova (right) celebrates with coach Emily Glaser during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
Mississippi State director of athlet-
ics as accurately as possible.
Each time the committee called, 
they received the same response: 
Scott Stricklin gets it.
But before they held one last in-
terview with Stricklin, the committee 
wanted to hear from Foley.
He didn’t hesitate.
“From my heart,” Foley told 
them, “I feel like this is the absolute 
perfect person.”
When Fuchs spoke to the South-seastern Conference commissioner in June seeking advice for hiring a new athletics director, he received 
three names in return.
Stricklin was one of them.
Later that month, Fuchs and oth-
er members of the search committee called several candidates, including Stricklin, and gauged their interest in leaving their positions for a job at UF.
Some were hesitant. Some were 
comfortable with where they were and were quick to shy away from the offer. But with Stricklin, Fuchs noticed a difference.
“It’s a two-way relationship,” Fuchs said. “We have to want him, he has to want us. We looked for an AD who truly wanted to be a Florida 
Gator … and that’s what attracted 
me.”
From the first phone call, Fuchs 
said, Stricklin’s interest was obvious.
And on Tuesday, when he was 
officially announced as UF’s new athletics director, Stricklin beamed, shaking hands with UF coaches, players and university boosters.
“I think it’s the best job in college 
athletics,” Stricklin said.
He told the crowd that’s why 
his wife, Anne, and two daughters, Abby and Sophie, uprooted their lives at Mississippi State to come to Gainesville, and why his mother wore an orange and blue corsage on 
Tuesday, her birthday.
But it wasn’t an easy decision, he 
said, to leave the program he spent 
the last six years catapulting into SEC relevance.
Under Stricklin, Mississippi 
State’s football team has appeared in five consecutive bowl games. Six different MSU sports teams  — base-
ball, basketball, softball, tennis, golf and track and field— reached NCAA postseason play.
And during his tenure, Mississip-
pi State invested in and built a new basketball facility and a football com-plex and expanded its football stadi-um, all totaling about $111.7 million. The accomplishments on and off the field culminated in March, when he was named the Under Armor Athlet-ics Director of the Year.
Initially, he thought he would 
only leave his job for three schools in the nation, and he assumed those jobs would never call.
Then Florida did.“It became obvious to me that 
there’s really only one job I’d leave Mississippi State for, and that is to be a Florida Gator,” Stricklin said.
Stricklin said he believes there 
are better opportunities at Florida than almost anywhere in the coun-try. With an annual athletic budget that exceeds $100 million and is al-most double the budget of Missis-sippi State, UF gives him more free-dom to pursue plans and dreams he couldn’t imagine before.
“Going through this process, the 
thing that kinda just kept pushing me forward was, ‘this is the Uni-versity of Florida,’” Stricklin said. “There’s just not very many oppor-tunities in our profession that have the platform we have here, that have the voice on the national level we can have here.”
And with Florida’s platform, one 
of the foremost qualities it sought in a new athletic director was savviness with technology. On Tuesday, Foley told UF’s search committee he need-ed to find a replacement who was in 
touch with the changing landscape 
of college and professional athletics — one in which social and political issues are becoming more popular among athletes, one in which pro-gram budgets are increasing every year and one in which the rise of social media in sports and with the youth grows each month.
“I have trouble turning the com-
puter on,” Foley told the committee. “He’s a 21st century AD.”
At Mississippi State, Stricklin 
used his social media presence to promote athletic events and connect with fans. He said one of the big-gest tools in increasing attendance and awareness of a college’s athletic teams, especially the less popular ones, is through interacting with fans on social media.
“He understands the future of 
athletics. He understands the value of social media and he has more Twitter followers than I do,” Fuchs said. “He’ll relate to the next era. That, to me, is really important.”
But Manny Fernandez, the chair 
of the UF search committee, recog-nized a different quality in Stricklin that he said isn’t apparent in many other professionals in the business.
“I think he’s totally honest,” Fer-
nandez said. “I’ve only known him a month-and-a-half or whatever, right? But he gets it.”
When Stricklin officially starts 
Nov. 1 and takes over for Foley, who Stricklin called the best athletics di-rector in the history of the SEC, there will be no shortage of challenges.
Stricklin said that’s nothing new.“Every day you wake up in this 
profession and there’s a challenge,” Stricklin said. “I don’t know what those challenges are going to look like, but I know we’re gonna have them. And we’re in a good spot to attack them.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
Grace King / Alligator Staff
New UF athletics director Scott Stricklin (left) and university President Kent Fuchs converse before the UAA Board of Directors unanimously voted to make Stricklin the new AD. Stricklin will be Florida’s 14th athletic director. 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Scott Stricklin addresses reporters, family members and others on Tuesday at the Otis Hawkins Center. 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
The UAA board votes to approve Scott Stricklin as UF’s new athletics director on Tuesday in the Kelly Smith conference room at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
DIRECTOR,  from pg 3From first phone call, Stricklin’s interest in UF was obvious 
•   •   •WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
SCOTT STRICKLIN 
AT  
MISSISSIPPI STATE
• Advanced 11 teams to NCAA 
postseason play in 2014-15
• Named the 2015-16 Under Armor Athletic Director of the Year
• Oversaw the construction 
of $11.7 million women's 
basketball facility 
• Planned a $25 million football 
complex
• Orchestrated $75 million in 
expansion and upgrades to MSU's football stadium
• Eight MSU teams earned top 25 rankings during 2014-15 season
• MSU football team has played in five consecutive bowl games
spite O’Sullivan’s lack of head 
coaching experience as an assis-tant coach for Clemson.But O’Sullivan didn’t lose any 
sleep over the search process.
“For me, I didn’t worry about 
it,” he said. “I had total faith that they were gonna find somebody 
that they thought was gonna be successful here. I didn’t really spend a whole lot of time think-
ing about it.”
And Foley, a baseball fan him-
self, knows Stricklin is equipped 
to help maintain UF baseball’s level of excellence. 
“Mississippi State’s famous 
for their baseball,” Foley said. 
“They’ve done a great job with that. They won the conference 
title a year ago. They played for it all a couple years ago. He un-derstands what big time baseball 
is about.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 12O 'Sullivan: 'He understands what big time baseball is about 'Grace King / Alligator Staff
From left: Executive associate athletics director Lynda T ealer and athletic director Jeremy Foley watch 
Scott Stricklin's introductory press conference at the Otis Hawkins Center on Tuesday.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Before he was hired, J.C. Dea-
con made UF athletics director 
Jeremy Foley a promise. 
The then-prospective men’s 
golf coach said he was going to win the Gators a national champi-onship — its first since 2001. 
So far that hasn’t happened. 
And with Foley set to retire on Nov. 1, it won’t happen during his tenure. 
But that doesn’t matter to Dea-
con. 
“He’s promised me that he’s 
gonna be there on the 18th green to give me a big hug when we do 
win it one day,” Deacon said. “So 
I’m holding him to that.” 
That type of personal engage-
ment, Deacon added, is what sets Foley apart from other athletics directors. When the golf team played a tournament in Nevada last season, Deacon remembers 
Foley calling ahead of the tourna-
ment to offer encouragement. 
“Those are the little things that 
are really special to me,” Deacon 
said, “and that I’ll always remem-
ber.”
Foley will be replaced by Scott 
Stricklin, the now-former Missis-sippi State director of athletics. And when he takes over after Foley retires on Nov. 1, building 
relationships in the mold of Foley 
won’t be the only challenge he faces.
However, he thinks that part 
of his new job will be easy. At least as it applies to coaches. 
“It’s just supporting someone 
you trust and believe in,” he said. 
But Kahlia Warner, who was 
a diver at Florida from 2013 to 2016, said Foley’s relationships extended beyond the coaches, reaching the athletes as well. 
Every year, she said, he hosts 
a barbecue at the beginning of fall where he tells all of UF’s athletes how special Florida’s athletic brand is before reeling off a list 
of individual accomplishments, 
ranging from national titles to academic All-America honors. 
“I left that meeting thinking, 
‘Wow, what I’ve gotten myself into is gonna be incredible,’” she said. “And so I kinda just took that with me for the rest of my four years.”
Former Florida gymnast Mor-
gan Frazier also feels that Foley’s relationship with individual ath-letes made him special. 
“He always makes a point to 
get to know every single one of his athletes,” she said, “which always left a great impression on me.”
Another attribute of Foley’s 
that former Florida athletes, coaches and even President Kent 
Fuchs brought up is his integrity. 
Fuchs called his approach “do-
ing the right thing the right way,” 
and he was confident that Strick-
lin will continue to embrace that 
attitude, as was Foley. 
“Every time you make those 
phone calls, they come up aces," said Foley, who called several 
people close to Stricklin to vet his 
personality. "That’s who he is, and that’s what’s in his heart.”
Because of that, Foley said 
he’s not nervous about handing over the program he’s spent near-ly 25 years building. 
“I’m gonna be able to put my 
head down tonight and know 
they’re in good hands. They’re in 
great hands, and I mean that from the bottom of my heart.”
Warner agrees, but added that 
it won’t be easy to follow Foley.
“I definitely, definitely think 
he has big shoes to fill,” she said. “But I think he’s aware of that.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgAD faces tough task in replacing Foley•   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •
•   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •16   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s and wom-
en’s cross country teams collected 
their second-straight sweep on 
Saturday, and they hope to carry 
their success into Pennsylvania.
The Gators will compete against 
some of the nation’s top talent this 
Saturday at the Paul Short Run 
hosted by Lehigh University.
“It’s a good opportunity to see 
where we stack up against some of the best runners in the country,” 
coach Paul Spangler said on Mon-
day.
On the men’s side, senior Car-
los Miranda has stepped up as the 
team leader. Miranda has posted 
the team’s top times in each of the ﬁ  rst two meets, ﬁ  nishing sec-ond overall at the Covered Bridge Open and ﬁ  rst at last weekend’s 
Mountain Dew Invitational.
 “He’s led by example,” Span-
gler said. “He’s come in and 
worked well with (volunteer 
coach) Eddie Garcia… He’s fed 
off Eddie and his leadership style and really transferred that to the other athletes on the team and the younger athletes.”
After a solid start to the season, 
consistency seems to be the focus for Miranda as he heads into the weekend. Miranda and his team-
mates will look to match their sea-
son-opening performances, espe-cially with only a week to prepare between meets.
“That’s the key for Carlos (Mi-
randa) is consistency,” Spangler said. “I think he’s ﬁ  gured that out.”
On the women’s side, senior Taylor Tubbs has taken on a lead-ership role. Tubbs ﬁ  nished in the top ﬁ  ve in both of the Gators’ opening meets.
If Miranda and Tubbs can carry 
their leadership and success into Lehigh, the Gators think they have a good shot at competing for cov-eted at-large points, which are 
used to advance in the postseason.
Along with the senior leaders, 
look for touted Florida freshmen 
to make an impact at the Paul Short.
Colin Schaefer ﬁ  nished third 
over the weekend, much to the surprise of his coach.
“I didn’t see that coming,” said 
Spangler. “Nothing had indicated that he (Schaefer) was ready to be our second guy, and some athletes are like that … he comes out there and just competes on race day.”
And freshman Jessica Pascoe 
looks to be a force for the women.
Pascoe ﬁ  nished second overall 
and ﬁ  rst among Gators in her de-
but, ﬁ  nishing behind only senior 
All-American Anne-Marie Blaney of Central Florida.
Even with the success of the 
freshmen, the team’s dynamic 
hasn’t changed, according to 
Spangler.
“We’re a team,” he said. “The 
upperclassmen (are) certainly 
looking at the new athletes coming 
in, they’ve embraced them… It’s a great team atmosphere at practice. And everybody knows we’ve got the same goal in mind, and that’s 
to contend for a SEC title and get 
these teams to nationals.”
@mstinejr.
mstine@alligator.org Seniors Miranda,Tubbs  
stepping up for Florida 
cross coun try team
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
T aylor Tubbs runs at the Mountain Dew Invitational on Saturday at 
the Mark Bostick Golf Course.
