We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 110 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016
Florida baseball swept 
Eastern Michigan
The Gators are still undefeated, pg. 13
Woman crashes SUV into pharmacy
No one was injured, pg. 3
Science ﬁ  ction, steampunk Cuban author visits  UF
He talked about gender and sexual orientation in Cuba, pg. 5Check out the Avenue
Q&A, band reviews, murals 
and music festivals, pgs. 7-10
By Karla Arboleda
Alligator Contributing Writer
Starbucks recently announced 
an upcoming change to its rewards 
program.
Currently, patrons receive one 
star per transaction, and Gold-Level 
members can redeem a reward after 
earning 12 stars. In April, members will earn two stars for every $1 spent, spokeswoman Aimee Johnson wrote on the company’s blog Monday.
Members will then need 300 stars 
to reach Gold Level, as opposed to the current 30, and 125 stars for a reward, such as free food or a bever-age, Johnson wrote.
Dani Ruadez, a 19-year-old UF 
anthropology sophomore, said the changes could deter her from using the program.
“I don’t think it evens out be-
cause, realistically, the majority of people who aren’t college students… aren’t going to Starbucks every day,” said Ruadez.
Natalia Cuervo, an employee at 
the Starbucks at Reitz Union, said customers will have to spend dou-ble to earn the same rewards. The change also means free publicity, said Cuervo, a 20-year-old UF nurs-ing sophomore.
“I don’t think people are going to 
stop going,” she said, “and I think I know for a fact that that’s why Star-bucks is doing it.”
Johnson said the change is com-
ing after years of customer requests, but Cuervo said she believes the change will hurt customers and em-ployees.
“I feel like as a barista, the way 
this affects me is this exploits my labor,” said Cuervo, “because, as a barista, Starbucks is going to keep making money and making more 
money no matter what… my pay is 
going to stay the same.”  Starbucks revamps stars program 
By Katelyn Newberg 
and Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writers
The third and ﬁ  nal candidate for vice 
president of Student Affairs emphasized the 
importance of diversity and tradition.
On Wednesday morning, David Parrott 
came to UF to speak with faculty, staff and students about his qualiﬁ  cations. He cur-rently serves as executive associate vice 
president of Student Affairs and chief of staff at Texas A&M University.
In Bryan Hall, Parrott told about 70 UF 
faculty and staff members it’s important to 
increase diversity on campus to prepare stu-dents for careers.
“We need diversity if for no other reason 
than to prepare ourselves to be leaders in 
that larger world,” he said.
He said if he gets the position, he will 
teach students about UF’s history without 
erasing the times UF wasn’t welcoming.
“Let’s make sure that we teach our his-
tory and talk about the lessons learned,” he said. “This occurred back then; it was wrong, and this is what we’re going to do 
today that’s right.”
While at Texas A&M, 
Parrott said he worked 
with faculty and staff to defend students’ rights to 
protest and practice free 
speech.
“Our role is not to ap-
prove or disapprove of 
free speech,” he said. “Our role is to sup-port the First Amendment.”Nadene Reynolds, the Career Resource 
Center’s associate director for professional 
development and experience, said she liked 
that UF staff had the opportunity to ask Par-rott questions.
“It’s good to be able to compare between 
the candidates,” she said.  
She said the candidates for the position 
should be considered seriously because they represent students.
Parrott also discussed equity with stu- Students, faculty meet ﬁ  nal candidate for VP of Student Aﬀ  airsEPILOGUE
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Maurice Mayberry loved to 
travel.
As the ﬁ  rst director of the Ca-
reer Resource Center, he traveled 
to all 50 states to make connec-
tions and help UF students ﬁ  nd 
jobs. After retiring in 1991, he began traveling beyond the U.S. borders with his wife, Gloria.
“They had a whole wall with 
pictures from over the years,” said Maurice Mayberry Jr., his son.
While he traveled to India, 
Austria, Finland, Iceland and China, South Africa would be his ﬁ  nal trip.
Last Friday, on Feb. 19, the 
92-year-old died of a heart con-dition at North Florida Regional Medical Center.
“Maurice Mayberry lived his 
life on his own terms,” his son 
said.  
 
      
Weather brought the Ocala, 
Florida, native back home.
After graduating from UF in 
1951 with a degree in business 
administration, he joined the FBI 
as a special agent.
He spent one year in Indiana 
before being transferred to New 
York City, where new agents were required to spend ﬁ  ve years, his son said. But Mayberry didn’t like the cold, cramped New York City living conditions.
He decided to go back to 
Gainesville, where he became the ﬁ  rst director of the CRC, May-berry Jr. said. He heard about the job after moving back and met with J. Hillis Miller, the UF presi-dent at the time, who offered him the job on the spot.
Ed Fleck, a former FBI agent, 
said he met Mayberry while re-cruiting UF students at one of his career fairs.
After talking and learning 
Mayberry was a former agent, the two quickly bonded, he said.
But it was clear, Fleck said, 
that Mayberry found his calling: helping UF students.
“The FBI was lucky to have 
Maurice, the University of Flor-ida was lucky to have Maurice and the world was lucky to have Maurice,” he said.
      
The framework for the Career 
Resource Center was there when Mayberry came to UF.
But he laid the foundation that 
CRC students have today, said Heather White, the current direc-tor of the CRC. Today, the center is one of the best in the nation.
He pushed to bring technolo-
gy into the CRC when it was just being introduced, she said.
Mayberry would call her and 
ask about the CRC since she be-came director, she said.
“It’s really a testament to him 
and who he is,” she said. “It wasn’t just his job; it was who he 
was as a person.”
Without his work, the CRC 
wouldn’t be where it is today, In memory of UF’s 
ﬁ  rst CRC director  
Parrott
SEE EPILOGUE,  PAGE 4
SEE VP, PAGE 4Customer, 
employee react to updated Starbucks 
rewards 
program
 Students, employees react
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Marival Parish, a 20-year-old UF theatre junior, prepares a frappuccino at the Hub on Wednesday. 
Starbucks will be making sweeping changes in April to its rewards program, allowing customers to earn two stars for every $1 spent compared to one star for every transaction in the current program.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
La Casita discussion
Come join the Institute of 
Hispanic-Latino Affairs and LGBT Affairs today at noon at La Casita for an engaging discussion on the 
diversity of queer Latinx fami-
lies. Free food will be provided at the luncheon, where they will discuss the many topics centered on the intersectionality of latini-dad and queerness. Please note, this event is only open to Queer/Trans People of Color (QTPOC).
Free English and citizenship 
classes offered to communityFree English classes are offered every Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m., and free citizen-ship classes are offered every Thursday from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at Millhopper Library. For more information, email info@
latinawomensleague.org or visit 
latinawomensleague.org.
Yes Means Yes
Yes Means Yes is a five-week student-run positive sexual-ity seminar that is partnered with UF’s Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education 
and GatorWell. The objective 
is to create a space and oppor-tunity for UF students to think about and verbalize what a posi-tive sexual experience means for them. Yes Means Yes is running each Thursday from March 9 to April 6. The course is capped at 35 students, who will each read 
chapters from a book by the same 
name, “Yes Means Yes,” and then engage critically, thoughtfully and compassionately with a vari-ety of topics during the seminars. Apply now: gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/programs/strive#Initiatives.
Trading Closets
Altrusa International’s annual fundraising sale of bargain-priced, high-quality women’s clothes and accessories is Saturday from 8 a.m. until noon at the Gainesville Woman’s Club, situated at 2809 W. University Ave. The event is free and open to the public.
Apply Now for 2016-17 Financial 
AidTo apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid at fafsa.ed.gov. You can file a FAFSA as early as Jan. 1 each year. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive 
the results of your FAFSA from 
the federal processor is March 15. Apply well before March 15 to ensure that the federal pro-cessor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first come, first served basis so apply as early as possible to be consid-ered for the most, and best aid. In order for UF Student Financial 
Affairs to consider you for a fi-
nancial aid package, you must be an admitted student and have met the “On-Time” deadline. For more information or assistance with completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your financial aid adviser sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 110
HIGH  64° LOW  39°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
IT’S PART OF AN 
ART ORGANIZATION 
CALLED 352CREATES.
By Joseph Garcia
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students drew on white posterboards on 
the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday.
352Creates held 352Draw as part of its 
series of 80 events, most of which will be 
held Friday throughout Gainesville and other cities in Florida. The group hopes to incor-porate art throughout Alachua County, and 
352Draw aimed to incorporate arts into stu-
dents’ lives for five minutes on campus. All events are free.
The booth was filled with blank papers 
and packs of markers promoting art therapy, 
said Amy Bucciarelli, a board-certified art 
therapist for UF Health Shands Arts in Medi-cine. Those interested drew whatever they wanted. 
Bucciarelli said most students drew pic-
tures of nature because they found it relat-able.“The event gives people a chance to show-
case themselves,” Bucciarelli said. “Creativ-ity is a lifestyle that brings joy.”
After students completed their drawings, 
they could keep them, she said. 
Bucciarelli said it just takes people five 
minutes to make a drawing and do some-
thing creative during their day.
Ariel Reich, a UF acting junior with a cer-
tificate in arts in medicine, said she wanted 
to let students express themselves through art. 
Reich completed a drawing, which she 
said she enjoyed. She also spoke to students about 352Draw as they walked by and en-couraged them to make a quick sketch. 
“It’s wonderful because not enough peo-
ple recognize the simple beauty that is in art,” the 20-year-old said. “It can improve health, well-being, while doing something you can enjoy.”
352Draw will visit downtown Gainesville 
near the restaurant Steamers today and UF Health Shands Hospital on Friday. 
“Doing something as simple can turn into 
a moment that you are grateful for,” Reich said.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
For the second time in less than a 
week, someone crashed an SUV into 
a Gainesville business.
On Wednesday, a Kia rammed 
into Wise’s Pharmacy on Southwest 
Fourth Avenue. Six days earlier, a 
Chevrolet drove through the front of a Campus USA Credit Union. 
At about 3:30 p.m., Linda J. 
Knight-Baker, 56, plowed into the front of the small pharmacy, driving through bricks, glass and wooden shelves. 
As she pulled into the parking lot, Knight-Baker accidentally acceler-ated, Gainesville Police spokesman Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
No injuries occurred, but the store 
was left with a gaping hole that re-vealed shelves of pill bottles and hand lotions. A sign by the front door said it opened in 1938.
Keith Bennett, a building inspec-
tor with the City of Gainesville, said the crash did not cause any struc-tural damage. Inside the pharmacy, 
employees and the pharmacy owner 
were still in shock.
“She just drove through,” em-
ployee Sheila Ingle said.
Dorian Thrailkill, a patron of the 
pharmacy for more than 25 years, walked past the debris and held her dog, Poppy.
“Oh, dear,” she said.  
Thrailkill said Wednesday re-
minded her of Brown’s Pharmacy in 
Selma, Alabama, which suffered a similar fate. 
“They had a beautiful storefront 
with lovely gift items out front, and somebody drove through the plate-glass window,” she said.
After a short wait, Ingle brought 
Thrailkill her prescription.
“I’m just so thankful no one in-
side was harmed,” Thrailkill said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Pictured is the remaining damage to Wise’s Pharmacy storefront on Southwest Fourth Avenue after a 
vehicle drove through the building. No one was hurt during the incident.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Lizzy Snow, a graduate intern with UF’s Center for Arts and Medicine, draws a pic-ture to support a research study hosted by 352Creates. The 29-year-old will be run-ning events for 352Creates on Friday at The Midnight, including coloring-book- and collage-making as well as instructing a hip-hop workshop.
LOCALStudents draw and color to express art, relieve stress
Woman crashes SUV into pharmacy
By Anthony Nicotera    
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar 
hosted “Black Euphoria” on Tues-
day night, opening its stage to 
music and spoken word poetry on 
the black experience in America.
UF’s Black Student Union and 
Black Graduate Student Union 
joined forces with Mellow Soul 
Tuesdays, an open mic night that currently takes place every other Tuesday at Rockeys.
“The goal of events like these 
is to bridge the gap between the locals and academia,” said Ashley Wallace, the founder of Mellow Soul Tuesdays.
In the future, Wallace said, the 
event may be held once a month.
Performers confronted press-
ing issues, both personal and political, through rap and poetry 
from about 9 p.m. to midnight.
Subjects included domestic 
violence, racism in America, self-
knowledge, science and consum-
erism.
Spoken word artist and activ-
ist Nino Blacknez, a member of 
the New Black Panther Party, was scheduled to be the evening’s 
Spotlight Artist. Blacknez, for an 
unknown reason, could not make it to the event.
Huggy Bear Da Poet, a spoken 
word artist, filled the void with a charismatic performance of four poems, each about five minutes long.
Huggy Bear, 44, whose given 
name is Alex Jerome Lofton, gripped the audience’s attention with his poetry on the state of race relations in America.
Lofton evoked a range of emo-
tions.
Two women in the front row 
alternated between solemn tears 
and light-hearted laughter.
Inherently subversive, Lofton 
denounced the mainstream me-
dia for spreading excessive nega-tivity, and rappers for condoning 
poor morals.
Lofton said he started spoken 
word poetry 16 years ago.
“I like to keep the rhyme 
schemes simple, but the concepts deep,” Lofton said.
He said his greatest influence 
has been the Harlem Renaissance 
poet Sterling Brown.
“Sterling Brown may have 
been a Harvard man, but he wrote for the people,” Lofton said.
Born and raised in Mobile, 
Alabama, Lofton became an X-
ray technician after serving in the 
Navy.
He practiced poetry while 
working his full-time job and eventually realized it was the 
best way to make an impact on 
people’s lives.
“I look at this as more of a 
ministry,” Lofton said. “Spoken 
word is a way to touch people’s 
lives in a positive way.”Mic night celebrated 
Black History Month 
“The goal of events like these 
is to bridge the gap between 
the locals and academia.” 
Ashley Wallace
founder of Mellow Soul Tuesdays4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016
By Nate Phillips
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers are trying to 
find a Florida crop that can be 
used for beer.
UF’s Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences received a $158,000 grant to expand re-search on hops, the plants used 
to make beer. 
The researchers will start 
testing crops next week at UF’s 
Mid-Florida Research and Edu-cation Center in Apopka, Flor-
ida. 
Brian Pearson, an assistant 
professor of environmental hor-
ticulture at the MREC, will lead 
the project. 
He said before the grant, he 
attempted to fund research him-
self.
“I’ve only evaluated a hand-
ful because the funding has been limited,” Pearson said.
Pearson said his research be-
gan as a hobby after he visited 
a London pub in 2012. 
He drank a pint of Doom Bar 
Bitter, a craft beer developed in 
Cornwall, England. 
“It was one of those mo-
ments where I just sat in a bar and had a beer that blew me away,” Pearson said. “It was revolutionary.”
Pearson said he returned to 
Florida as a part-time UF doc-toral student and developed craft beer in his free time. “As I started getting involved 
in homebrewing, I realized hops were a very important part of beer,” Pearson said. 
After discovering hops 
weren’t grown in Florida, he said he wanted to grow the plant himself. 
Richard Smith, a biological 
scientist at the MREC, said he began working with hops along-side Pearson in 2014. 
As an undergraduate, he said 
he decided to join after hearing 
Pearson’s passion in a class lec-
ture. 
“I had always heard people 
say, ‘You can’t grow hops in 
Florida,’” Smith said. “So I 
wanted to try it myself.”
Smith said his original re-
search focused on four differ-ent types of hops and how they 
grew in Florida. 
With the new funding, he 
wants to look at a larger range 
of the crops.
While the expansion of re-
search is exciting, Pearson said his passion for craft brewing still remains. 
He wants to help create a 
beer people will love after just a sip.
“I’m still thinking about the 
consumer who goes into a bar 
and says, ‘You know what? I 
want a beer that’s unique, dif-ferent and local,’” Pearson said.Researchers look to 
make beer from cropsUF WAS RANKED AGAINST 
OTHER RESEARCH 
INSTITUTIONS.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
When Don Behringer found out he was a 
Fulbright Scholar last March, he was elated.
“I was on cloud nine when I found out that 
I got it,” said the UF associate professor, who 
now lives in England with his family.
Behringer, 46, was one of eight UF faculty 
members selected as Fulbright Scholars, a prestigious program that allows faculty, stu-dents and scholars to do research abroad. The Chronicle of Higher Education ranked UF second among research institutions producing the most scholars.
Arizona State University at Templeton 
ranked No. 1 with 10 scholars in the 2015-
2016 school year.  
UF environmental horticulture professor 
Charles Guy, a 2012-2013 scholar, said being 
a scholar is a once-in-a-lifetime experience.
“To be a Fulbright Scholar and to win the 
Fulbright is a prestigious award,” he said, adding the ranking recognizes the quality of UF’s faculty.
Guy, who went to Chile for his program, 
said the Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences, the International Center and repre-
sentatives from the graduate schools work to-gether to encourage faculty, students and staff members to apply.  
“We have good faculty, and we work on 
problems that are worldwide problems,” Guy said.
Behringer said he knew it was a long shot 
when he applied to the program.
During his time in England, he’s traveled 
to the East Coast to research marine patho-gens.
“I think it shows that the University of 
Florida has a tremendous global presence,” Behringer said.
Guy said groups across campus are work-
ing together to help UF rise in the ranks.
“We’re working to try to increase the 
number of awards so we can actually become    
No. 1,” he said.
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.orgUF ranks second for 
number of Fulbright Scholars
By Savanna Kearney
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Levin College of Law is leading the 
state in course offerings on a free, virtual 
platform.
Coursera is a website that allows peo-
ple to take college courses through univer-sities at no charge. While students can’t receive degrees from the classes, which 
are often run by college professors, they 
can receive certificates. UF currently offers 
12 courses.
Pedro Malavet, a UF law professor, said 
he teaches The Global Student’s Introduc-tion to U.S. Law on the website. He put the course together with seven other pro-fessors, he said.
He gets a lot of international students 
taking his course, which he has taught twice. Some of his students have also re-ceived at least one university degree.
But the dropout rate for the course is 
high, he said. Because the course is free, students register without considering the time commitment.
“They’re not investing money,” Mala-
vet said. “They are investing only time.”
Despite this, he said he loves how many 
students he can reach through it.
“For me, the opportunity to reach thou-
sands of international students at the same time was just too good to be true,” he said.
Thais Arianne hadn’t heard of 
Gainesville before taking Malavet’s class in 2015. But after taking it, the 27-year-old who lives in Brazil said she’s decided to come to UF this July for a master of laws 
degree.
“I just watched the classes, I really 
liked the content,” she said. “And I’m like, 
‘I’m going to try,’ and it worked.”UF Law offers most courses 
on free, online course website
she said.
“The center is where it is because of the people 
that came before us,” White said.
•   •   •
After retiring from UF, Mayberry wanted to travel 
but needed some motivation, his son said.
To help, he got his father and Gloria free tickets 
to Japan and Hawaii. Gloria loved gardens and had 
always wanted to see Japan.
“They went totally on their own to a foreign coun-
try and they didn’t speak a word of Japanese,” he said.
When they came home, they decided to visit more 
countries.
“They were really, really hesitant and then they 
just kept going,” he said.
His final destination was Eliam Baptist Church in 
Melrose, Florida, where he was buried Wednesday 
surrounded by friends and family members.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgEPILOGUE,  from pg 1He returned to 
Gainesville after working for the FBIdents in the Reitz Grand Ballroom. 
“One of the most challenging 
issues we face on college cam-
puses today is finding a way to 
balance inclusiveness,” he said. “If you are able to interact with people that are different than you, 
then you are better off.”Narayan Kulkarni, a UF biol-
ogy senior, has heard all three 
candidates speak. He said Parrott has enough experience to handle working at UF.
“I believe that he’s someone 
who’s very open to encouraging conversation for students as well as faculty and staff in a positive way,” the 21-year-old said. “I 
didn’t get a very good feel for tan-gible things he would do and com-mit to, though.”
He said he has doubts about all 
the candidates.
“I’m just concerned to what 
extent they will support minori-
ties because all three of them are white,” he said. “I will say, though, that they all three seem very informed on why they want 
to lead.”VP,  from pg 1Parrott focused on diversity, free speechRESEARCH
Courtesy to the Alligator
Maurice Mayberry, left, stands with his wife, Glo-
ria, and son, Maurice Jr., at their home in Haw-thorne, Florida. Mayberry, the founder and first director of the UF Career Resource Center, passed away at age 92 on Friday of a heart condition.
“For me, the opportunity to reach 
thousands of international students at 
the same time was just too good to be 
true.”
Pedro Malavet
UF law professorTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Kayla Solem 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Using a harmonious blend of music, art 
and scientific poetry, The Crossroads Project: 
Rising Tide addressed issues of environmental sustainability during its performance Tuesday.  
About 100 people gathered at First United 
Methodist Church for the international proj-ect’s first visit to Gainesville.Robert Davies, a physicist and the event’s 
host, said science can inform people of facts but still fail to inspire change. 
“You don’t stir emotions with graphs, fig-
ures and citations,” Davies said. “You stir it with art.”
He discussed a range of topics, including 
climate change, food, energy, water and con-sumerism. 
At times, the light dimmed and the Fry Street Quartet played in front of a slideshow of photos. 
“We know how we got here, and most 
importantly, we know where we’re headed,” 
Davies said. “So the time has come for us to 
believe what we know.”
Evan Kassof, 27, said the event escalated 
his feeling of responsibility for the Earth and the possible damage to come. 
“We knew it was going to come,” Kas-sof said. “It’s like when you’re watching that movie, and the love birds are about to die, and then it’s so much worse than you thought it could be.”    
Attendees took part in a Q&A session after 
Davies’ closing statements. 
“Our Earth is resilient, but not infinitely 
so,” he said. “While there remains so much we do not know, we do know one thing: All is not well with life on Earth.” Music and environmental science merge under church roof Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
VICTORIOUS VOLLEY
Carter Gay, right, a 20-year-old UF health science sophomore, plays volleyball with Francisca Carde-
nas, a 21-year-old UF biology senior, at the Broward Outdoor Recreation Complex on Wednesday.
HE SPOKE TO STUDENTS 
ABOUT GENDER AND 
SEXUAL ORIENTATION.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Cuban author Michel Encinosa 
Fu visited the U.S. for the first 
time Wednesday.
Encinosa Fu spoke to about 30 
UF faculty members and students about gender and sexual orienta-tion in Cuban literature at Dauer Hall. He has written science fic-
tion, epic fantasy and steampunk 
novels.
Elizabeth Ginway, a UF as-
sociate professor teaching Latin 
American science fiction and film, 
said she brought him to UF after 
teaching his writing in her class.
“I really want my students to 
have the contact with living writ-ers,” she said.
Encinosa Fu, who grew up in 
the Chinatown of Havana, Cuba, said sexism is prominent in the culture. He said mothers teach 
children strict gender roles.“Sexism is injected in children 
since they’re born,” he said. “We 
have this continuing, ongoing preservation of sexism, not just by the male population but also by the larger part of the female population itself.”
Sexist attitudes can be seen 
in Cuban science-fiction novels, Encinosa Fu said.
“Science fiction in Cuba has 
mainly been a thing for men,” he said.
Encinosa Fu said it is hard to 
write about sexual orientation in Cuba. Male writers can describe and discuss female same-sex rela-tionships, but not male same-sex 
relationships.
He said he hopes to come back 
to the U.S.
“It felt particularly like home,” 
Encinosa Fu said. “I walk around, 
and I feel like as if it could be Cuba with more development. I’m quite looking forward to re-peat these sort of experiences.”
Franchesca Carrera, a UF ar-
chitecture freshman, said Enci-nosa Fu’s experiences resonated with her because both her parents 
moved to Miami from Cuba.
“A lot of what he says is true,” 
the 20-year-old said. “Coming 
from my own household, it’s like 
that.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.orgScience fiction and steampunk Cuban author visits UFBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
After a tornado watch in Alach-
ua County on Wednesday morning, 
the National Weather Service hon-ored UF as a StormReady school.
The university worked for years 
to efficiently receive and transmit alerts for severe weather to the Gator community, said Angie Enye-di, a meteorologist with the NWS in Jacksonville, Florida.
During the Spring Break Safety 
Fair, Enyedi awarded university of-ficials with a StormReady plaque. The university’s official designation 
occurred at the end of last year, but 
the ceremony was held in conjunc-tion with this year’s Florida Severe Weather Awareness Week.
University Police Chief Linda 
Stump-Kurnick, who is also the as-sistant vice president of public and environmental safety, posed for a picture with the plaque.
She said it’s a strong symbol of UF’s partnership with the NWS on both an educational level and a re-active level.
StormReady is a nationwide 
program that audits universities, businesses and sometimes counties to gauge their preparedness for se-vere weather, Enyedi said.
Florida State University and the 
University of Central Florida have already received the designation, Enyedi said, but UF’s certification 
is the first of its kind in Northeast 
Florida.
Kenneth Allen, the director of 
emergency management at UF, said staff and faculty need to stay alert.
“I would encourage everybody 
at the University of Florida – as this week demonstrates – to kind of be weather aware, to understand the 
weather hazards we face, make 
sure they have a good way to re-ceive warnings,” he said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgUF receives weather-
safety recognition 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Cuban science-fiction author Michel Encinosa Fu speaks to an audience in Dauer Hall about gender in 
Cuban science fiction and fantasy on Wednesday during his first visit to the U.S. Encinosa Fu spoke to about 30 UF faculty members and students about gender and sexual orientation in Cuban literature.
LOCALThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Don’t get a pet 
unless you can 
care for it
As college students, we deprive ourselves of a long 
list of things. Typically this list includes sleep, food and money, but there’s that one thing that espe-
cially seems to be missing, especially when we’re 
still getting accustomed to being away from home: 
a pet. 
We’re constantly reminded of this when we see a dog 
that is too precious for this world on the street and the 
struggle to refrain from running up to pet that painfully adorable dog is real.
We get it. Like most college students, we at the Alligator 
gush over animals. If we could, we would plaster pictures 
of fluffy animals on the front page of every paper. We love our pets. 
What we don’t love, however, are people who post in 
Facebook groups — or Craigslist, if that’s more your style — in an attempt to give up their dogs/cats/lizards/snakes/rats/hedgehogs.
It’s always the same story. Students get puppies or 
kittens and now they’re moving to a new apartment that 
doesn’t allow pets, so their now-one-year-old dogs or cats 
are up for adoption on a Facebook group. 
Or, they’ve realized how expensive it is to care for an 
animal, and no amount of replacing actual food with Top 
Ramen will enable them to afford the food and medical ex-
penses required for their newest furry (or scaly, or slimy, or prickly) friends.
According to the American Kennel Club, the average 
cost for the first year of raising a small dog is $2,674. Me-
dium dogs on average cost about $2,889, large dogs costing 
$3,239 and giant breeds having an annual cost of $3,536. This brings the average amount a new owner spends on a dog for the first year to a hefty $3,085. That’s a whole lot 
of ramen.
As far as food equivalencies go, the amount of money 
it costs to raise a dog for a year averages out to about 
326 Chipotle steak burritos — and that’s with guacamole if you’re looking to treat yo’self. 
So unless you’re ready to spend that kind of money, you 
should really reconsider getting a pet.
The bottom line is: Puppies and kittens are cute and 
loveable; we wouldn’t dare suggest otherwise. We’ve all 
tried out that masochistic visit to PetSmart on an adoption 
Saturday just to stare into the big, watery eyes of a puppy needing a forever home. Note the emphasis here on the word “forever.” 
But please, for the love of kittens, don’t adopt an ani-
mal unless you are 100-percent certain you can devote the extensive time, energy and money to loving and caring for your pet.
The unconditional love a pet has to give should go both 
ways; if you can’t reciprocate and give them what they need, then please reconsider before adopting an animal. Tonight, the next Republican debate will 
be held in Texas, marking the first time semi-rational candidates will be outnum-bered by their knuckle-dragging counter-parts. Gov. John Kasich, R-Ohio, and an 
ever more ideologically unrecognizable Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., will be on the stage with a real estate mogul, an unhinged brain surgeon and a Canadian constitutional lawyer. While this may sound like the setup to a bad joke, it is actually the alarming state of American politics.  
2016 will be remembered as the year American politics 
became almost inseparable from a reality TV show. Can-didates with no discernable experience in government 
have attempted to persuade large swaths of the American 
people they are fit to lead this country, and for the most part, they’re winning. Although Ben Carson’s campaign is on life support and won’t be able to weather too many more losses before it collapses, he still outlasted Jeb Bush.  
This election has become one of entertainment over 
substance. The dryness of debates has now become prime time real estate for network news, as they are now aware they can actually get viewers. This can be seen in 
the debate format with the South Carolina debate look-
ing more like a Comedy Central Roast than a thoughtful exchange of ideas between potential leaders of the U.S. Although the two were never completely separated, with characters like Donald Trump of “The Apprentice” fame, the line between politicians and reality stars is rapidly becoming non-existent.
As we all know, the reality stars we love to watch the 
most are the ones we love to loathe as well. The prover-
bial Snooki of this metaphor, Donald Trump is arguably 
the most adept at this. Trump’s made a meme of himself since he entered public media consumption, whether that meant appearing on WWE or having his own Comedy Central Roast. He only got into politics when President Obama was elected, at which point he started asking for a birth certificate over Twitter — you know, like all ratio-nal, professional “politicians” do.Trump thrives on his demagoguery, using 
it as a shield against any actual inquiries on whether he actually understands an issue, be it domestic or international. At any point Trump finds that he is no longer the main focus of the 
news cycle, he makes another controversial 
statement, with the most recent as of writing being the retelling of a fictional story about Gen. John J. Pershing and bullets dipped in pig’s blood.
The worst part of all of this is that it works. 
The Donald has gotten what only someone who plasters their name on buildings wants: attention. Any news is good news in the world of Trump. 
During debates, Trump is rarely asked substantial 
questions on important issues, and when he is, he an-swers with the timbre of a high schooler trying to reach the minimum word count on an essay: a lot of fluff, but no substance.
Boldness is nothing new for American leaders, but 
their boldness was usually accompanied by genuine wit and intelligence. Boldness used to complement intelligent policy, but now, the end goal of boldness seems to be 
solely to show you are a bolder, bigger “man” on campus 
than anybody else running.
Trump’s bravado, especially concerning foreign pol-
icy, is frightening. Donald Trump paints the Mexican government as though it is on par with China as one of America’s biggest geopolitical threats; while the Mexi-can government contends with Mexico’s ongoing pow-er struggle with drug cartels, he’ll be sure to make the country pay for a wall. ISIS would easily be dealt with if 
only we dropped more bombs, and Vladimir Putin will 
quickly become the U.S.’ best friend and ally because he and Trump were on the same episode of “60 Minutes.” Trump’s candidacy and foreign policy is unfolding like a Michael Bay movie: The only problem is, the American people really like watching Michael Bay movies.  
Kevin Foster is a UF political science senior. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays. The 2016 presidential election is bad reality TV
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Local band Flat Land to play at Okeechobee
The band won the ﬁ  rst round of the contest, pg 10.What’s inside: 
Avenue interviews Patrick Stickles, pg 8.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Cecilia Lemus
Avenue Writer
This weekend, doodle for a cause.
352Creates and the “What Are You Gonna 
Do With That” campaign are hosting a com-munity mural project Friday night at First Magnitude Brewing Company, situated at 
1220 SE Veitch St.
Participants will hand-draw pictures on the 
temporary mural as part of a campaign to raise 
awareness to maintain creativity in schools.
The “What Are You Gonna Do With That” 
campaign was founded by Sierra Starkey, 22, and Collin Ciell, 22, as part of an assignment for their Mint Design Studio class. The UF graphic design seniors said at ﬁ  rst, they were 
just trying to raise awareness about general 
problems within schools.
The project redirected its focus toward 
awareness and appreciation for creativity.
The mural will exclusively feature pictures 
— no names or words. It will be drawn us-ing a variety of mediums. If someone cannot think of something to draw, there will be an idea box with drawing suggestions, Starkey 
said.
“We are art majors; we are concerned with 
how important education is and how it’s im-
portant to stay creative from a young age,” she said.
Starkey and Ciell agreed and said regard-
less of someone’s major or job, creativity can always be used and appreciated.
Starkey said they hope to encourage all 
ages to participate and express their creativity.
“It started off by being more directed to 
kids; we realized that it’s never too late and you are also never too young,” she said.
Shelby Barrett, a 23-year-old UF graphic 
design senior, said she is excited to see what everyone will draw.
“I’d love to see what everyone else comes 
up with,” she said. “I think this is a great 
event for both creatives and non-creatives to 
come together as a kind of experimental per-formance art gathering.” 
Barrett said she hopes the event will give 
an appreciation for the art community.
“Hopefully it’ll shift a gear in their brain 
and they’ll stick with it because it really is a great inviting community,” she said.  
The ﬁ  rst 100 attendees will receive free ac-
tivity books. The event is open to the general public from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Other artistic events will be occurring 
throughout the Gainesville area Feb. 26 as part of the single day of community-wide art-making. Further information can be found on 352Creates’ Facebook page.  
“It’s a night of creativity for everyone,” 
Starkey said.Brewery to 
become site of new mural
MUSIC
By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
Glowing paint and a Wii controller.
If one were pressed to think of just two 
words to describe a Robert DeLong concert, 
they might drunkenly choose these.
DeLong is a 30-year-old with the face of a 
teenager and the heart of a punk rocker. After 
drumming with a few bands when he actually was a teenager, he took a turn for the digital.
His style may be soberly described as a 
mashup of digital and analog streams, elec-tronic pop music rooted in indie rock.
His tools are simple: a guitar, drum set and 
loads of computer-lab equipment.
On Monday night, DeLong performed for 
a crowd of about 100 painted people at High Dive, situated at 201 SW Second Ave.
When the stage was set and the lights 
dimmed, it was DeLong who stood alone be-hind the reins of his rig. He sang tracks from both of his albums, including his recent one, “In the Cards,” which was released last year through Glassnote Records.
In the crowd, Hannah Tobin, a 22-year-old 
drumline instructor from Tampa, had tricol-ored stripes painted on her face.
As DeLong switched between singing and 
drumming, and strumming and clicking, To-bin was inspired.
“I think it brings an entire new element to 
music,” she said. “It takes off the limits of hu-
man possibilities.”
      
DeLong’s dad was a drummer, and appar-
ently also an alien, according to Wikipedia.
But, no, his dad was a drummer.DeLong had that printed on his shirt Mon-
day night. It’s a frequent question he gets, and 
he hates it.
The alien bit has yet to be conﬁ  rmed, but 
seeing as how DeLong has a fascination with orange X’s and face paint, the apple may not have fallen far from the tree.
Years ago, before his electronic epiphany, 
DeLong followed his father’s lineage and played drums for a couple of bands.
“As things progressed, I was always a 
computer nerd, and so I got into audio engi-neering and production,” he said, “and I guess those things just kind of went hand-in-hand 
with the whole music composition side.”
DeLong’s creative process varies, but he 
usually starts with a groove and a rhythm. 
Then he’ll play some guitar chords or click 
away at his software to ﬁ  nd a melody.
Lastly, he’ll add lyrics and vocals.
“I’d say every song is different, but more 
often than not, it starts with the beefy stuff,” he said.
Traditionally speaking, DeLong plays 
about ﬁ  ve instruments. But the lines have blurred.
“I play a variety of game controllers,” he 
said, alluding to a video-game joystick and his white Nintendo Wii controller, among others.
“At some point it’s kind of hard to differen-
tiate between what things are instruments,” he said.
After about an hour of bass and lights, To-
bin smiled as she left DeLong’s concert.
“He can do anything,” she said. “He can 
make any sound he wants.”Robert DeLong’s electronic world
Courtesy to the Alligator
On Monday, electro-pop artist Robert DeLong performed for a crowd of about 100 people at High Dive. Delong plays 
about ﬁ  ve instruments on stage — including video game controllers.
Going high-tech at High DiveTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016
By Zach Schlein
Avenue Writer
Patrick Stickles has never been at a loss 
for words: In both interviews and his work with beloved punk outﬁ  t Titus Andronicus, Stickles comes across as a man with almost too much to say 
on any given subject.
It’s this endearing verbosity that helped 
produce the band’s newest record, last 
year’s “The Most Lamentable Tragedy.” A 
29-song, hour-and-a-half-long rock opera di-vided into ﬁ  ve acts, the album is a culmina-tion of the band’s career thus far, merging 
the epic scale of 2010’s “The Monitor” with 
the back-to-basics punk of 2012’s “Local Business.”
Accompanied by opener Craig Finn of 
The Hold Steady, Stickles and Titus An-
dronicus will be playing at High Dive on Sat-
urday, March 5 in support of “TMLT.” Last week, Stickles took the time to speak with us 
on his love for punk music as a form, previ-
ous time spent in Gainesville and the inﬂ  u-ence of “Watchmen” author Alan Moore on the new album.
ZS: As someone who’s incredibly liter-
ate in the music pantheon — you’ve made no secret of your love for RZA and Kanye, and you’ve been covering the Weeknd as of 
late — why did you choose punk as the best 
genre of expression for your artistic inclina-tions?
PS: Well, I guess the big appeal of punk is 
just the freedom that it offers. More than any kind of particular aesthetic signiﬁ  er, punk is about elevating your interior authority and freeing yourself from any kind of set artistic 
rules. Within that template, you’re able to 
do whatever you want and draw from what-ever kind of inﬂ  uences that you think are ap-propriate for your particular artistic purpose.
ZS: So was it the lack of structure and 
the ability to impose your own that appealed most to you?
PS: Yeah, and that goes for music as well 
as life. This sort of punk ideology, it encour-ages the musician to be free and pursue whatever it is that they want to pursue sty-
listically, aesthetically —  but it also encour-
ages you as a person to construct your own ideology and your own set of morals and values, rather than just lifting a ready-made 
set of morals and values off the shelf, which 
society very much encourages us to do.
ZS: In both interviews and on your re-
cords — you covered the Pogues and Daniel 
Johnston on the new album — you’re not 
shy about venerating your heroes, whether they be literary, musical or historical. Is it odd at all for you to conceive of being simi-
larly venerated by those who came of age to 
the TA records?
PS: Is it odd? Well, I’m not sure if we’ve 
been quite as venerated as the Pogues just yet, and they haven’t made a movie about us as good as the one about Daniel Johnston. But it’s all a continuum — it’s a long chain — and I’m not shy about giving props and 
respect to those that inspired me because it 
IS a continuum, and this stuff doesn’t just come out of nowhere. But it’s an honor to be a part of that history and a part of that 
continuum, be a link in that chain, and if 
younger people recognize us as such… Well, that’s a very high honor.
ZS: You’re no stranger to Gainesville, 
having played previously at The Fest. What’s your take on the city and your expe-riences in it?PS: From the times that we’ve been 
there, it’s clear that there’s a lot of people down there with an interest in punk, and it seems that it’s a good hub for that culture. 
Most of the times that we’ve played there in 
the last couple of years have been for The Fest, so I’m looking forward to seeing what it’s like in the off-season. It’s known around the world as a city that loves punk and as 
a hub for Floridians to come and celebrate 
that culture, so hopefully they’ll come out to see us make a little contribution to that culture.
ZS: Culling through previous interviews, 
I saw that you’re a big fan of Alan Moore’s “Miracleman,” which also happens to be one of my favorite reads as well. The series 
delves heavily into inspiration, subjective 
realities and self-actualization, all themes touched on in your own music. Out of cu-riosity, would you mind speaking on what 
“Miracleman” means to you, as well as how 
you’re able to take such lofty subjects and make them more immediately accessible through a punk ﬁ  lter?
PS: Well, I’m glad you think that they’re 
more accessible, because to me, “Miraclem-an” was a much more accessible version of ideas largely from Friedrich Nietzsche, 
who’s a person that I’ve been interested in 
for a long-time. “Miracleman” in particular has got a lot to do with this book, “Thus Spake Zarathustra,” which is where Ni-
etzsche talks a lot about his uber-mensch 
business. I found “Miracleman” to be a really good way to communicate some of those ideas in a way that maybe had a little more entertainment value. I read it for the 
ﬁ  rst time when I was a much younger guy, 
ten years ago maybe, and thought it was re-ally cool, thrilling and interesting but may-be didn’t know all that much of the deeper 
subtexts. But going back to it years later, 
in particular when we were making “The Most Lamentable Tragedy,” the rock opera album we put out last year, and the attempts 
at studying Nietzsche that I’ve made in the 
years between, I could see a lot more easily what Alan Moore was trying to get across. But he packaged it with a lot of thrilling ac-tion and larger-than-life, colorful images and 
characters, and I guess you could say our 
rock opera album is trying to do—
ZS: Kind of the same thing.
PS: Yeah. And making those sorts of 
ideas more accessible and also trying to 
show that even though these sorts of phi-losophies and highfalutin are really not as 
fancy and impenetrable as they seem — they 
actually have a lot of relevance to real life, it’s not just for school. It’s something that’s relevant to — well, I can’t say all of us, but 
deﬁ  nitely relevant to my life.
ZS: Well, there’s a beauty in struggle, and 
as far as my understanding goes, Nietzsche is all about imposing meaning in struggle 
and in hard work—
PS: Right, absolutely, and that’s what 
we’ve been about since day one. There’s no 
real way around struggling and suffering and 
striving in this life, and while there’s plenty of whimpering to be done about it, you put that whimper into an electric guitar in a loud 
band and you can turn it into a more of a 
celebratory kind of thing — triumphing in our inevitable failure so to speak.
Tickets are $15 to $17 in advance. The 
show starts at 10 p.m., and doors open at 8 p.m. Tickets are available from both Ticket-ﬂ  y and High Dive’s website.
Triumph through nihilism
Q&A with Patrick Stickles of Titus Andronicus
“W ell, I guess the big appeal of punk is just the freedom that it ofers. More 
than any kind of particular aesthetic signiier, punk is about elevating your 
interior authority and freeing yourself from any kind of set artistic rules.”
Patrick Stickles, Titus Andronicus lead singer10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016
By Chase Drayer
Avenue Writer
Playing to thousands of people seemed 
improbable to Sam Coplin when his original 
audience was a set of gardening tools and un-used furniture layered with dust.
Coplin, 21, never imagined that jamming 
in his garage with strangers would lead any-where, but jamming formed friendships and the band Locochino. From that point, the members were serious about their music.
Locochino has played in roughly 50 shows 
and has been the headliner in many of them. This Friday, Locochino travels to its next show for a battle of the bands event called Destina-tion Okeechobee.
Destination Okeechobee marks Locochi-
no’s most notable career performance yet. This battle of the bands provides an opportu-nity to win a spot in the Okeechobee Music & Arts Festival. Eight bands will battle at 7 p.m. in Jacksonville, Florida, at the venue Jack Rabbits for a chance to play in the festival.
The festival, which runs March 4 to 6, is 
already attracting lots of attention with big-
name acts like Mumford & Sons, Kendrick 
Lamar, Skrillex, The Avett Brothers and Mac Miller.
Coplin said playing at the festival would be 
surreal.
“We would get to play in the same lineup 
as huge acts I never saw myself being a part of,” he said. “I think there’s an element of prestige that goes with it that you don’t get 
with a local show.”
Getting into the battle of the bands wasn’t 
easy, Locochino’s manager Dave Johnson 
said.
Prior to the battle, roughly 800 bands 
around the nation entered into the ﬁ  rst round. Bands won by having the most likes and shares on photos they submitted to the music festival’s Facebook page. Only 32 bands ad-vanced to the second round.
Battle of the bands marks the second step. 
Four venues were established in Florida in Jacksonville, Miami, Orlando and St. Peters-burg, with eight bands assigned to each loca-tion and only one moving on from each. The winner is crowned by the audience’s partici-pation and votes. 
“I know it’s a lot to ask for people to go to 
Jacksonville and vote for us,” Johnson said. 
“It’s a big deal to go out of your way, and 
we’re doing everything we can do in our part in helping them get out there.”
Promotional group Chakra 6 will be pro-
viding free Locochino T-shirts and carpool rides to Jacksonville. This plan hopes to en-sure higher attendance and make Locochino’s crowd noticed at the event.
Rides will be given out at The Jam at 5 
p.m. A pre-party for all Locochino support-ers will be held there at 3 p.m. Tickets to the battle of the bands cost $10, and people who attend have the chance of winning one of two free tickets to the music festival.
Locochino regularly performs at The Jam, 
and the venue’s co-owner, Blake Briand, said Locochino has really become more mature musically since he ﬁ  rst heard the group per-
form.
“Their music invigorates a crowd and reaf-
ﬁ  rms the reason on why people go out to hear 
live music,” Briand said.
Winners of Destination Okeechobee also 
receive $500 and have the opportunity to net-work with the musical groups that attend the Okeechobee music festival.    
“The professional networking we could do 
would cause us to get serious,” Johnson said. “If you never have that stage to show people what you can do, what’s there to show for?”Battle for Okeechobee spot
MUSIC
By Paulina Praphanchith
Avenue Writer
Spring Break is about to transform from 
sand and sun to an open forest and a collec-tion of ethereal funk fusion.
Local band Flat Land was ofﬁ  cially an-
nounced as the round-one winner of the 
Destination Okeechobee contest and will be 
performing on the main stage at Okeechobee Music & Arts Festival on March 6.
The contest consisted of 750 bands that ap-
plied from cities all across the U.S., as well as Canada. Voting was conducted through social media, and the band that received the most shares and likes on their photo was deemed the winner and given the opportunity to per-
form at Okeechobee.
The members of the musical quintet in-
clude Fae Nageon De Lestang, Christopher 
Storey, Brandon Miller, Ian McLeod and Grant McLeod. They all met on the UF campus, where some were music majors and others played in the college or around Gainesville.
Grant McLeod, Flat Land’s drummer, lik-
ened the band’s sound to soulful psychedelic 
rock.
“There have just been a lot of backgrounds 
that we’ve had, whether it’s jazz, classical, 
pop and even harder rock,” Grant said.
Flat Land will be performing along-
side a number of notable musicians at the Okeechobee Music & Arts Festival, including Mumford and Sons, Kendrick Lamar and The Avett Brothers.
“Led Zeppelin is deﬁ  nitely one of my big-
gest musical inﬂ  uences, so I think Robert Plant would be who I’m most excited to perform with at Okeechobee,” Grant said. “I think each of us are excited for something different just because we all have different tastes.”The band also has a nonproﬁ  t organization 
called Future Music Makers, which supports music education in Alachua County. The 
band members have raised funds for the orga-
nization, awarded private lesson scholarships and developed a partnership with the school where they volunteer. 
The band has also provided music for 
bike enthusiasts at its open-street events downtown and partnered with different so-cial movements in Gainesville, like the Active Street Alliance.
“I deﬁ  nitely recognize how much our com-
munity has helped us, and we try to give back to our community because it really does feel like a family,” Grant said.
Christina Perdue, a 21-year-old UF electri-
cal engineering senior, is a fan of the band and went to see the band play at the Suwannee Hulaween music festival during Halloween weekend last year.
“They’re a great band — they’re just so 
funky and have that feel-good vibe to them,” Perdue said. “I’ll be going to Okeechobee this year, and I’m really excited because it’s going to be such a huge festival, and knowing that a talented band from Gainesville will be there is pretty awesome.”
The fun doesn’t stop at Okeechobee. On 
March 12, Flat Land will be playing a show 
at The Jam in downtown Gainesville with its 
percussionist’s side project, Ism, and close friends from Jacksonville, Spore. 
The band is also working on a new album 
the members plan to release sometime in May or June, followed by a summer album tour and music video for their single, “Poco a Poco.”
“We’re all pretty silly people,” Grant said. 
“Behind the music, we just like to have fun.”  Local band Flat Land to 
play at Okeechobee festival BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
For rent - 8/15/2016 to 8/14/2017. Private 
owner has 4 bedroom/4 private bathrooms, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer on bus route 1 mile from UF. ONE YEAR LEASE. $375/mo/room Call 352-586-6468    3-9-16-10-1
2bd/2bth townhouse, SW Gainesville, Haile Plantation, cheerful and artistic, furnished, beds, sheets, TV, DVD, washer/dryer, fully equipped kitchen, small front garden, back porch, high ceiling, next to town center, na-ture trails, bike paths, quiet, utilities and in-ternet included, $400/wk + security deposit. No pets. Call 352-256-1211.    3-9-16-5-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-11-15-20-21/1 Apt. 669/mo. Walking distance to UF. Pets ok. Has pool and laundry room. Call 352-213-9780 or 352-575-4889    3-8-16-5-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
MR CHEAP ROOMClose to campus $180/mo.
Call Rob 375-8606                 2-25-5-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Fuji Bike, Model Spotif, 54", Black, Gatorskin 
700x28 tires, helmet- NEVER USED- $500-Call 352-332-5054    3-8-16-5-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99995 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199996 Cadillac Deville $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery DriversClosing drivers can earn $100+ each night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Server needed for busy Lisa's Corner Cafe. Some mornings & afternoons, 4-5 shifts/week. No nights. Exp pref. Own transporation. Energetic & depend-able. Train now. Server rate + tips ~$13-17/hr. Apply 1-4pm 125 NW 23rd Ave Ste #9.    2-25-16-5-14
Seeking responsible and engaging individual to supervise and work with children grades 1st through 8th in our After School Program. M-F, 2:25-6:00 PM. Must be 18 years or older. Start immediately. Please submit resume and application to mmschool@millhopper.com    3-14-16-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-9-16-10-16FINALLY! A Weight Loss Program Just For Teens. Lose weight for GOOD with the “World’s BEST Weight Loss Program EVER!” Results Guaranteed “Or Your Money Back” 
Here’s How It Works! www.skinnynhot.com   
2-25-16-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatest
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida women's basketball 
team is in good standing ahead of the NCAA T ournament.Read the story on pg. 15.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Horsfield wins SEC Freshman of the Week
Florida men's golfer Sam Horsfield was named the SEC Freshman of the 
week on Wednesday. Horsfield shot a -7 in the opening round of the Sun-Trust Gator invitational over the weekend, marking the lowest round score for a freshman in UF history. FLORIDA RALLIED FROM A 
THREE-RUN DEFICIT.
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
Heading into the final two in-
nings against Eastern Michigan, 
the Florida baseball team knew it 
needed something to happen to 
pull out the win.
In the top of the eighth, the 
Gators gave up five runs on a 
combination of poor defense and 
timely Eagles hitting.
Slowly but surely, the Gators 
began to rally.
Deacon Liput ripped a two-RBI 
triple in the bottom of the eighth to bring Florida within one.
Ryan Larson and Jonathan In-
dia hit back-to-back one-out sin-
gles in the bottom of the ninth to 
set up pinch-hitter Nelson Mal-donado’s game-tying RBI single one at-bat later.
And then, with Buddy Reed 
facing a 1-2 count, Eastern Michi-gan’s Jeremy Stidham was called for catcher’s interference, allow-ing India to cross home plate.
Ball game.Playing in Joker Marchant Stadium in Lakeland, Florida, the No. 1 Gators defeated East-ern Michigan 8-7 on Wednesday to stay undefeated and sweep 
the two-game midweek series. 
UF won the first game 12-4 in Gainesville on Tuesday.
“It was a good learning ex-
perience for us in a lot of dif-ferent ways,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “We came back down three with six outs to go. We had some freshmen have 
some really big at-bats at the end 
of the game.”
After opening the game in an 
offensive slump, the Gators (5-0) 
found a breath of life in the fifth 
inning.
Trailing Eastern Michigan 2-1 
following a defensive miscue from India in the top half of the 
frame, Florida scored three runs 
on three hits capped by a two-RBI single by sophomore Mike Rivera to take the 4-2 advantage. 
Rivera finished the game 2-for-4 
while also drawing a walk.
But as quickly as Florida’s of-
fense showed up, it disappeared in the blink of an eye.
In the sixth inning, Eastern Florida sweeps Eastern Michigan, remains undefeated
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida's Deacon Liput swings during UF's 4-2 win over Florida Gulf Coast on Friday at McKethan Stadium.
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
The Gators will hit the Golden State desert 
for their third tournament of the year.
No. 1 Florida (11-0) will play the first of five 
games at the Mary Nutter Collegiate Classic to-night in Palm Springs, California.
Florida faces No. 11 UCLA (7-3) at 8:30 and 
North Carolina State (5-4) at 11.
"This will be as challenging of a weekend 
as we’ve had in a long, long time," coach Tim 
Walton said in a release. "Just looking at the 
teams we play and how good they are will be a great test."
Two of the only three schools to win back-
to-back championships, Florida and UCLA 
both have strengths in the circle. Bruins pitcher 
Selina Ta’amilo is 6-1 on the season with a 2.12 ERA, and she averages more than a strikeout per inning.
But Florida has the personnel to fire back. 
The three Gator pitchers have a 0.45 ERA — second best in the nation. The combination of Aleshia Ocasio, Kelly Barnhill and Delanie Gourley has allowed just four runs in 62 in-nings this season.
Gourley is seventh in the nation in strike-
outs per game (11.1) and has yet to let an op-ponent cross the plate. The junior is also one of Florida’s seven California natives, including 
Walton and assistant coach Jennifer Rocha.
Walton said UF emphasizes the tourna-Pitchers leading softball team into matchup with No. 11 UCLA
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
When Florida men’s ten-
nis coach Bryan Shelton began 
searching for players to bring into his program last offseason, he and his coaching staff were hoping to recruit athletes that not only had talent, but also pos-sessed a competitive spirit.Shelton couldn’t have picked 
two players more competitive than Alfredo Perez and McClain Kessler.
Perez and Kessler, Florida’s 
only two freshmen, have estab-lished a dominant presence on the court through the first seven matches of 2016.
"Both of those guys fit the 
bill," Shelton said. "It doesn’t take long to watch 
either one of them play and see how competitive they are on the court, because they wear their emotions a little bit on their sleeve."
Perez, the former No. 2-ranked 
prospect in the state of Florida, and Kessler, the former No. 1-ranked prospect in the state of Georgia, are off to impressive starts in their first season with the Gators.
In dual-match play, Perez is 
4-1 in singles and 2-0 in doubles this season, while Kessler is 3-2 in singles and 1-0 in doubles. 
Both players have been regu-
lars in the singles lineup this year, playing six times in seven matches.
"I think I’ve played pretty well overall," Perez said.
"I’ve obviously had some 
tough matches where I didn’t play as good as I wanted to, but still overall I’ve played well."
A native of Havana, Cuba, 
who played high school tennis in Coral Gables, Perez credits his conditioning for his performance this season.
Pair of freshmen thriving in first season with Gators  SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 14SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14
SEE MEN'S TENNIS,  PAGE 14Florida has a 0.45 ERA
MEN'S TENNIS14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016
Michigan pitcher Augie Gal-
lardo struck out the side. In the seventh, UF had back-to-back flyouts before the Eagles (3-3) 
forced Ryan Larson to strand a 
pair of baserunners, setting the stage for Eastern Michigan’s five-run outburst.
“We’ve got to kind of learn 
that once we take a lead in the middle innings, we can’t give away at-bats and innings,” 
O’Sullivan said. 
“We’ve got to continue to 
push forward.”
Shaun Anderson earned the 
win after tossing the final inning and holding Eastern Michigan at 
bay, giving up just one hit.
Redshirt sophomore Scott 
Moss, who started Wednesday’s 
game after sitting out his first 
two seasons following Tommy Johns surgery, had an erratic outing.In three innings, the 6-foot-5 
lefty gave up just one hit and one earned run while striking out six batters, but also walked two and hit four others.
The Gators continue their 
road stretch by heading to Coral Gables for a three-game series 
with No. 6 Miami that starts Fri-
day night. 
Florida won four of five games 
against the Hurricanes last sea-
son, taking two of three in the 
regular-season series and both contests at the College World Se-ries.
A radio broadcast contributed 
to this report.
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg 13Anderson only gave up one hit
"The one biggest improvement is my 
physical strength and shape," Perez said. 
"I think I’ve improved on that a 
lot, and I believe I can go three hours 
(against an opponent) and just grind it out, and they’re not gonna beat me just because they’re in better shape than me."
As for Kessler, the 19-year-old was a 
UF fan growing up in his hometown of Calhoun, Georgia, and had wanted to be a Gator all his life. 
His passion for the school has been 
evident — this season, the 19-year-old frequently shouts "Let’s go Gators" dur-ing home matches.
For Shelton, the emotion Kessler dis-plays is a positive. 
But UF’s coach said the freshman 
needs to manage his emotions better moving forward, starting with Florida’s home match against Florida State on Sat-urday at 1 p.m.
"McClain is excitable, and he’s learn-
ing to focus his energy a little bit bet-ter," Shelton said. 
"The best competitors are the ones 
that can put the mind and the thought with the action, and so we’re kinda teaching him to use his brain a little bit more out there on the court instead of just using his physical attributes."
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgMEN'S TENNIS,  from pg 13Florida faces Florida State at 
home on Saturday at 1 p.m.
ment as a chance for California players to visit 
home.
"This is one of the things we do in the re-
cruiting process. When we’re talking to indi-viduals who are from out west, we tell them that we take this trip every year," Walton said.
"This is not only so their families can see 
them play live, but it’s also a chance for us to play against some great competition."
From behind the plate, Florida’s offense 
is averaging more than eight runs per game, good enough to be in the nation’s top 15 in 
scoring.
A lot of that offense comes from freshman 
Amanda Lorenz and sophomore Janell Whea-
ton. The California-born duo has 38 total bas-
es, the same amount that Florida has allowed 
this season. They’re also the team’s leading run producers, with Lorenz and Wheaton ac-
counting for 12 and 13 RBIs each.
Walton knows the Gators will have to be 
sharp on both sides of the ball over the course 
of the tournament against such stiff competi-
tion.
"The few runs that most of them give up 
and how many they are all capable of scoring 
presents a great overall test for us, not only for our offensive (unit), but defensively as well," 
he said.
course of the tournament against such stiff 
competition.
"The few runs that most of them give up 
and how many they are all capable of scoring 
presents a great overall test for us, not only for our offensive (unit), but defensively as well," he said.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg 13UF averages eight runs per game
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Amanda Lorenz bats during Florida's doubleheader sweep of Jacksonville on Feb. 
17 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida's Peter Alonso bats during Florida's 4-2 win over Florida Gulf Coast on Friday at McKethan Satdium.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Alfredo Perez returns a ball during Florida's 6-1 win over Troy on Jan. 17 at the Ring T ennis Complex.
“It was a good learning 
experience for us in a lot of 
different ways.”
Kevin O'Sullivan 
UF baseball coachIn an interview with Golf.com, ﬁ  ve-time 
major champion Phil Mickelson made headlines by saying the present group 
of golf’s young stars are not close to the 
level Tiger Woods reached during his 
prime, adding that we are “decades away” from someone matching Woods’ feats.
Mickelson couldn’t be more right, and 
we should stop trying to compare the game’s modern stars to a player none of them will ever be able to match up against.
In a sports culture in which we tireless-
ly search for the next great star and rush to 
justify why he or she is the greatest player 
we have ever seen, it’s important to put things in perspective and realize that what Woods did during his prime will never be 
replicated.
One example was on display last week-
end, when 22-year-old Jordan Spieth, the 
two-time major champion drawing the most comparisons to Woods, missed the 
cut in the Northern Trust Open.
It was his 16th missed cut in 87 events, 
which is pretty decent if you understand the inconsistent nature of golf. Even for the 
game’s top players, it’s tough to be great in every round each week.
Four-time major champion Rory McIl-
roy, 26, is around the same level, missing 
11 cuts in 102 events.The most recent major winner, 28-year-
old Jason Day, has missed 35 cuts in 174 
events during his career.
These are the three brightest stars in 
golf and the men many claim will emerge 
to become the next Tiger.But compared to Woods, these numbers 
look like those of amateurs.
In 327 career events, Woods has been 
cut just 23 times. Seven of those came be-
fore he turned pro in 1996, and another 
eight have come since 2012.
In between those two years, which con-
sisted of 17 seasons, he missed just eight 
cuts.
From 1998 until 2005, Woods didn’t 
miss a single cut, a span that included 142 
PGA sanctioned events — easily a PGA re-cord.
The magnitude of that number is mind-
blowing and can’t be understated. For all the stats Woods put up during his period of dominance, from the 10 major wins before turning 30 to his staggering 68.17 scoring 
average in 2000, this consecutive cuts re-
cord most represents the force Woods was.
There were no peaks and valleys in 
Woods’ game like every other mortal golf-
er goes through. He was in top form every 
week, and you were surprised if he some-
how found a way not to win every tourna-
ment in which he participated.
It’s not fair to judge Spieth, McIlroy, 
Day and others by such a lofty measuring 
stick, and it’s disrespectful to Woods to put 
them in the same category.
No golfer will ever reach the same level 
of dominance again, and we shouldn’t ex-
pect them to live up to that standard.
Graham Hack is a sports writer. Contact 
him at ghack@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @graham_hack24.
UF PLAYS LSU TONIGHT 
ON THE ROAD. 
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
With two regular season 
games left, it’s safe to say Flor-
ida’s women’s basketball team has surprised people.
Picked to finish 12th in the 
Southeastern Conference at SEC Media Day, the Gators are in the running to finish within the top four.
In a conference that could 
send as many as nine teams to the NCAA tournament, Florida is in good standing, especially considering it finished 13-17 last 
year.
“Success depends on how you 
define success,” coach Amanda 
Butler said. “I think that the way this team has loved each other, and the way they’ve improved and fought for each other, and the way they’ve represented this university makes it successful to 
this point.”
Florida already boasts 20 wins, 
meaning it will almost certainly 
return to the tournament. And while Butler prefers to measure regular season success in terms of improvement and relation-ships, she said it’s undeniable that her team’s belief in its abili-ties has grown with each win.
“I think it’s a season that’s 
given us great confidence to this point of knowing what we should continue to do from here on out,” she said.
The Gators will have two more 
chances to build on that confi-dence heading into the SEC and NCAA tournaments. And given that they’ve lost three of their last four games, heating up over the next four days could provide a helpful boost for the postsea-son.
The first chance comes at 
8:30 tonight against LSU in Ba-ton Rouge. Florida has already played the Tigers once this year and managed to scrape out a 53-45 win.
That 53-point output was Flor-
ida’s lowest scoring game of the year. But luckily for UF, LSU is no offensive juggernaut, and the 
Tigers were marred by a 28.6 per-
cent shooting clip in the second half.
However, Butler expressed 
concern over how the Tigers got Florida out of their usual offen-sive rhythm the first time around.
“They made us play their style 
for the majority of the game,” she 
said. “But they have a very spe-
cific way of playing. They don’t allow very many possessions in the game, they’re a low-scoring team because of defensively what 
they do to you and, offensively, 
they’re doing LSU’s defense limited Florida’s scorers. While freshman guard Eleanna Christi-naki led the team with 15 points, only one other player scored more than seven.
This time around, the Gators will obviously be hoping to find more success on the offensive 
end. And even though she admits 
that, in some ways, the regular season has already been success-ful, Butler’s only concern going into tonight’s game is scoring and winning.
“We would like to continue 
to find that success in different ways going forward and finish strong and not getting ahead of 
ourselves,” she said. “That’s gon-
na be by going to LSU and play-ing a very, very tough LSU team on their home court. I wanna be successful Thursday.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
It’s time to stop comparing golf’s young stars to Tiger Woods
AP Photo 
Tiger Woods tees off during the ﬁ  nal round of the Wyndham Championship golf 
tournament in Greensboro, North Carolina, on Aug. 23, 2015.JUST SOME HACK
Florida in good standing 
ahead of NCAA tourney
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Eleanna Christinaki dribbles into the paint during Florida’s 79-67 win over Vanderbilt on Feb. 18 in the 
O’Connell Center.
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack2416   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016
