We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 141 FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016
Burde helping Florida 
gymnastics ﬁ  nd success
The assistant coach was born in Romania, pg. 14
UF students create mural at Sun Center
It’s an underwater theme, pg. 3
Fundraiser optimistic despite lower attendance
The fundraiser will beneﬁ  t Gainesville’s Epilepsy Foundation of 
Florida, pg. 5Check out all ﬁ  ve parts of 
“Through Their Eyes” online
Find the full series at alligator.org
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
KOBE
Matthew Hoeck, a 22-year-old political science senior and the vice chair of marketing for the Reitz Union’s Board of Managers, attempts to dunk a basketball in an inﬂ  atable hoop during the Reitz Union Board Entertainment’s Dunk & Donuts event out-side the Reitz on Thursday afternoon. 
THROUGH THEIR EYES: PART FIVE
By Emily Cochrane
Alligator Staff Writer
Brianna DuPree dreams of shadows.
They linger in the corners of her room, 
slipping through the doorway. They’re 
wisps of darkness morphing into a shad-
owy face of an attacker, a face she still can’t remember from a night almost two months ago.
It’s a nightmare the 21-year-old can’t 
hide from, even when she forced herself to stay awake until dawn.
“If I had less time to sleep, I had less 
time to dream,” the UF public relations junior said. “And even if I did dream, I would have less time to remember.”
But in the morning, the shadows are 
gone — brushed away by a wagging tail and dog slobber on her face.
Healing after an assault can be con-
versation, art or therapy. For DuPree, it’s waking up to Dakota, a 7-year-old white Coton de Tuléar.
“My dog, he treats me the same before it 
happened, treats me the same after it hap-pened,” she said. “He just makes me feel like things are okay.”
For survivors of sexual assault like Du-
Pree, the details of the past don’t matter. Only today and tomorrow matter, chasing survival and success in the wake of medi-cines, nightmares and doubt.
“I’m not a victim,” she said. “I’m an 
overcomer.”
      ‘I want to keep smiling’
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
The LGBTQ+ community in 
Gainesville now has a platform to 
share their artistic talents.
Spill Magazine, a queer literary 
magazine, celebrated its ﬁ  rst publica-
tion in the Reitz Union on Thursday. 
Nicole Wiesenthal, the editor-in-chief of Spill Magazine, said the staff of nine began creating it last Fall.
The magazine held a launch party 
to celebrate the staff and people who submitted artwork, illustrations or written pieces. They received about 30 submissions from UF students, Gainesville residents and people who wanted to stay anonymous.
A previous queer arts magazine, 
Subtext, tried to launch but failed due 
to a lack of funding, Wiesenthal said.
Spill Magazine, which is indepen-
dent from UF, struggled to ﬁ  nd the 
funding to launch the magazine.
“No one knows you exist, and 
you have no help whatsoever, ex-
cept other students. But we hung in there,” the 21-year-old UF journalism 
junior said. 
Rachel “Pepper” Pimienta, 23, 
submitted a piece that discussed the 
intersection between religion and be-ing queer.“I’ve always been really attracted 
to questioning organized religion,” the UF English senior said, before 
reading an excerpt from her story, 
titled “Your Friendly Neighborhood Gaytheist.” 
Wiesenthal said submissions are 
available online, and physical copies of the magazine can be bought on the website for $15 each to raise funds to publish. 
“We just really wanted something 
that would allow people to have a voice and to feel like they’re be-ing heard,” she said. “Which is not something everyone receives, espe-cially in the queer community.” 
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org  Queer literary magazine launches
IT WILL BE HELD 
ON SATURDAY.
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s largest free gaming event will take up more 
space this year.
Gator Gaming will hold GatorLAN on Saturday 
at noon in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom and the 
Rion Ballroom to reduce noise interference, said Na-than Hoekman, the project manager. In past years, participants played all games in the Grand Ballroom.
This caused a lot of noise from different devices, 
the 19-year-old UF mechanical and aerospace engi-neering sophomore said.
The Grand Ballroom will house computer games, 
and the Rion Ballroom will hold consoles, such as the PlayStation 4.
Those interested in games like “League of Leg-
ends” and “Dota 2” could register in advance, he said. Those attending can play other games, like 
“Super Smash Bros.,” after signing up at the door. 
Hoekman said the art corner will be in the Rion 
Ballroom.  
“You can make your perler bead artwork, which 
is like making 2-D sprites out of little beads, and 
then you iron it together, and it sticks together,” he said.
Ben Rachman, the president of Gator Gaming, 
said he expects more than 500 people to attend. 
While they hold the event multiple times each year, 
Spring’s GatorLAN is usually the largest. 
“We pretty much always have things for you to 
register and play, you just have to bring your own 
controller,” the 19-year-old UF economics sopho-
more said.  GatorLAN expands to Rion BallroomSEE THROUGH THEIR EYES,  PAGES 8-9
It was created in Fall“If I had less time to sleep, I had less time to dream. And even if I did dream, I would 
have less time to remember.”
Brianna DuPree
UF public relations juniorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
International Food Festival
Gators Against Human 
Trafficking is excited to invite 
all of you to their International 
Food Festival tonight at the Baptist Collegiate Ministries, located at 1604 University 
Ave., from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 
p.m. A variety of student organiza-tions will be offering samples of their countries’ favorite 
foods.  
The organization will also have some awesome raffle prizes. Bring some cash and a 
friend and come have fun try-
ing different foods and meet-ing new people. All the proceeds will go to Created, a local organization 
that helps women out of sex 
trafficking and provides them with the resources for a new life.
Florida Museum Earth Day
The Florida Museum of Natural History will host a large plant sale with more than 150 spe-
cies of difficult-to-find and 
pollinator-friendly plants to-day until Sunday  from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Accent, host, native and nec-tar plants are available for purchase, with proceeds ben-
efiting the museum’s Butterfly 
Rainforest exhibit and other museum events like Earth Day and ButterflyFest. 
For more information, visit 
flmnh.ufl.edu/earthday/plant-sale.
Celebrate Earth Day at the 
Florida Museum SaturdayExplore the wonders of life on Earth with hands-on activi-ties and a huge plant sale at 
the Florida Museum of Natural 
History. On Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., participate in Earth Day activities in the adjacent 
UF Natural Area Teaching 
Laboratory and see diverse specimens from the museum’s vast collections. 
For more information, please 
visit flmnh.ufl.edu/earthday.
‘First Colony: Our Spanish 
Origins’ exhibit closes 
Sunday
Hurry into the Florida Museum of Natural History to see “First Colony: Our Spanish Origins” before it sets sail. Museum members and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card receive free admission. 
For more information, you 
can visit flmnh.ufl.edu/first-colony.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.
org. 
To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” sub-
missions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 141
HIGH  75° LOW  62°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Friends ofthe
Library
LibraryFriends ofthe
Library
Most prices 25¢ to $4
In 64 categories such as Mystery, Sci-Fi, comics, 
manga, non-ﬁction, education, cook books, 
DVDs, CDs, vinyl records, and more
Bring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlySa/t.end. Apri/l.end 16   9a/m.end - 6p/m.end
Su/n.end. Apri/l.end 17   noo/n.end - 6p/m.end
Mo/n.end. Apri/l.end 18 noo/n.end - 6p/m.end
T ue/s.end. Apri/l.end 19   noo/n.end - 6p/m.end
We/d.end. Apri/l.end 20    noo/n.end-6p/m.end
T ue/s.end1/2
pric/e.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.end1/21/21/21/2
pric/e.endpric/e.endpric/e.endpric/e.end
We/d.end ever/y.end We/d.endWe/d.endWe/d.endWe/d.end
thin/g.end10¢
ever/y.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end10¢10¢10¢10¢
FOLACLD.org
@FOLACLDBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check Only
.com/FOLACLD@FOLACLD
430 N. Main St.
By Cassandra Alamilla
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Sun Center will be home to 
a new 19-foot mural showcasing 
undersea life.
352walls and UF’s College of 
the Arts held a competition to de-
sign a mural to paint in downtown 
Gainesville. Today, the winning mural, created by UF art senior Ra-fael Moura, will be ﬁ  nished at the 
Sun Center, located at 101 SE Sec-
ond Place.
About 12 students from the class 
Site Speciﬁ  c Painting submitted proposals, said Julia Morrisroe, an associate professor in the School of Art + Art History.
Submissions consisted of an idea 
for the mural, a written description of how it would ﬁ  t downtown and how it would be created, she said.
Morrisroe said she wanted stu-
dents to be able to show their work on a larger scale and to a larger au-dience.
“It’s very different to try and 
work at a scale than traditional painting,” she said.Raquel Vallejo, the coordina-
tor of the collaboration, Morrisroe and two faculty members from the 
School of Art + Art History re-
viewed the entries.
The judges unanimously chose 
Moura’s mural because of its com-position and color, Vallejo said. The entire class helped paint the mural.
She said she hopes the proj-
ect will lead to more interac-
tion between UF and the city of 
Gainesville.
“It’s fantastic. It opens up a 
whole conversation,” Vallejo said. “To me, it’s a natural tie-in later on when we do more walls, and when famous muralists come into town, they can engage with students.” 
RIGHT:
Students enrolled in the UF 
College of Arts class, Site Spe-ciﬁ  c Painting, collaborated with 352walls to paint a mural at the Sun Center in downtown Gainesville, located at 101 SE Second Place.UF students create underwater mural at Sun Center 
Courtesy to the Alligator4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016
SHE WAS STUCK FOR AT 
LEAST 24 HOURS.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A little black heifer turned a week 
old Thursday, just a day after it was 
rescued from a sinkhole.
Not long after a rescue team from 
UF’s College of Veterinary Medicine 
hoisted the heifer 15 feet from the 
ground, she was carried to her wary mother. 
“At first she was like, ‘Are you re-
ally my kid?’” said John Haven, who led the rescue team.
The heifer fell into the hole — 2 
feet in diameter — and remained there for at least 24 hours, said Ha-
ven, the director of the veterinary 
college.
At about 6 p.m. Wednesday, 
deputies with the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office arrived at the 7-acre 
pasture in Newberry, Florida.
Rescuers from the college then re-
sponded to a call from deputies.
The hole was too narrow for 
rescuers to fit inside, so they dug 
around its circumference, hoping the curved walls would not collapse, Ha-ven said.
The heifer’s owner, 69-year-old 
James Monroe, initially thought the fall must have killed it.
Fortunately, Monroe said, he 
did not have to enter the sinkhole, which he had filled once before. 
Though the heifer had little iden-
tity at the time, the incident may have inspired a new name, Monroe said. 
“I guess we can call her ‘Lucky,’” 
he said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgWeek-old calf saved 
from 15-foot sinkhole
By Nate Phillips
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ross Wilson failed the first Foreign Ser-
vice Officer Test he took. 
The former U.S. ambassador to Turkey 
and Azerbaijan said he froze when his test 
interviewer asked him to list five American 
movies he would recommend to an African 
official.
“I blanked — I hadn’t seen a movie in 
theaters for years,” Wilson said, laughing. “I think I said ‘Casablanca.’”
Wilson spoke to students about his career 
in the U.S. foreign service and international affairs Thursday afternoon in the Marston Science Library. About 20 people attended 
the discussion hosted by UF’s Center for Eu-
ropean Studies.
Wilson worked as the ambassador to 
Azerbaijan from 2000 to 2003 and served as the ambassador to Turkey from 2005 to 2008. 
Wilson, who now lectures part-time at 
George Washington University, said foreign service officers must know a variety of is-
sues, including popular culture and modern 
American society. 
“After I failed that exam, I read the arts 
section of The New York Times every day until I retook the test,” Wilson said.
Foreign service officers must also pos-
sess social skills, he said. Officers have to collaborate with international leaders almost every day.
“The core of the foreign service work, 
at the end of the day, is about relationship building and persuasion,” Wilson said. 
Wilson said he joined the foreign service 
to develop foreign policy, not analyze it. 
Kokila Mendis, the outreach coordinator 
for the center, said they brought Wilson be-cause many UF students are interest in the foreign service.“It’s a lofty goal, so it’s great for students 
to hear from someone who was successful in the field,” she said.
John Steinmeyer, a UF political science 
and history junior, said he wants to pursue a career in the foreign service. 
“It’s always exciting to hear about the for-
eign service, especially when it comes from someone with first-hand experience,” the 21-year-old said. “Mr. Wilson is incredibly knowledgeable.”Former ambassador gives students advice
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF President Kent Fuchs 
snapped selfies and talked about living in residence halls with stu-dents Thursday night. 
About 35 students gathered 
in Graham Gallery to listen as Fuchs discussed his first year at UF and his plans for the future of the university. 
He answered questions about 
his leadership style, hiring more faculty and his day-to-day life.The Inter-Residence Hall As-
sociation hosted the event to pro-
vide students with the chance to 
talk to Fuchs, said Jackie Phillips, 19, IRHA’s secretary.
More students might have 
come if the event wasn’t during exams, said Phillips, a UF family, youth and community sciences sophomore.
Fuchs said he enjoyed an-
swering student questions. 
“I really relate to our students 
that are here in the residence halls,” said Fuchs, who lived in a residence hall for seven years. 
He said he wants to improve 
UF by hiring more faculty and expanding on student services, such as mental health counseling and renovated buildings. 
“I’m really working to build a 
university that will be even stron-ger than it has been in the past, than it is today” he said. “I think the state of Florida deserves that, 
our alumni deserve it and you all 
deserve it as well.” 
Roommates Ximena Jara-
millo, 20, and Ashley Beade, 18, snapped a selfie with Fuchs after he answered questions. 
“He’s adorable,” said Beade, 
a UF nutritional sciences fresh-man. “You can tell he’s really trying.” 
Jaramillo said she could tell 
he cares about students. 
“When he walked in, I felt like 
a fangirl,” the UF digital arts and sciences sophomore said. “I felt 
like I was meeting a celebrity.” 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org Fuchs discusses his first year, UF’s futureAndres Leiva/Alligator Staff
Ross Wilson, a former U.S. ambassador to Turkey and Azerbaijan, answers stu-
dents’ questions during a Q&A session in Marston Science Library on Thursday. “I wanted to do foreign policy, ” he said. “That is what I wanted to do as a career. ”
Courtesy to the Alligator
Alachua County Sheriff Rural Services Unit officers and the UF College of Veterinary Medicine Animal Rescue T eam worked together on Thursday to rescue a 1-week-old calf that had fallen into a 15-foot sinkhole in Newberry, Florida, and had been trapped in the hole for about a day.
By Brianna Ellis
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Gainesville’s Parks, Recreation and Cultural 
Affairs Department will host the first race of 
the 2016 Gainesville Biathlon Challenge on April 23 at 8 a.m.
The first race will take place at H. Spurgeon 
Cherry “Westside” Pool, located at 1001 NW 31st Drive. 
The biathlon includes six races in which 
participants compete in a 5K run and an 800-meter swim, according to a press release. 
Races will alternate between Westside Pool 
and the Dwight H. Hunter “Northeast” Pool, located at 1100 NE 14th St.
All participants will receive a medal, where-
as in the past the man and woman who placed first would receive a free annual swimming pass, said Michelle Weydert, the department’s program coordinator for athletics.
“We try to offer programs for adults, but 
we allow children aged 13 and over,” Weydert said. 
She said planners changed the event’s name 
three years ago to revamp its image.
“This event has been going on for the past 
12 to 15 years, but we’ve changed the name from Splash and Dash,” she said. 
Jennifer Whitney wrote in an email she has 
been doing 3-mile practice runs followed by a swimming session to prepare for the challenge. 
Though she has competed in a marathon 
and a half-marathon, Whitney said the event will be her first biathlon.
“My son participated in a kids’ triathlon, 
and that was so much fun that I began think-ing about it myself,” she said. 
Registration for city residents who sign up 
at least two days before the event is $18.25. The early-registration fee for non-residents is $24.25. 
More information is available by calling 
Weydert at 352-393-8751 or emailing her at
weydertme@cityofgainesville.org.Gainesville 
to host 2016 biathlonLOCALFRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
It’s good to  be me at HCC  this summer!
- Adam, HCC studentMake your summer count at HCC. 
Small classes. Flexible schedules.  
Half the cost of state universities.  
Registration for transient (university) students starts April 18.
HCC is an equal access/equal opportunity educational institution.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
FROSTING WITH A FRIEND 
Madelyn Corcoran, 18, spreads frosting on a donut next to her friend RJ Gammon, a UF materials 
science and engineering freshman, during Reitz Union Board Entertainment’s Dunk & Donuts event outside of the Reitz Union on Thursday.
LOCAL
By Lauren Johnson
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Despite a decrease in registration, 
Mandy Hancock said she hopes to 
raise $22,000 for Gainesville’s Epi-
lepsy Foundation of Florida on Sun-
day. 
Hancock said the ninth annual 
Walk the Talk for Epilepsy will 
charge a registration fee for the ﬁ  rst 
time. Registration was up to $25 un-til Thursday and will increase to $35 at the event.
Along with helping planners stay 
more organized, the fee will allow epileptics to register for free, she said.
In 2015, JT, grandson of Foun-
dation board member Rick Rundle, died from “sudden unexpected death in epilepsy” at the age of 10. The walk will honor his memory, accord-ing to a press release.
Registration opens at 8 a.m. and 
the walk begins at 9 a.m. on UF’s Flavet Field, according to the release. 
“With the walk, it gives us the 
opportunity to not just talk, but to put our bodies and our money be-hind that talk,” Hancock said.
About 250 participants collective-
ly raised $19,000 last year, she said. This year, Hancock said she 
hopes at least 150 people will attend 
the event, which will include free 
food, live music and activities. 
Julianne Raymond, 23, raised 
$1,180 for the event. 
Raymond said she had not heard 
about epilepsy until she was diag-nosed at 16, and her favorite part of the walk is raising awareness. 
“It is something that people do 
not like to talk about,” she said. “We’re never going to make any-thing better for epileptics unless we talk about it.”
EPILEPSY AND EVENT 
INFORMATION
 Event will include free 
rafﬂ  e and T-shirt with registration
 More than 1 in 1,000 epileptics die annually of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy 
 One in 26 people are diagnosed with epilepsyFundraiser optimistic 
despite lower attendance The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Through their eyes, 
we look forward 
Normally, Fridays are reserved for Darts & Laurels. 
But today, the Alligator would like to dedicate this editorial to the survivors of sexual assault, the vic-
tim advocates, nurses and detectives who work to 
heal survivors. 
This week we ran a ﬁ  ve-part series on student survivors 
of sexual assault. 
Monday, we gave you statistics, Tuesday we gave you 
survivors and their stories, Wednesday we proﬁ  led profes-sionals who help survivors, Thursday we informed you on the legal options survivors have and today we showed you how these immensely brave survivors are recovering.
This series would not have been made possible without 
these survivors who came forward and trusted us to share 
their stories. They didn’t only expose the horrors of sexual 
assault in our society, but they also shared some of their worst nightmares as a reminder for other survivors: You aren’t alone, it’s not your fault, you are loved and you con-trol your own life. 
For those survivors to retell the pain of their assault in 
hopes of helping other survivors come forward is one of the bravest acts we at the Alligator will see in our lives. 
This is why we’ve dedicated this series to these survivors 
and responders — because nothing could be more human and moving than their stories. And it’s one we all need to hear.
This series has been a story of loss — a loss of power, 
self-worth, safety and trust. It’s been a story of the un-
speakable, the unforgettable. But it’s also been a story of 
strength, recovery and reclaiming that lost power. It’s been a story of holding one another up and sharing the pain. It’s been a story of moving forward against all odds.
As difﬁ  cult as it is to talk about, and as much as our so-
ciety tries to ignore its prevalence and severity — as we said 
before — sexual assault is real. It happens on our campus 
to our fellow Gators. It’s devastating, and it’s hurt so many innocent lives. 
This is why we need to start engaging the conversation 
about the fact that sexual assault does happen, and it’s OK to talk about it. As was the case with the brave survivors who came forward, our society’s recovery process will be slow and difﬁ  cult. But it can be done if we are united.
Through their eyes, we can press forward together. Admitting foolishness is surprisingly adultlike
I’m starting to believe maturation means 
admitting how truly childish you are. If there’s any part of life in which matura-
tion occurs the most, it has to be college.
“Nobody cares how smart you are,” 
Kurt Vonnegut once told a group of graduat-
ing college students. “Nobody wants you to 
think, nobody wants to hear your wonderful 
answer.” This oddly cruel-seeming admonish-ment came after he had previously asked, “Do you know why cream is so much more expensive than milk?” Seeing as the speech was delivered in New York, 
the audience assumes the writer born in the Midwest 
might have a better answer; they say, no. “It is because the cows hate to squat on those little bottles.”
Vonnegut explains his joke to the audience: “When I 
asked you about cream, you could not help yourselves. You really tried to think of a sensible answer,” and when the answer is given, “you are so relieved to at last meet somebody who doesn’t demand that you be intelligent. You laugh for joy.”
This is the last Friday of classes. I apologize for that, 
although I had nothing to do with this. All complaints about this state of affairs must be taken up with whom-ever is responsible for the passage of time. So if you’re an 
atheist, blame gravity.
That means we’ve reached this point: We are all now 
moving toward the next part of our lives, whether that 
be the next year of undergraduate or graduate school, the ﬁ  rst year of post-baccalaureate or the ﬁ  rst time out of 
education. All we have in between is a relaxing interlude 
of exams.
Then why is Vonnegut so concerned about joy, any-
way? Why not intelligence? Unintelligent people lead us 
into bad wars and vote for Donald Trump. Unintelligent 
people make small talk and don’t understand the health value of kale.
I concede eating kale and not voting for Mr. 
Trump are admirable civic virtues, but some-
thing has to be said for joy. Surprisingly little 
is.
Joy is the taste of your morning coffee; 
the changes in intensity and color of sunlight throughout the day; the sound of the voices of 
your loved ones; the hair on your dog’s back. 
“Oh, of course,” you might be thinking, “it’s 
the little things.” And yes, I’d say. It is the things, the texture present in your life. But texture is not happiness, 
or any emotion really. It is a thing — a thing that connects 
us with the world around us, but most importantly, with others.
Joy is foolishness, really. The smart thing is to pretend 
you know more than everybody else and aren’t suscepti-
ble to their problems. If you never ﬁ  nd love and intimacy, 
you can at least tell yourself you’ve found respect — in that everyone remains a respectful distance from you.
Near the end of his speech, Vonnegut announces 
about the graduates, “No one must treat them like chil-dren again. Neither must they act like children — ever again.”
As a child, you feel so distant from the people around 
you. The news doesn’t seem to make sense, the play-
ground doesn’t seem to make sense and the question 
“What are you going to do with your life?” really doesn’t make sense. If there’s anything I’ve learned to remind myself at the end of every year of college, it’s this: “It’s 
really not supposed to.” Nobody cares how smart you 
are, anyhow. It’s a foolish answer, it’s an answer you’ll go to bed at night with and wake up to. It’s surprisingly adult — though I should point out, I don’t really know.
Neel Bapatla is a UF English sophomore. His column 
appears on Fridays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Neel Bapatla
opinions@alligator.org“This series has been a story 
of loss — a loss of power, self-
worth, safety and trust. It’s been 
a story of the unspeakable, the 
unforgettable. But it’s also been 
a story of strength, recovery and 
reclaiming that lost power.”FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Universities are the breeding 
grounds of tomorrow. Here, stu-dents, faculty and staff alike im-merse themselves in a culture that obsesses about our well-being. 
Universities are consequently a microcos-mic nation in themselves, ﬁ  lled with pock-ets of people and thickets of thinkers, that so directly emulate the world around them. Said plainly: Like apples falling from trees, students don’t fall far from their countries.
Let me be honest, not unlike a racist 
who prefaces statements with proclama-tions such as, “Some of my best friends 
are — ”, I say some of my best friends 
are involved in Student Government here at UF. Some of my best friends are mem-bers of Impact Party and some of my best friends are members of Access Party. I am impressed with both parties for so shame-lessly and effectively replicating all that is fundamentally wrong with American poli-tics so well.
Who’s to blame? UF has awarded de-
grees to politicians of all sorts, left- and right-winged. Debbie Wasserman-Schultz, chair of the Democratic National Commit-tee, is undoubtedly guilty of attempting to rig votes in favor of Hillary Clinton. She’s unjustly restrict-ed Bernie Sanders’ campaign to voting statistics and has ig-nored the complaints of her fel-
low Democrats on illegal voting 
practices.
Marco Rubio just ended an 
embarrassing presidential cam-paign. His PolitiFact rating re-ﬂ  ects how his words are “Most-ly False.” Rubio overtly lied about facets of the Affordable Care Act, the activities of Planned Parenthood and the ability of 
a president to nominate a Supreme Court 
justice in the ﬁ  nal year of the presidency. Mind you, in the history of our nation, one-third of Supreme Court justices have been nominated and conﬁ  rmed by the Senate during election years.
Here at UF, the cycle continues.Just recently, our Access-afﬁ  liated Stu-
dent Body president urged the Impact-
heavy senate to reconsider the freshly re-
jected SG Supreme Court nominees. One student does pro bono work and is intern-ing with the Department of Justice this summer. The other student is a local busi-ness owner and an openly gay veteran. Both of these students are unbelievably qualiﬁ  ed, and the senate’s rejection of them is nothing more than party poli-
tics. Impact, a generation raised 
by television, is simply replicat-ing the behaviors so unjustly, yet successfully, seen in practice at national and state levels.
Earlier on the campaign trail, 
Access was accused of dirty, negative cam-paigning with the notorious and cringe-inducing “Not My System” video. It took 
somewhat accurate claims about our po-
litical landscape and exaggerated them to the point of unfamiliarity bordering on the realm of conspiracy. 
While I don’t disagree there’s a larger 
notion of historical rebranding associated with Impact, the video is irresponsible in its Watergate-esque and journalistically bombastic approach.
To make matters worse, on platform 
the parties do not actually disagree on anything. Both agree on many issues, like sustainability initiatives and on-campus mental health access. It seems, then, both parties are equally guilty of perpetuating shameless nepotistic practices and ideolo-gies for the sake of nothing more than re-sume-building.
Most importantly, shame on you, fellow 
students. We are the ones solely capable of not only holding our ofﬁ  cials accountable, but also voting against their practices. Each year, we have the ability via voting to change this outdated and hopelessly bro-ken political landscape in the U.S. and UF alike. But, our voter turnout is far too low. Both in national elections and on campus, voter turnout is disgracefully low, and 
without change in that realm, we cannot 
have change elsewhere.
Our university is a microcosm of the 
real world, the whole lot of us rotting ap-ples falling not far from the tree. But as we graduate and apples die, new minds enter and seeds of life take root, giving us hope for a new tree, which will hopefully breed new apples.
Let us learn from our mistakes, vote in 
unison and hope for a better tomorrow, a better country and a better UF.
Zachary Lee is a UF philosophy junior.
It all starts at UF: The rotting apples don't fall too far from the treesGuest column
Zachary Lee
Speaking OutIt’s not the room that triggers 
DuPree. It’s the darkness.  
The bedroom door can’t be 
open at night. It will let the shad-
ows in, and with them come the fear, the nightmares and the memories.
But since the attack, she’s 
been able to sleep at her friend’s house in the room where it hap-pened — in the same bed, in the same sheets. She even plans to 
move into an apartment in the 
same complex because she feels safer with friends.
It scares her sometimes: the 
ease with which she can revisit the place where it happened. Is it normal? Is something wrong with her? Alone, she once sat in the room, struggling to feel and try-
ing to understand.
“It makes me feel like some-
thing’s wrong with me, or that 
I’m weird,” DuPree said.
Yet the anticipation of a pos-
sible trigger could manifest more trauma.
“There’s a potential you could 
incite triggers where they don’t 
exist by suggesting them,” said 
Annie Carper, a victim advocate with University Police. “They’re very much handled in the mo-ment or in the aftermath because they’re so spontaneous.”
The deﬁ  nition of a trigger is 
ambiguous; it varies based on sur-vivor and experience. But Carper best describes it as something 
that unexpectedly causes feelings 
that thrusts survivors back into their experience of victimization 
during the assault.
There’s very little time for 
preparation. Often, there’s no 
clear explanation. The emotions are built upon reactions to the at-
tack and previous experiences.
“Someone’s victimization 
doesn’t occur in a vacuum,” 
Carper said. “Everyone has a sto-
ry, has life experiences that lead 
up to sexual victimization.”
Each person reacts and copes 
differently, and often, Carper said, survivors ﬁ  nd new hobbies 
and interests as an outlet for their 
emotions.
For Nazmi Ahmed, it was trav-
el.
Hours after her attack in 2015, 
she packed for Australia.
She had been planning the trip 
for months, but now she would be bringing more than just physi-
cal baggage onto the plane.
Guilt. Disgust. Shame. Doubt.
She blamed herself for what 
had happened.
But studying abroad and vis-
iting family forced the UF sus-tainability studies senior to push away the emotions in favor of the experience.
“Just going to Australia made me put it on the side, you know?” Ahmed, now 22, said. “It’s like, I 
need to focus on more important 
things right now.”
Forty days later, she was back 
in Gainesville, facing the room 
where it happened.
She slept on the couch for a 
week. A friend from work came 
to help change the sheets on her bed. And, months later, travel 
is still an escape, with tickets 
booked for Connecticut, Canada and Belize after her graduation in May.
It keeps her away, she said, 
from the house, the bed and the people who ignored her pain.
“I had to put this issue aside 
because there were more issues at 
hand that I had to focus on — so-
cial justice issues, issues I study,” she said. “When I have such high ambitions of saving the world, 
it’s hard to focus on these mad 
wicked problems when my own self-health is in jeopardy.”
      
For some, there is empower-
ment through art.
That’s why, down a staircase 
and in a quiet hallway at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art, Ashley Flattery helped set up an exhibit.
The “Survivors of Violence” 
art exhibit, which closed Thurs-
day night, was important to her in 
part, she said, because it offered the Gainesville community a dif-ferent forum to talk about the ta-
boo. But more importantly, it was 
a medium of healing.“It allows survivors to reﬂ  ect 
where they are in their healing process,” said Flattery, a victim advocate counselor who works with the Alachua County Victims 
Services and Rape Crisis Cen-
ter. “It lets them really tell their own story and narrate that with-out anyone else trying to control 
that.”
Most of the works were paint 
on canvas, hung carefully on a 
wooden wall. Some were splash-es of abstract color, swirled to-
gether on a black frame. Others were more distinct — words, fac-
es and ﬁ  gures with heads buried in hands.
All of it, Flattery said, was an 
expression of where each artist 
was in his or her healing process.
“When we do art, it challenges 
us to think and express in new 
ways, and it helps our brain put 
new meaning into what’s hap-
pened,” she said, adding that she often encourages survivors to look into exploring art.  
“It helps them express them-
selves essentially in a way that words can’t touch.”
For Ahmed, that expression is 
dance.
Even before last May, the stage 
gave her solace and strength.
“It makes you forget about it,” 
Ahmed said. “Once I step onto that dance ﬂ  oor, nothing can touch me. Nothing.”
For the second time, she cho-
reographed for Entropy, the only all-female performance group to dance at the Pakistani Student As-sociation’s 20th annual cultural 
show. It became more than teach-8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016
Survivors learn to cope, move forward, share their stories
THROUGH
THEIR EYES,  from pg 1
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
“
I’m not a victim. I’m an overcomer. ”
BRIANNA DUPREE
UF public relations junioring a Bollywood hip-hop fusion 
piece — it became a sisterhood in which she taught her craft and 
shared her story with 23 women.
And on April 2, Ahmed led 
them across the stage, pink sash-
es pinned across their chests.
“It was a big distraction for 
me, and it was perfect,” she said. “I need distractions right now, but this is my passion. It makes me feel the most human.”
For similar reasons, DuPree 
found herself on a different stage during the Black Student Union pageant, performing a cultural 
dance with a friend.
“It gives me this weird adren-
aline rush,” she said. “It was just 
me and the moves.”
But even as the two women 
embraced their empowerment on stage, a painful reminder still crept in.
For DuPree, that reminder sat 
in the front row and watched her perform. And for Ahmed, he stood front and center, making eye contact before she looked away.
Their presence sparked be-
trayal at the hands of their friends — friends who welcomed the men, despite knowing what 
Ahmed and DuPree had suffered 
at their hands.
But most of all, it fueled an-
ger.
“People don’t do anything,” 
Ahmed said. “This isn’t a break-up. It’s a crime.”
The two men are free, non-
chalant and unapologetic.
And the two women are cor-
nered, wounded and afraid.
“It just frustrates me because 
I feel like his life is the same,” DuPree said. “And mine’s not.”      
More than anything, recovery 
is marked by conversation — or a lack thereof.
Within days of her attack, 
Ahmed conﬁ  ded in friends and an ex-boyfriend.
But when her parents called 
and asked about her, she smiled and said she was ﬁ  ne.
Fear silenced her story — fear 
of a reaction she assumed would condemn and blame.  
“You have to lie. You have 
to lie your ass off,” Ahmed said. “That’s intense.”
Deciding to share the story 
of survival is part of recovery, Carper said. It’s up to the indi-vidual to determine if and when he or she is comfortable speaking about what happened.
“It’s not just a narrative to 
them that they can share — it forces them in many ways to relive that experience,” she 
said. “Because that requires so 
much vulnerability and a cer-tain amount of strength to share that, each individual has to de-cide when they’re ready, if ever, 
to share their story with other 
people.”
But in the moments after a 
story is shared, one response is 
encouraged more than any other.
“You believe them,” Carper 
said. “Believe what they are say-
ing to you, and be with them.”
For DuPree, sharing her story 
has begun a conversation within her family. For the ﬁ  rst time, her mother opened up about an equally emotional experience to 
both her daughter and her own 
mother. Apologies were made. Relationships were repaired.“It blew my mind away,” 
she said. “A lot of people end 
up coming to me and sharing 
their stories, and it made me feel good that they’re ﬁ  nally getting that off their chest and talking 
to someone who kind of under-
stands.”
On St. Patrick’s Day, Ahmed 
was ready to share.
She called her father. Then 
she told her mother.
In sharing her story, the 
memories of those conversations — her father’s unexpected empa-
thy, her mother’s initial condem-
nation and both parents’ even-tual understanding — are what bring the tears.
Since that conversation, the 
story has ﬂ  owed more easily than ever before in therapy ses-sions, in private conversations and in public discussions of sex-
ual assault. Each conversation, 
she said, is a step closer to ac-ceptance of this reality.
“I’m an open book,” Ahmed 
said. “Life’s too short to be a se-
cret.”
      
Recovery is day by day, mo-
ment by moment.
Sometimes, DuPree can’t get 
out of bed. A bulletin board 
covered with papers and assign-ments will be a painful reminder of the work she missed and the 
classes she dropped, inducing 
panic attacks in the middle of class.
“It’s not just that day or that 
week,” DuPree said. “Every day 
is a living hell.”
For Ahmed, it’s frozen limbs 
at 3 a.m. as she reads graphic ac-
counts of rape in the papers she grades for a UF women’s studies class. Or it’s crippling fury, hit 
with the realization that she’s 
not in a single photograph from the dance she choreographed.
But both women move for-
ward.
“Having the strength to go to 
counseling, having the strength to get a f-----g Tinder, having the strength to get out and ex-
perience new things and take 
control of situations — that, I don’t know where I found that strength,” Ahmed said. “Or may-
be I’ve always had it.”
The commitment of classes 
will bring DuPree back in the 
Fall, still focused on ﬁ  nding her niche in the public relations 
ﬁ  eld. Ahmed will return for grad-
uate school, building upon her self-described addiction to help-ing humanity.
But in addition to school, both 
women are determined to keep sharing their stories, for them-selves and for those who can’t.
“I hate that this happened to 
me,” DuPree said. “But maybe it happened so that I can help.”
She said she wants to be a 
voice for the friends and the 
strangers who haven’t been able 
to come forward. And Ahmed shares that sentiment, embrac-ing the newfound strength she has found.  
“I want to keep smiling for 
people,” Ahmed said. “I want to keep smiling for myself.”
@escochrane
ecochrane@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
WHO TO CONTACT
Victims Advocate
A Victims Advocate is available 
24 hours a day by calling UPD’s 
Dispatch Center at 352-392-1111. During business hours, Monday to Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Ad-vocates can be contacted directly at 352-392-5648. You can email Vic-tim Advocates at annekcarper@uﬂ  .edu and nphineas@uﬂ  .edu. 
U Matter We Care 
You can conﬁ  dentially and 
anonymously reach out to the Dean of Student’s Ofﬁ  ce U Matter We Care team about students who may need help at umatter@uﬂ  .edu.
STRIVE
STRIVE peer educators are 
available to hold open nonjudg-mental forums for discussion of issues related to sexual violence.  You can contact them at 352-392-1575 or visit their website at gator-well.ufsa.uﬂ  .edu/strive.
UF LGBT Aﬀ  airs
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and 
Transgender (LGBT) Affairs pro-vides education, advocacy, and support for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and straight-allied students, staff, and faculty at the University of Florida. You can reach the Univer-sity of Florida LGBT Ofﬁ  ce at 352-392-1261 or email lbh@multicul-tural.uﬂ  .edu. 
Medical Care
The University of Florida Stu-
dent Health Care Center leads, col-laborates, and excels in the provi-sion of comprehensive services through wellness promotion and compassionate and accessible care. The Student Health Care Center also has a Women’s Health Care Clinic that is a nurse practitioner-run clinic with a female focus. The clinic includes but is not limited to services such as counseling on con-traceptive options, sexually trans-mitted disease/infection (STD/STI) prevention, sexuality and other women’s health, screening, diag-nosis and treatment of STDs/STIs, breast exams and instruction in self-examination, pap smears and routine pelvic exams and pregnan-cy testing.
Counseling Services
The University of Florida Coun-
seling and Wellness Center has professional counselors and thera-pists on staff and offers individual or group counseling dealing with any form of sexual exploitation or other issues related to victimiza-tion. All counseling services are free and conﬁ  dential. The center has an excellent referral system should your needs be better met by a different agency or program. You can reach the University of Florida Counseling and Wellness Center at:
3190 Radio Road(352) 392-1575www.counsel.uﬂ  .edu/cwc 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
“
I don’t know where I 
found that strength, or maybe I’ve always had it. ”
NAZMI AHMED
UF sustainability seniorBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished 
condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
4-20-15-72-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    5-10-16-21-2
Blocks From UF - 1st Mo Free!
3/1, 4/2 & 5/3. From $1400/mo
Reserved parking. Pet friendly
352-359-5584    dalyproperties.com    4-20-
16-13-2
1 BEDROOM in a 4:2 home for summer 
$300 / month & Fall / Spring semester $325 / month Call/text Joel : 352-443-3077 or wild -
buffalowings8@gmail.com[Dogs ok] Students preferred     5-19-10-2
Beautiful Apt. Ready for Lease Hurry.... 1203 & 1201 NW 4th St. 2BR 1.5BA 1,000 sq.ft. Wood flrs, all appliances, small patio/back yard. 2 park spots Close to UF, Main St., 13th St & Shops call or text 352-494-1800        5-10-16-6-2
Great Family Home For Rent 4BR/3BA 2,344 sq ft Sterling Place at Blues Creek 5007 NW 69th PL. Wood & ceramic flrs, all appliances, close to Talbot Elem. $1,995/mo call or text 352-494-3277       5-10-16-6-2
Beautiful Condo for Rent in Casablanca 2635 SW 35th Pl unit 1101 new wood flrs in BR new ceramic tile in LR 2BR 1-1/2 BA water incl. Location close to UF, shops & downtown $750/mo call/text 352-494-3277    5-10-16-6-2
BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE 5 Bed/ 2 Bath, Great Downtown location, 2 balconies, wood floors, great character. 320 NW 1st St. $2,500/mo. Call 352-377-3110 or email simpsonm@ufl.edu        4-20-16-5-2
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389
NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. 
Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount 
Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator ClassifiedsFOR SALE Well Loved, Well maintained, & Well Raced Tri Gear1 55 cm LITESPEED SABER TRI BIKE, 9 sp DA, New Seat, Excellent wheels, Oval Trailing Front Brake, Ouzo Aero Pro fork, Integrated Profile Design aero bar/bull horns, XLab bottle holders - $950 700C ZIP TUBULAR WHEELS 303 Front, 404 Rear, SS blade spokes- $650700C PROTOTYPE ROLF 12 bladed spoke front wheel - $75700C clincher tires/tubes FREE w wheel or bike purchaseThis stuff led to 65 podium placings, I've moved on to adventure cyclingcoachallen@rehabtoracing.com or Text to 
571-213-0254                    4-19-16-5-9  
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10  
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 9 BicyclesFRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos
12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.Cloud 9 is a busy day spa searching for happy, qualified people for our Support Staff team. Must be flexible, reliable & available at least 20 hrs per wk incl Saturdays.Great pay & discounts! Visit cloud9spa.com to ap-ply.   4-19-16-5-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1 Person to cook and clean for elderly wom-an in small apt.  Tower Oaks Glen. Must be dependable. Call 9am - 5pm 352-318-0711  5-10-16-5-4
PT experienced cleaner needed for homes/apartments/offices. Must have a reliable transportaion. Must pass drug/background check. If interested please call 352-214-0868 4-20-5-14
Financial Asst. 15-18 hrs wkly. Detail ori-
ented professional w/bookkeeping, computer 
and general office skills needed. Pls. email 
sarah@holytrinitygnv.org.  4-18-16-3-14Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDED
Full time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
A ttentionA ttention
Thursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9thAlligator Advertisers 
The Alligator will not be publishing fromA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttention
Thursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9thThursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9th
The Deadline for Tuesday, May 12th is
Friday, May 6th by 4:00 pmFriday, May 6th by 4:00 pm
for both Display & Classiﬁed 
Advertising
As always, we appreciate your
patronage and will resume 
publication again on 
Tuesday, May 10thAlligator Advertisers Alligator Advertisers 
DISPLAY 376.4482
CLASSIFIED 373.3463
ACROSS
1 Not as available
8 Red herring, to a
cop
15 Athens eatery16 Where to view
“Duck Dynasty”
17 Oath sworn in a
kosher kitchen?
19 Hightailed it
20 Le Mans law21 Great Plains tribe22 9-Down opener23 ’50s pres.
candidate
25 Long of “Third
Watch”
26 New Year’s Eve
get-togethers?
27 Double-dealing in
Delhi?
30 “A symptom of
man’s failure as athinking animal”:Steinbeck
31 Old knives32 Cutthroat
entrepreneur?
36 Pool option37 Six-time ’70s
Dodger All-Star
38 Demand from a
Stooge fan?
40 Unyielding45 Lobbying gp.46 Neighbor of Turk.
47 Place to play
48 Riches51 Deg. for drillers53 Unyielding54 “Stir-frying is an
option, too”?
57 Nervous __
58 No-win situation59 Doesn’t back
away
60 Gold rush figure
DOWN
1 Was googly-eyed2 Place to bring a
suit
3 Wading bird4 Put on a pedestal5 Beliefs6 “Bambi” doe7 Award-winning
politicalcartoonist Ted8 Word with able or
full
9 Munich : Jahr ::
Madrid : __
10 “Hawaii Five-O”
nickname
11 Landlocked
Asian nation
12 Heightened
13 Slow
movements
14 Insult18 Some bank files24 1980 Oscar
winner whoportrayed Loretta
27 Actor McKellen
28 Mandela’s org.
29 Exhibition
funding gp.
30 Trickery32 Cabbage family
member
33 Detroit labor org.34 Letters in
personalcolumns
35 Get36 First poet interred
in WestminsterAbbey’s Poets’
Corner38 Immobilize, in a
way
39 Something to eat
in a Western?
40 Miss America
contestants’ array
41 Salsa brand
42 Room to
maneuver
43 Where to
emulate thenatives44 More
unpleasantly
moist
49 Dominate
50 Some Ivy
Leaguers
52 Words with 
limit or trap
55 Agnus __
56 It’s in many
poems
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/15/1604/15/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, April 15, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
Work at One of the Top
25 Small Companies in
An opportunity to help others
unleash their fullest potential
with a GHF membership.
Full job description at ghfc.com/application
Now Hiring
Full-time, Part-time Employment & Internships
4-18-16-2-14
HIRING FOR SALES POSITION
Financial Services & Mortgage Protection.Wong Financial Services, LLCCall 352-777-6478 for interviewSend Resume mannie.wfs@gmail.com5-10-16-5-14
General ofc assistant. Pleasant home office 
and atmosphere. 10-15 hrs/week. Schedule 
flexible. $15 per hour. Required: proficiency 
in Excel and Word. Also required: serious at-titude and reliability.Resumes to wooten.leslie@gmail.com.
 4-19-16-3-14.
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
CLEANING SERVICE
Blow off debris & leaves. Clean up Inside 
& Out- Residence-Commercial 352-221-
5708 4-20-5-15 
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
22 Tickets
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Events/NoticesA.J. Puk and Florida baseball 
defeated Arkansas in Fayetteville on Thursday night. Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Former Florida football star retires
Former UF receiver Percy Harvin will retire from the NFL, accor ding to ESPN 
reporter Adam Schefter. Harvin amassed 351 receptions for 4,020 yards and 22 
touchdown catches during his seven-year NFL career after the Minnesota Vikings took him  No. 22 overall in the 2009 NFL Draft.THE ASSISTANT COACH 
COMPETED FOR THE ROMANIAN 
JUNIOR NATIONAL TEAM.
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
At first, he’s hard to notice.
For a grown man in a button-down and 
slacks, assistant gymnastics coach Adrian Burde fades into a sea of gymnasts with ease. He pa-trols the vault runway, taking his usual spot 
next to the landing mat.
As Florida’s vault team prepares to perform, 
he relays last-second recommendations to his 
gymnasts via predetermined signs. He silently observes them as they make their approach.
But upon their landing — and without fail 
— he explodes.
Punctuating the air with an enthusiastic fist 
pump, Burde raises his hands in celebration, 
congratulating his gymnasts with high fives.
To most, it’s just another display. 
For coach Burde, it’s more than a passionate 
outburst. 
His presence calms his athletes. His energy 
inspires them. 
And, much like it has for the past 10 years, 
and much like it will when Florida begins com-petition in the NCAA Championship Semifinals 
at 2 p.m. in Fort Worth, Texas, his philosophy 
pushes them to test their limits, both on and off the mat. 
“I don’t know where it started, but it just 
feels good, man,” he said. “When they look good, when they do good, we should show them that they do good.
“Makes sense?”
•   •   •
In Romania, gymnastics is king. The small Eastern European state holds its 
own on the global stage, with the women med-aling in the event at every Summer Olympics since 1976 and owning the first perfect 10 in 
Olympic history. 
It’s a nation steeped in tradition. It’s also 
where Adrian Burde began his athletic career. 
From the age of 6, training was a structured 
affair, with twice-daily practices sandwiching 
his formal schooling. 
The regimen produced a talented gymnast, 
one who earned a spot on the Romanian Junior National Team from 1988 to 1992 and claimed the 1994 French National All-Around title while competing for club team Aix les Bains. 
It also gave him a glimpse of his future. “When you spend 6 to 8 hours in the gym 
as a gymnast, you pretty much develop your brain,” Burde said. “You understand gymnas-tics so much better than somebody that doesn’t spend that much time in the gym or maybe nev-er spends time in the gym.”
That understanding was first used in 1994, 
when he began his first of six years as a coach for the Romanian Junior National Team.  
It was legitimized when he enrolled at the 
Romanian National School of Coaching, gradu-ating in 1996 with a degree in International High Level Gymnastics before joining the staff of Steaua Bucharest — the country’s premier ju-nior club — a year later. 
“If you wanna be a coach in Romania, you 
can’t just knock on somebody’s door and say, ‘Hey, I wanna be a coach,’” Burde said. “You have to go to school. You have to learn how to spot. You have to (learn) biomechanics. You learn physics.”
Romania formed his coaching philosophy.His next step would force him to adapt it.
•   •   •
Adrian Burde’s coaching career was on the 
rise.
With an impressive coaching résumé, he 
was ready to take a risk to further his prospects. 
“It’s funny, because when I moved to United 
States, I didn’t know anything about United States,” he said. “I got here at 10:30 at night, and the next day, I was in the gym coaching.”
Burde locked down a job managing the girls’ 
Level 10 and International Elite programs at the Norman, Oklahoma-based Bart Conner Gym-nastics Academy, a club co-owned by five-time Olympic gold medalist and fellow Romanian Nadia Comăneci.
However, a key difference soon emerged — 
one uncommon in his homeland. 
Before his move to the United States, Burde 
never worked with more than a handful of ath-letes at a time. He was a specialized trainer fo-cusing on a single discipline. 
But stateside, Burde found himself in charge 
of 44 competitors across four events.People Person: Burde helping UF reach potential
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
On Sunday, Sam Horsfield worked on 
his short game. 
The UF freshman, who was recently 
named a semifinalist for the Ben Hogan Award, sat at the back of the range at the Mark Bostick Golf Course and, for three hours, hit chip after chip, only stopping to scrape the dirt off the face of his wedge.
“I just put my headphones in and was 
just kinda in my own world,” Horsfield said. 
“Just chipping away.”This was the kind of dedication second-
year coach J.C. Deacon was looking for as 
No. 6 Florida begins the three-day South-eastern Conference Championship today in 
St. Simons, Georgia. 
The Gators, who haven’t won an SEC 
title since 2011, will play 54 holes at the 
Seaside Course against some of the best 
team’s in college golf. 
The 14-team field features No. 3 Geor-
gia, No. 4 Vanderbilt, No. 5 LSU and No. 9 Alabama.
In addition, some of the country’s best 
golfers will be teeing it up on 6,898-yard trek, including Alabama’s Robby Shelton and Georgia’s Lee McCoy. On March 13, McCoy, the eighth-ranked 
player in the country, finished fourth at the PGA Tour’s Valspar Championship. 
“It’s a big tournament,” Deacon said. 
“But you just put your work in and have the right attitude, and you go and play.”
Horsfield will open up the lineup for the 
Gators. 
Come the final round, Horsfield, the 
winningest freshman in UF history and one of only six UF players to collect at least Tough field awaits UF men’s golf at SEC ChampionshipsBy Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The Georgia Bulldogs have always been 
a thorn in the side of the Gators women’s tennis team.
Over the last 10 seasons, Florida is 10-6 
against Georgia, but UGA has frequently 
knocked UF out of the Southeastern Con-
ference and the NCAA Tournaments.
On Friday, the Bulldogs will look to end 
something else for the Gators — sole pos-
session of the SEC title. 
Florida is playing with little to lose. A 
loss to Georgia and a win on Sunday against 
Tennessee — who holds the second-worst record in the SEC — will guarantee Florida a share of the title.
Meanwhile, Georgia must win. If it 
takes home victories in its last two games, 
the Bulldogs will earn a share of the title.
As No. 4 Florida (16-2, 11-0 SEC) takes 
on No. 3 Georgia (17-2, 10-1 SEC) at the 
Dan Magill Tennis Complex at 5 p.m., the Gators aren’t feeling the heat.
“We put all the pressure on Georgia here 
on Friday night,” UF coach Roland Thorn-qvist said. “They have to beat the Gators in order to have a chance to raise the trophy or they’ll finish second again. That’s a great position for us to be.”
Historically, Florida holds a 46-15 re-
cord over Georgia, with six of Georgia’s 15 wins coming in the last 10 years.
Whereas the Gators are riding an 11-
game winning streak, the Bulldogs have won four in a row after falling to Vanderbilt on March 26.
Georgia is led by No. 4 Ellen Perez, who 
is 13-1 in dual-match singles this season. The No. 20 Bulldogs’ duo of Perez and 
Mariana Gould is 9-4 this season and has 
won four in a row.Florida to 
take on rival Georgia
The event features five top-10 teams
SEE MEN'S GOLF,  PAGE 15SEE GYM,  PAGE 16 SEE W-TENNIS,  PAGE 15WOMEN'S TENNIS
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Adrian Burde and the rest of Florida's gymnasts celebrate during UF's loss to LSU on 
Feb. 26 in the O'Connell Center. 
three wins in a season, will be 
looking to raise a ﬁ  rst-place tro-phy for the fourth time this sea-son.
Freshman Jorge Garcia will 
play the two-spot for Florida. Garcia is coming off a 13th-place ﬁ  nish at the Mason Rudolph Championship on April 3, his best tournament ﬁ  nish since a fourth-place outing at the Sea 
Best Invitational a month earlier. 
For the second tournmament 
in a row, Gordon Neale will be 
featured in the Gators’ lineup. The freshman, who struggled with injuries at the beginning of the year, held a three-shot lead with nine to play at the Mason Rudolph Championship. He ﬁ  n-
ished second at 5 under par — 
the best ﬁ  nish of his career.
Sophomore Alejandro Tosti 
and junior Ryan Orr round out the Gators’ ﬁ  ve-man lineup.
“I think that the SEC is proba-
bly the best conference in college golf,” Horsﬁ  eld said. “We gotta play our best.
“If we play our best, hopefully 
we’ll come out on top.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgMEN'S GOLF,  from pg 14Neale inished at 5 under par in UF's last tournament
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sam Horsﬁ  eld drives a ball during the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf 
Course. 
Meanwhile, the Gators are 
led by No. 7 Brooke Austin, who 
boasts a 12-2 dual-match record in singles. On the doubles courts, No. 46 Spencer Liang and Peggy Porter 
are 13-4 this season.
The tandem of Danilina and 
Morgan has also been competing 
well as of late, currently riding an eight-match winning streak. In singles, Danilina is at nine wins, while Liang and Austin are at six each.
“Right now we’re playing well,” 
Thornqvist said. “I think we’re physical, we’re ﬁ  t. We’re using our ﬁ  tness the way we like it. So the doubles point will be crucial, ob-viously. The crowd and handling our emotions will be our greatest challenge.” 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgW-TENNIS,  from pg 14Austin is 
12-2 in 
singles play 
this seasonFRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
And with only one other coach to aid him, it 
was difficult to provide quality instruction.
But even in his new environment, Burde’s 
knack for managing gymnasts was evident.
It was a quality apparent to current Florida 
head coach Jenny Rowland, who worked along-
side him at Bart Conner for 16 years.
“I would say Adrian’s passion for gymnas-
tics is unlike a lot of people’s, and he is one that 
he cannot just hold it inside,” Rowland said. 
“It just automatically comes out. He wears his 
passion on his sleeve, he wears his heart on his 
sleeve, and it’s great for the girls to see that.”
While that first impression would last, his 
stint in Oklahoma would prove short-lived.
Within a year-and-a-half, he’d be coaching 
like he did in Romania. 
He’d also learn something that his degree 
couldn’t give him. 
•   •   •
For the last 23 years, University of Nebraska 
head coach Dan Kendig has faced the same problem.  
Traditionally, the Midwest hasn’t attracted 
top-tier gymnastics recruits.
But he inexplicably produces results, leading 
the program to 11 NCAA Super Six Finals and claiming 139 All-Americans in the process. 
It was here Adrian Burde grew the most.The collegiate coaching structure mirrored 
that of his native Romania. The hands-on atten-tion appealed to Burde, and he made it known.
“It happened very fast, very quick,” he said. 
“I really, really liked the idea of coaching in a 
system that is very similar to what I grew up 
in.”
It was unlike anything Burde had ever seen. Athletes seem to bloom both on and off the 
mat under the Kentucky graduate.
Kendig said he looks for three qualities when 
recruiting gymnasts.They need to be good athletes.They need to be good students.And they need to be good people.“If one of those three are missing,” Kendig 
said, “then you’re spending a lot of time on things that you don’t need to be spending time on.”
Over five seasons, Burde watched as Kendig 
took recruits and transformed them into talent-ed competitors. He observed how Kendig relied on positivity to boost his managerial skill. He took in every lesson, growing like the gymnasts Kendig coached.
“What he does with that team, it’s not coach-
ing gymnastics. It’s coaching people, making good people,” Burde said. “He’s very positive. 
He’s one of the best motivators that I’ve met.”
And now, even after 10 years away from 
Lincoln, Nebraska, Kendig’s principles shine 
through in Burde’s own philosophy.
“I learned so much from Dan. …(It’s like) 
yeah, you’re a good athlete, you’re super talent-ed, but I still think that if you’re a good person too, you’re gonna go so much further than just the talent that you have,” Burde said.
“That’s what Dan is coaching. Dan does 
more.”
•   •   •
When the Florida Gators hired Adrian Burde 
to coach uneven bars in 2007, they desperately sought more. 
The school had the resources.There just seemed to be a disconnect. 
Before Burde’s hiring, UF’s bars rotation had 
finished in the top five nationally just once since 
1998. The program hadn’t won a Southeastern Conference title since 1989 — let alone its first NCAA National Championship.
Florida was looking for an impact. Burde’s was instant. With a top-ranked bars unit, the Gators went 
a near-perfect 21-0-1 in his inaugural year, cul-minating in an SEC championship and a third-place finish at the Super Six.  Each passing year proves his early success 
wasn’t a fluke. It’s hard to argue against some-one who’s earned five Southeast Region Assis-tant Coach of the Year awards. 
His results are tangible. His managerial pedi-
gree is obvious.
What isn’t, though, are the methods he em-
ploys to gain them. 
Every week, Burde takes time out from prac-
tice to motivate his team — not on the mat, but on the Internet. 
“We do a small video, something that (tries) 
to push them just a little more on their perfor-mance, on the quality of life and … the way that life should be lived,” he said.
These “Burde Beats” are a unique twist on 
Kendig’s philosophy — that there is more to life than gymnastics. 
The girls have responded to his message, 
with gymnasts regularly pressing Burde for an-other session. 
His energy and positivity are infectious. And with each passing victory, his methods 
gain further validation. 
“Training, it’s good, but if you don’t train 
as a good person … you’re gonna hit a limit (where) you’re not gonna be able to achieve what your goal was,” he said.
“You have to work from both directions.”
•   •   •
Ask anybody about Adrian Burde, and one 
thing quickly becomes apparent. 
His dedication to his craft is second to none.“Energy and attitude is very contagious,” 
sophomore Alex McMurtry said, “but it’s the same thing with Adrian. We see how excited he gets about vault and floor, and that just trans-lates to us.”
That much has remained consistent — from 
job to job, his passion rubs off on athletes and coworkers. 
His dedication to people, though, burns 
brighter. 
It was obvious in his early coaching years, 
when he freely volunteered to help younger gymnasts at Aix les Bains. 
It was obvious when he made the transition 
from club to college, buying into Kendig’s phi-
losophy and endearing himself to coaches and 
athletes alike.
“The whole team just fell in love with him,” 
Kendig said.
“I think the world of him. I think the world 
of him as a person, as a coach, as a friend.”
And it remains obvious now. “(The girls) like to make fun of him, but at 
the same time, it’s great,” Rowland said. “He 
is such a huge asset to the team, because with-
out his energy, without his passion, this team would not be where it is today.”
That, arguably, is what sets him apart. These traits — his willingness to give, to 
share his emotions with others — are as charac-teristic of his personality as they are his coach-ing.
It’s something that shines through on a daily 
basis.
And, before a practice session on March 28, 
five days before his gymnasts clinched Regional gold in Minneapolis, it was a point of emphasis. 
“Today the subject, talking about the Burde 
Beats, it’s actually (about) the power of giving. That’s what I’m gonna talk about today," Burde said. 
“The power of giving. It’s an interesting sub-
ject.”
@ajlib
alopez@alligator.orgGYM,  from pg 14Burde has been Florida's uneven bars coach since 2007 16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016
The Univ ersity of Florida AHE C Program pr ovides y ou with all the  tools y ou nee d to quit!
Program covers all forms of tobacco.
Sponsored by the UF AHEC Tobacco Free Florida Cessation Program and the Florida Department of Health.
 More than DOUBLES your chances of success!
 Includes FREE nicotine patches/gum/lozenges!
 Convenient ON- and OFF-CAMPUS locations!
Call 352.265.9569 to ﬁnd out more.
Did You Know?
Learn to LiveWithout Tobacco.
Help is FREE!
“He's such a huge asset to the team, 
because without his energy, without his 
passion, this team would not be where 
it is today.”
Jenny Rowland
Florida gymnastics head coach