We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 94 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016
Florida men’s basketball 
plays Arkansas tonight
Tipoff is at 7 p.m., pg. 13
Girls Who Code: New club encourages girls in computer science
It’s for the Gainesville community, pg. 5
Students wait hours for Hunter Hayes tickets
He performs March 16, pg. 9Eight recruits to look out foron National Signing day
Check out the players in our Sports 
section, pg. 15
Aaron Albright/Alligator Staff
BREATHE IN, BREATHE OUT
Attendees of S-Connection Aerial Arts’ Acro Jam event perform a cool-down exercise after an acroyoga balance lesson. Aaron 
Tremper, a traveling acro teacher, taught a variety of acro balance techniques on Tuesday night.
By Michelle T apia
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville’s Regional Transit System an-
nounced Monday that self-balancing scoot-
ers, or “hoverboards,” are banned from its buses.
Chip Skinner, the RTS marketing and communications supervisor, said cases of hoverboard batteries catching on ﬁ  re, espe-cially in conﬁ  ned spaces, led to the ban.
“It’s better to be safe than sorry,” Skin-
ner, 46, said. “Safety is a No. 1 priority, not only for our employees, but for our passen-gers as well.”
Transit agencies in cities such as Los Angeles, Chicago and New York City have also banned hoverboards for their potential 
to cause ﬁ  res, according to an RTS press re-
lease.
Skinner said the media’s increased focus 
on hoverboards played a part in the deci-sion, and as of Monday, riders have had to leave their hoverboards at home — even if they only plan to hold them.
For students like Sammy Boursiquot, the 
news is inconvenient.
After winning his hoverboard from his off-campus housing complex, he said it seemed like a convenient way to travel in 
between classes.
Boursiquot said he transported his hov-
erboard on buses in the past, and now he 
feels limited to choosing between either op-tion.
“That’s going to be a dent in my plans,” 
the 18-year-old UF accounting freshman said. “I feel like I can’t go anywhere with-out someone telling me it’s going to blow 
up around them.”Hoverboards banned from RTS buses
LOCAL
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
After deliberating at 9 a.m. Tuesday, the 
Florida Supreme Court delayed the Feb. 11 
execution of Cary Michael Lambrix.
Lambrix was 22 when authorities charged 
him with the murders of Clarence Moore and 
Aleisha Bryant in 1983.
After more than 30 years on death row and 
several appeals, the 55-year-old inmate still 
says he acted in self-defense.
After the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling in 
Hurst v. Florida on Jan. 12, the state Supreme Court ruled that Florida’s death penalty sys-tem violated the constitu-tion.
Unlike the systems in 
other states, Florida’s judg-
es could previously over-
ride the jury’s decision.
With Monday’s deci-
sion to indeﬁ  nitely de-
lay Lambrix’s execution, the state will now decide 
whether the national ruling can be applied retroactively to cases that have already been decided.
Teresa Reid, a UF professor in the Levin 
College of Law, said Florida now has several options.
Among them, Reid said Lambrix and the 
388 other inmates on death row may either face a retrial or have their sentences reduced 
to life in prison.
Prior to Tuesday’s decision, Lambrix re-
ﬂ  ected on his future in a written letter to the 
Alligator.
“Whether I win or lose this Hurst case, it 
won’t change the fact I’ve been wrongly con-victed of a crime that never happened,” he wrote.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgFlorida Supreme Court delays executionBy Brenna McKenna
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students and faculty have been receiv-
ing fewer parking tickets.
About ﬁ  ve months ago, UF’s Transportation 
and Parking Services changed parking decals on University Avenue to only allow students to 
park there. Since then, there has been a slight 
decrease in overall parking citations issued to students.
In November and December of 2014, 7,270 
parking citations were issued, and in Novem-ber and December of 2015, only 6,976 citations were issued, said Scott Fox, the director of Transportation and Parking Services.
After a series of assaults that occurred in 
Fall 2014, safety and security have been a pri-ority at UF, he said. Fox said more police have been brought on campus at night to increase security and student safety. All efforts have been “combined with a general and genuine desire to make campus more safe,” Fox said.
Marilyn Smith, a ﬁ  rst-year UF early child-
hood education graduate student, said she parked in the Norman Hall garage without a 
decal two weeks ago.
The 23-year-old said while she’s parked 
there before, she’s never gotten a ticket.
“I was really nervous, but I was really hap-
py I didn’t have a ticket,” she said.
Smith said she’s glad UF hasn’t been ticket-
ing at Norman. She didn’t want to miss class 
because of a decal restriction.
“To be honest, I was feeling really sick and 
didn’t want to take the bus, so I decided to drive,” she said.  Students are 
getting fewer 
parking tickets
Lambrix
The batteries can catch on ire
“I was really nervous, but I was really 
happy I didn’t have a ticket.”
Marilyn Smith
UF graduate studentSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Vice president for student affairs 
candidate speaking Feb. 10
One of the three final candi-dates for the position of Vice President for Student Affairs, Dr. 
Lori Reesor, vice president for 
student affairs at University of North Dakota, will be speaking at a public forum Feb. 10 from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100.  She will speak about her vision for stu-dent affairs at a large land-grant university and how her vision 
addresses current issues facing 
students and campuses. Faculty, students and staff are invited to attend and participate in the Q & A session that will follow the presentation.
Film about Syrian refugees play-
ing one night only
You’re invited to a one-night-
only film showing of “Salam Neighbor,” a film that illustrates the harsh realities currently fac-ing Syrian refugees in Jordan’s Zaatari refugee camp. The event is scheduled for Feb. 23 at 7:30 p.m. and will be shown at the Regal Royal Park Stadium 16 
(3702 Newberry Rd.). The price 
is $12, and we need 78 people to sign up before Feb. 15 for this event to take place. If we do not hit 78 people, those who bought a ticket will not be billed. We hope to see you there. You can purchase your tickets at tugg.com/events/85975.
There’s No Debate About Consent
Join Sexual Trauma Interpersonal Violence Education for Consent Week for opportunities to learn and talk about what consent is, what it isn’t and how to navigate uncertainties. Come to the Reitz Union on Friday from 9 p.m. 
to midnight to play Consent 
Jeopardy at GatorNights. On Tuesday we will be hosting a panel of experts for “Loud & Queer Consent” in the Ustler Hall Atrium from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. On Feb. 11, you can find us hosting Cupid’s Consent Fair on the Plaza of the Americas from 
11 a.m. to 2 p.m. There will be 
games and prizes, not to men-tion opportunities to win exclu-sive STRIVE prize packs and Consent 2016 T-shirts.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a  Super Bowl: The Ultimate Tailgate-
themed event Friday from 8 
p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature tailgate games, free food for the ultimate fan and a comedy show featuring comedian Nick Cobb. The event will also feature two showings of the movie “Straight Outta Compton,” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free pizza during Midnight 
Munchies. This event is free for 
UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be cur-rent students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 94
HIGH  81° LOW  64°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Maria Bonaventura, Jessica Gonzalez,   
  David Hoffman, Kristine    
  Janata, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
Libraries throughout Alachua 
County are celebrating Black His-
tory Month.
Each of the 12 libraries partici-
pating have events and contests for both children and adults.
Nickie Kortus, the marketing 
and public relations manager of the Alachua County Library Dis-trict, said it’s all about engaging the community.
“These programs bring history 
to life so people can participate and not just read about it,” Kor-tus said.
The Tower Road Library 
Branch is hosting a reenactment of the Buffalo Soldiers, including horses and actors, Feb. 20 from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m.
“I think it’s an opportunity to 
learn about the history and how it relates to your community,” Kortus said.
The Cone Park Library Branch 
will host Patricia Hilliard-Nunn, a UF African American Studies professor, to share oral histories collected from local senior Afri-can-Americans.
“Oral history has always been 
very important within African-American culture,” Diane John-son, the manager of the Cone Park branch, said. “We are keep-ing that tradition alive.”
The branch will also host 
an “Every Child Should Have a Book” event Feb. 17 from 4 p.m. 
to 5:30 p.m.
Cone Park staff members will 
read from books the library se-
lected and give a copy to each child who attends.
“The books that staff will be 
reading from will feature African-Americans or be written by Afri-can-Americans,” Johnson said.
The Cone Park branch started 
participating in the celebration when it opened in December 2013.
“We are excited to participate 
in the celebration of Black His-
tory Month,” Johnson said.
@merylkornfield 
mkornfield@alligator.orgAlachua libraries celebrate BHM
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Ashley Francois, a 20-year-old UF plant science junior, speaks with Ryan Wicks, a 
20-year-old UF mechanical engineering junior running as an Access Party candidate for the College of Engineering Senate seat on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday. 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
On her way to the new entrance of the Reitz 
Union, Emily DiRoma stopped to scribble the 
word “Food” on a chalkboard.
“I really want a waffle place,” the 21-year-
old UF advertising senior said.
On Tuesday, candidates and volunteers for 
Student Government’s Access Party and Im-
pact Party stood near the Reitz Union and on 
Turlington Plaza, asking for students’ input as part of platform generation.
DiRoma said she loves breakfast food, but 
on-campus dining is limited. She wrote on Im-pact’s chalkboard in blue chalk.
“The diversity of food on campus needs to 
be updated,” she said.
Trevor Schaettle, 19, worked with Impact to 
hear from students.
“We’re really looking to the students’ ideas 
and passion for campus,” the UF history soph-omore said.Kevin Jarquin, 18, said he told an Access 
member his idea for creating more frequent 
buses.
“Let’s say you miss a bus on the corner. 
Then you have to wait another 30 minutes,” 
the UF business administration freshman said. “It’s just a hassle.”
Shayli Patel stood in the shade near Weimer 
Hall, offering students a pen. Students want to improve parking and the Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol program, she said.“I think it’s really important that Student 
Government achieves the things that the stu-
dents really want,” the 19-year-old UF eco-
nomics freshman said.
Platform generation will continue today at 
the Reitz Union and on Turlington Plaza. Ac-cess will continue from 9 a.m. to  4 p.m. and 
Impact from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgSG parties begin to hear from students, take suggestions
Alachua Branch
Black History Scavenger Hunt
4 to 5 p.m., Feb. 18, ages 5 to 1814913 NW 140th St.
Archer branch
African Dance and Rhythms10 to 11 a.m., Feb. 21 and Feb. 25, all ages
13266 SW State Road 45
Headquarters branch
The African Presence in Buddhism
2:30 to 4:30 p.m., Feb. 21, 
teens and adults  
401 E. University Ave.
High Springs branch
Stories from the Rabbit Hole3 to 4 p.m., Feb. 23, all ages23779 W. U.S. Highway 27
Micanopy branch
Stories from the Rabbit Hole2 to 3 p.m., Feb. 21, ages 5 to 11706 NE Cholokka Blvd.
Newberry branch
Stories from the Rabbit Hole10:30 to 11:30 a.m., Feb. 17, all ages
110 S. Seaboard DriveBy Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Student Senate chambers 
were heated Tuesday night when 
senators debated replacement seats.
After passing two resolutions 
and approving a Council of Advi-sors position, senators went into three rounds of pro/con debate between senators Alex Everitt, District D, and Jonathan Frish, Murphree, and defended their nominations as senators.
“I’ve seen things change; I’ve 
seen the univeristy change, and I see this as an opportunity in senate to be able to give back to not only District D, but also the community of the University of Florida,” Everitt said.
Senators against Everitt’s 
nomination argued his nomina-tion favored Impact Party.
“It demonstrates a clear party 
bias,” said Sen. Praveen Varanasi (Access, District D), referring to Everitt running with Impact in the Fall elections. “It’s important as a Senate that we come to terms with the fact that we represent the students.”Sen. Kylie Werk (Impact, Dis-
trict A) said the debate around his 
nomination was because of party 
politics.
“I feel like saying he’s not de-
serving of this seat because it’s 
party politics is stupid,” Werk 
said.
Jonathan Frish’s spot as a re-
placement senator for Murphree 
Hall was also debated.
Both replacement senators 
were approved at the end of the meeting.
Passed:
• Resolution supporting 
the grand opening of the Reitz Union expansion by unanimous consent
• Resolution supporting the establishment of the Gator Emergency Medi-cal Response Unit by unanimous consent
• Kelsey Abbey approved for Council of Advisors
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgSenate debates 
replacement senatorsSandeep Bedadala / Alligator
Blake Giragos, a UF graduate student in management and a member of Impact Par-
ty, encourages students to write changes they would like to see at UF before they graduate on a blackboard on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday.
Twelve are participatingWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A new UF club is teaching girls 
to code.
Tiffany Dixon, a UF computer 
engineering junior, and Tess Bi-
anchi, a UF computer science ju-
nior, helped found a Girls Who Code chapter on campus three 
weeks ago. 
Girls Who Code is a national 
organization with chapters across the country. 
The two wanted to encourage 
girls to get involved with coding.
“We thought that there was a 
lack of encouragement for girls to go into computer science,” Bian-
chi, 20, said.
To solve this problem, they 
decided to use the recognizable 
Girls Who Code name to inspire girls throughout the Gainesville area, she said.
“We want there to be a com-
munity for girls in Gainesville who are interested in coding,” 
Dixon, 21, said.
The founding members have 
already started a programing club at P.K. Yonge Developmental Re-search School, she said. They also 
hope to start clubs in other local schools.
“We hope that it will bring 
more girls to not just major in computer science, but understand that it’s just a necessity,” Dixon said. “We want to close the gen-der gap that is in (Science, Tech-
nology, Engineering and Math 
fields).”
Bianchi said she believes this club is necessary because society 
doesn’t promote girls’ involve-
ment in computer science. She only got involved with coding when her friend’s dad mentioned it.
“It was just pure luck I got 
into computer science,” she said. “There wasn’t a societal struc-ture. I was just encouraged.”
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org Girls Who Code: New club encourages girls in computer scienceBy Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
A health care reform expert told stu-
dents and community members the gov-
ernment should provide health care Tues-
day night.
Jonathan Oberlander, the chair of social 
medicine at the University of North Caroli-
na at Chapel Hill, spoke about the positive 
and negative aspects of the Affordable Care 
Act, also known as Obamacare. He spoke to about 80 students and community mem-bers in Pugh Hall.       
He said Obamacare has insured 11.6 
million Americans as of January, but the system has many flaws.
“The Affordable Care Act is unafford-
able for a lot of Americans,” he said. “It’s 
a major issue going forward.”             
Obamacare expanded Medicaid, insur-
ance typically given to pregnant wom-
en, children and the disabled, to include Americans who didn’t qualify for it, Ober-
lander said. But many states didn’t adopt 
Obama’s plan.
Oberlander said the government should 
care for the poorest.
“I say with great regret and sorrow that the state of Florida has failed this moral test,” he said. “The state of North Carolina 
has failed this test, and so have a lot of 
other states.”
He said Americans don’t sign up for 
Obamacare because of political parties’ in-ability to explain the complex system.
“People look at the law through blue 
and red glasses,” Oberlander said. “And they see the same thing very differently, and they interpret it differently.”
He said the presidential race will deter-
mine the law’s fate. If a Democrat wins, Obamacare will move forward. If a Repub-lican wins, however, it will be challenged.
“I think we got a lot of unexpected 
twists and turns,” he said. “I don’t think we know the answer right now, but we’re going to find out real soon.”
Caroline Nickerson, a UF history and 
East Asian languages and literatures junior, said she thought Oberland’s assessment of the law was realistic and non partisan.
“I thought that he laid out some re-
ally grim facts with optimism at the same 
time,” the 21-year-old said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.orgUNC professor speaks on Obamacare, future of health care
Paulina Praphanchith / Alligator
Jonathan Oberlander, a professor of social medicine at the University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, discusses the details of the Affordable Care Act, Medicare and health care reform to a full audience at the Bob Graham Center for Public Service on Tuesday.   
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
LATIN FLAVOR
Cristobal Gonzalez, 23, sings outside of Emiliano’s Cafe in downtown Gainesville on Tuesday night with his band, Los Panas 352. Their drummer, Arturo Escamilla, 50, described the band as cumbia salsa reggae rock.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
With a traffic stop Monday, Gainesville Po-
lice linked one man with two different cases: 
a $15,000 burglary from late December and an assault from mid-January.
At about 10 p.m. Dec. 28, Eric David Bak-
er, 37, stole fishing rods and sunglasses from L & S Auto Trim, according to a police report.
After robbing the Northwest 13th Street 
store, Baker pawned the merchandise at dif-ferent locations, sometimes using his girl-friend to make the transaction, according to the report.
A witness told police Baker’s truck stalled, 
or shut off, mid-getaway, GPD spokesman Of-
ficer Ben Tobias said.
More than two weeks later, at about mid-
night on Jan. 14, Baker was escorted out of 
Gambler’s Saloon on Sixth Avenue after an argument with his girlfriend, according to the report.
When Baker tried to get back inside, the 
saloon’s 73-year-old owner stood in his way.
Baker then pushed the man over, causing serious bruising to the man’s back and chest, according to the report.
Still, Baker hid from police for two more 
weeks — a full month since his initial heist.
On Monday, police linked Baker to both 
crimes and pulled him over, Tobias said.
“We knew his name 
from the battery, but we had no idea until (Monday) that he was our burglary suspect as well,” he added.
As Baker pulled to the 
side of the road, his truck 
shut off like it had in De-cember during his get-away.
Police arrested Baker on charges of bur-
glary, larceny, dealing in stolen property, fraud and battery on a person 65 years of age or older.
Authorities took him to the Alachua Coun-
ty Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of an $85,000 bond.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgGPD solves burglary, 
battery with single arrest
Baker
CAMPUS
It’s a national organizationThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Clicker points are pointless in our education
The recent trend of clicker questions in lec-
ture halls has caught on to the point where they are now used in just about every general education course. While the most conventional form at UF is through H-ITT 
clickers, professors will also use websites such as Learning Catalytics and Top Hat to allow students to answer questions posed in class.
According to Lee Dye, a former science writer 
for the Los Angeles Times, clicker questions are used because they allow “teachers to pose ques-tions and get immediate feedback from the entire class, and none of the students need to worry about exposing their igno-rance.” However, anyone who has ever used a clicker knows 
this is not the case.
Instead of clicker questions being a true representation of 
what students know, results to clicker questions just show 
the ability of students to ﬁ  nd the right answer. As soon as time begins to answer a question, it becomes a mad scramble for students to seek out the minority who actually may know what they are doing. A consensus is then met in that one- to two-minute interval, resulting in a display screen showing the majority of the class answering correctly. This yields a false 
notion that, because the majority of the students got the click-
er question right, that must mean the majority of students understand the course material.
The skewed mentality on clicker questions arises because 
clickers aren’t being used for their intended purpose. Many professors include clicker questions as 5 to 10 percent of stu-dents’ ﬁ  nal grades, hindering professors from getting a clear view of what students know. At Montana State University, two researchers studied the correlation between the effective-
ness of clicker questions gauging student understanding and 
including clicker questions as a part of ﬁ  nal grades. After di-rectly comparing classrooms where clicker questions counted as a grade and classrooms where they did not, the two re-searchers stated “many instructors use clicker questions to stimulate classroom discussion and to spark interest in their students, but we conclude from our analysis of the conversa-tions that the use of a high stakes rubric for grading responses will not lead to an increase of frank discussion among the students.”
Another problem is that clicker questions are 
the sole reason students go to lectures. Arguing whether clicker questions should be used brings 
up another argument — namely, whether it is 
more important students attend class or under-stand course material. The reality is, some learn better on their own. Clicker questions force stu-dents to attend class lest they lose points, treating college students like high school students. How-
ever, there is a big difference between high school and col-lege: College is expensive. Professors do students no favors believing clicker questions directly lead to students coming 
to class, which indirectly leads to students attaining the ma-
terial and therefore passing. This is a market-driven society. Although some students may walk the line of whether they genuinely want to understand certain material, almost all are rather certain they are not going to waste money spent on education by failing classes. College students are given the responsibility to feed themselves and get out of bed in the morning. They should also be granted the ability to decide whether they want to miss a day or two and not be punished 
by measly clicker points because they made their own deci-
sions as adults.
Audience participation programs shouldn’t be eradicated 
from the lecture hall setting; they should simply be used for their intended purpose. Clicker questions are meant to be used for professors to receive feedback on what students don’t understand, but professors can’t get a clear gauge of stu-dent understanding when clicker points are a factor in grad-ing. Professors want to help students understand, but they 
can’t if they don’t know with what material students are con-
fused. If professors were able to get a clearer representation of what students don’t understand through ungraded clicker questions, they could then help students more constructively in lecture halls. Maybe then students will attend class because they want to, not because they have to.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF chemical engineering freshman. 
His column appears on Wednesdays.Pragmatic or 
idealistic, just vote
If you, our ﬁ  ne readers, are anything like us in the Alligator ofﬁ  ce, you probably found yourselves glued to your com-puters and/or TV screens Monday night, eagerly anticipat-ing/dreading the results of the Iowa caucus. As we all now know, evangelical and all-around bad human being Ted 
Cruz won for the Republicans with 27.6 percent of the vote and eight delegates, garbage-person and self-proclaimed “win-ner” Donald Trump came in second, and Florida Sen. Marco Rubio had a surprise boost in support and ﬁ  nished third.
On the other side of the American political spectrum, Hill-
ary Clinton and Bernie Sanders found themselves in a historic and nail-bitingly close race to declare outright victory in Iowa; as anyone who stayed up into the wee hours Monday could tell you, as the numbers ﬂ  uctuated between 2- to 3-percent 
margins of victory for Hillary before ﬁ  nally settling on an al-
most comically small 0.2 percent, keeping track of the count proved just as anxiety-inducing and compelling as anything on “Breaking Bad” or “The Sopranos.” This Iowa Democratic  battle may very well have set a new standard for what consti-tutes a “close call.”
Before the Iowa caucus — the ﬁ  rst of the 2016 presidential 
election — began in earnest Monday evening, blogs and social media were lit with statuses, think pieces and articles wres-
tling with pragmatism, idealism and feasibility regarding Sen. 
Sanders’ presidential bid. Hamilton Nolan of Gawker pub-lished an article titled “Idealists Won’t Vote For Idealistic Can-didate Because He Can’t Win Because They Won’t Vote For Him.” In the post, which more or less lays out its whole thesis right there in the title, Nolan criticizes progressives who have pledged to vote for Hillary under the premise her ascension to the presidency is a foregone conclusion. “Here we have the world’s only scenario in which idealists are able to immediate-
ly make their beliefs a reality,” Nolan writes. “Unfortunately, 
the belief in this case is ‘the idealist candidate will lose.’” No-lan concludes by saying “Yes, it is true: the idealist candidate will lose if all of the idealist voters do not vote for the idealist candidate… Vote for the candidate you agree with.”
Nolan has a point. The American two-party system has 
managed to not only disenfranchise considerable portions of the American populace, but it has rendered most of, if not all, Americans disillusioned as well. There is a popular idiom that 
goes “better the devil you know than the devil you don’t”; 
American politics has become a living embodiment of this re-grettable mentality. Scores of American voters have become polarized to the point where they’ll vote along party lines and ignore whether their preferred candidate actually has their best interests at heart. Regardless of which party ends up as-suming a seat, more often than not, common people end up getting screwed.
With both the Florida primary and the general election 
creeping up on us, expect to see many editorials on the mat-ter. For the time being, make sure you are registered to vote by Feb. 16 for our state’s March 15 primary election. Even if you aren’t feeling the Bern and somehow believe Hillary Clin-ton — a former director for Wal-Mart who regularly charges $275,000 in speaking fees — has your best interests at heart, don’t let your frustration with the way things are keep you indoors. Hell, vote for Trump for all we care (but really, please don’t).
As Monday night illustrated, the 2016 election is going to 
be a very close race; whether you are letting idealism, frustra-tion or a false sense of pragmatism guide your vote, just make sure it is cast.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
It is readily observable that dis-
tinct groups of people within any context speak in distinct ways, to varying extents. Dif-ferent groups use a “standard” 
national language to communicate within a national context and may use a different language within speciﬁ  c ethnic groups, tribes and families.
What’s more, each group can be 
broken down into smaller groups, often intersecting and overlapping, and their speech and language or behavior can be in-
ﬂ  uenced by socio-economic status, education, 
sexuality, gender and other features. Each of these subsets is often termed a “language community.” It should thus come as no sur-prise that the speech of black Americans in the U.S. is predominantly marked by features that distinguish it from so-called “standard English” and the English of other socio-cultur-al groups in the U.S.
The question that arises is one of nomen-
clature: What should this linguistic phenom-enon be called? Ebonics? African American Vernacular English? African American Eng-lish? Just “English”?
The ﬁ  rst term that usually comes to mind 
is that of Ebonics, a coinage of “ebony” and “phonics” by psychologist Robert Williams. He wrote in 1973 that Ebonics entails “the 
linguistic and paralinguistic features which 
on a concentric continuum represent the com-municative competence of the West African, Caribbean and United States slave descendant of African origin.”
This deﬁ  nition hinges on the vast linguistic 
inﬂ  uence of West Africa on the new world, at all levels of language — and, furthermore, paralinguistic and communicative aspects — 
which all represent a black experience that far 
transcends America and is intrinsically tied to Africa.
Notably, Williams does not mention the 
language called “English.” Linguist Ernie Smith expounded upon this thought in 1975, writing that “The native language of African-American people is not English. It is Ebonics, the linguistic continuation of Africa in Black 
America” and asserted that “Black English” is 
even an antonym of “Ebonics.”
The linguistic basis for these assertions 
is that the language of black Americans is derived in large part from West African lan-guages and as such, in its grammatical func-tions, word-formation and sound patterns, at its core reﬂ  ects these languages, not English.Obviously, over the course of 
several hundred years of White he-gemony in the U.S., black Ameri-cans adapted and learned and acquired aspects of “standard” 
American English, but have still 
maintained, in essence, their own language nationally. As discussed initially, inter- and intra-group communication are generally marked by the use of distinct lan-guages or registers, themselves of-
ten stratiﬁ  ed internally.
Hence it seems strange, from this perspec-
tive, to deem the speech of black Americans “African American Vernacular English” (Ver-nacular is beginning to be omitted because it is seen as pejorative), because it hinges on the assertion that Ebonics is English. It also bears mention that, per disparate inﬂ  uences and family histories, not all black Americans speak Ebonics, and not all speakers of Ebonics are black, which attests to its relevance.
The implications of the conceptualization 
and nomenclature of Ebonics are profound in that they have sway over educational policy and the shaping of identity and status for a huge segment of our population. I highly rec-ommend Arthur Palacas’s 2001 article, “Lib-erating American Ebonics from Euro-English,” which traces the development of the language and argues for the incorporation of Ebonics as 
a medium of instruction in the classroom.
Historians, anthropologists and sociolo-
gists have documented the historical and pres-
ent condition of black Americans and provide an excellent backdrop for the study of the group that I believe should be credited in large part with the establishment and construction of our country, along with priceless contribu-tions to our culture.
Insofar as the language of black Americans 
is the most authentic linguistic expression of their being and their most efﬁ  cient means of communication, it should be celebrated as an indelible facet of our culture and testament to the history of America, not shortsightedly dismissed on normative, classist (and racist) grounds. Ebonics is not a bastardization of English, and as such it is not “grammatically 
incorrect.”
Ebonics, rather, is an afﬁ  rmation of a 
people who, in the face of denigration, never 
relented in the struggle to overcome daunting adversity.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF lin-
guistics master’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays.
In support of the term 'Ebonics'Column
As a child, I was fortu-
nate enough to grow up in a household in which 
a strong emphasis was 
put on reading. I still 
remember dragging book after book up to my grandmother, 
pointing imperiously to the title 
and energetically demanding she read to me.
My politeness as a 5-year-
old aside, those were some really forma-
tive years for me. I learned reading was my 
magical time to imagine, escape and cre-ate. I connected to others through words. I gained an insatiable desire to collect books 
and add to my arsenal of stories.
Anyone who grew up with books or a 
family that prioritized reading time can re-
call it’s easy for stories to get old.
In elementary school, you crave books 
that give you new adventures. Nothing against series like “The Baby-Sitters Club” or the “Magic Tree House” books, seeing as I loved them as a child and still appreci-ate the lessons they taught, but eventually, 
the main characters and storylines would 
often get a bit predictable.
In middle school, it seemed like most 
people were reading books about attrac-
tive, insecure white girls coming into their 
own. This usually meant getting the jock guy at school to look at her and eventually sweep her off her feet, perhaps while be-ing egged on by her other attractive, semi-
insecure white friends. 
There are plenty of books with other 
issues; perhaps they focus on a parent’s 
divorce, the jock guy’s realization that his 
friends are dirtbags or even the protagonist  
riding a horse they have a really deep con-nection to. However, the classic storyline of white girl meets white boy and they fall deeply in love keeps cheerfully popping up 
like the old friend you knew in high school and see on campus sometimes: 
You’re happy to see them but, like, not that happy.
There is nothing inherently 
wrong with the “young, usually afﬂ  uent and tortured white peo-ple falling in love” trope. It’s a 
well-worn trope for a reason (be-
cause it happens!) and many of these stories are wonderful. Some of them are page-turners, heart-
breakers or even great literary works.
But often when reading, I ﬁ  nd the books 
I learned from and remembered the best, the ones that changed my opinions or made me particularly introspective are the 
ones that were (pause for the buzzword) 
diverse in plot points, opinions and char-acters.
Seriously. There is a reason the #We-
NeedDiverseBooks campaign exists. There 
is a reason 11-year-old Marley Dias is 
launching the #1000blackgirlbooks project. That girl is on ﬁ  re.
Books with multiple characters of differ-
ent religions, ethnicities and backgrounds expand our worldviews and offer insight into subjects and identities we are unfamil-iar with.
Every individual, regardless of race, 
color, nationality, ethnicity or background, stands to learn more about the experiences of those different from them. Honestly, why else would you be reading if not to 
experience personal growth, even if mini-
mally?
The call for more diverse characters in 
books, especially those for children and young adults, is not one that seeks to elimi-
nate books that do not already ﬁ  t this ideal. 
What it does call for is a world in which a bookstore can offer several options and not simply reafﬁ  rm a single identity, culture 
and existence.
A world in which a single narrative is 
perpetuating sounds boring, to be honest. 
I want interesting books. I want diverse books. I want to learn about lives, worlds 
and experiences different from my own.
Sally Greider is a UF English and public 
relations junior. Her column appears on 
Wednesdays.Diversity of books is very importantColumn
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.org
Sally 
Greider
opinions@alligator.org
“I want to learn about lives, 
worlds and experiences 
diferent from my own.”WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016
By Carolyn Batt
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students waited in a line that 
wrapped around the Stephen C. 
O’Connell Center on Tuesday 
morning.
The line was for high-demand 
tickets to the Hunter Hayes and 
Cassadee Pope performance at 
the O’Connell Center on March 16.
Students began lining up out-
side of the building about five 
hours before the ticket office opened at 10 a.m. on the first of two days of distribution.
Jessica Giles, 18, is a long-
time fan of Hayes. 
She headed to the O’Connell 
Center early in hopes of snagging 
a good seat.“I’m hoping I’m really close,” 
the UF journalism freshman said. 
“I want to be able to see him re-ally well.”
Giles said she’s expecting the 
concert to be one to remember.
“He’s a really good perform-
er,” Giles said. “He has a lot of energy.”
For Melissa Ray, 22, going to 
an O’Connell Center concert is something to check off her col-lege bucket list. 
She got in line at 8:30 a.m. and waited for about 2 hours.
“I’ve never been to a concert 
in the O’Connell Center, so I fig-ured it was one of those things I 
really wanted to do before I grad-
uated,” the UF health science se-nior said.
Ray said she’s looking forward 
to Hayes’ soulful sound. She said 
she wants to be part of the ex-
perience and the atmosphere of such a large concert.
“It’s always a lot of fun; good 
vibes,” Ray said.Students wait hours for Hunter Hayes ticketsSTUDENTS
• Free tickets for UF students are available today at 10 a.m. at the O’Connell Center box 
office.
• Students must present a 
Gator 1 Card to get up to four tickets.
GENERAL PUBLIC
• Tickets go on sale Thursday at noon at the O’Connell Center box office and at tick-
etmaster.com.
• Tickets start at $15. He performs March 16
By Cassandra Alamilla
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new museum exhibit is 
showing different perspectives on 
nature.
The Samuel P. Harn Museum 
of Art opened “Framing Nature: the Living World in Art” on Tues-day. It includes different forms of 
art that depict nature from vari-ous cultures and nations. The ex-
hibit took about two years to plan and will run until July 17.
The exhibit, through which 
the museum will celebrate its vast collection of art, is part of the Harn’s 25th anniversary cel-ebration, said Tami Wroath, the 
director of marketing and public 
relations at the museum. 
The curators, Dulce Román and Eric Segal, wanted to show how nature is seen through the 
eyes of artists.
“It’s a universal theme,” Se-
gal said. “We live with nature. 
We think of nature. We are im-pacted by nature, and we impact 
nature.”
For the curators, a challenge 
was selecting the art to be fea-
tured. Segal said he and Román 
identified 450 pieces of art and 
narrowed it down to 100 pieces.
Segal said he wants the exhibit to appeal to all of Gainesville’s residents.
“It’s very important for us to 
be accessible to the UF commu-nity and the Gainesville commu-nity,” Wroath said.
Segal said he also wants visi-
tors to enjoy the rich collection of art and think about nature in a different light.
“I hope people really reflect on 
what nature means to them in the light of the diverse images,” Segal said.Museum exhibit highlights natural worldWORKS OF ART 
DEPICTING NATURE 
ON DISPLAY
• Drawings
• Prints
• Paintings
• Photographs
• SculpturesIt runs until July 17WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-29-15-18-2Available Aug 1st. Very nice 4BR/2BA house, wood floors, all amenities in kitchen, W/D provided. $1450/Mo, 830 NW 6th Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. Pictures at:www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-3-16-20-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
House For Rent in NW Gainesville, close to 
UF. $1250 per month 1600 sqft. 3BD/2BA, Large Kitchen, dining, living room, Den. W/D hookup. Fenced in yard. For more informa-tion & pictures Call or text 352-222-0838.   2-11-16-10-2 
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
AVAILABLE NOW! Subleasing Canopy Apts.furnished, for spring & summer 2016. Will pay $150 sublet fee & 1st month rent (must sign before April 1st) $545/mo incl utils. Pet friendly. Pool. 813-810-5869    2-3-16-2-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-V338-1999                      4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 12 AutosWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR  11  
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $695
91 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24w-14
13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago 
Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Busy professional seeks helper. Good with tools? Like working on different projects? Want a break from the typical college job scene? Seeking an independent, self mo-tivated problem solver. Be the helper of a successful CEO. Earn money. Learn a lot at the same time. Less than 10 hrs per week. Previous position holders all became suc-cessful entrepreneurs. Unique opportunity beyond the paycheck. Tell me why you want this job: Photos2016gnv@gmail.com    2-5-16-5-14
SUMMER JOBS starting at $220.00 per week with room and board included. Work at one of the University of Florida’s three recre-ational overnight camps located throughout the state. Staff have no cabin responsibilities and most weekends off. University of Florida 4-H Summer Program Staff are involved in teaching kayaking, team sports, arts/crafts, archery/air rifle, swimming and STEM educational classes. We are looking for ENERGETIC, CREATIVE & MATURE per-sons to help lead these youth at our facilities.
Application deadline is 2/12/16.  Apply online 
at:   florida4h.org/camps.    
IFAS Extension/4-H Youth Development is 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY INSTITUTION    2-3-14-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
24 Pets 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Event Notices 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida's football team is 
looking to add to its recruiting class today. Read more on pg. 15.GUTHRIE WILL MOVE 
FROM SECOND BASE TO 
SHORTSTOP .
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Dalton Guthrie has big shoes to 
fill.
With former starting shortstop 
and 2015 first-round draft pick Richie Martin now gone, the sophomore in-fielder has been tasked with moving 
from second base, where he started 
last season, to the left side of the in-
field at shortstop.
So far, the transition has been 
seamless.
“It’s actually been a lot easier for 
me than I thought,” Guthrie said.
But the move wasn’t as simple as 
it may seem.
Guthrie said he had to put on 
some weight, strengthen his legs and 
stretch out his arm to consistently 
throw across the diamond.
The Sarasota native is also taking 
on more of a leadership role with the 
position change, as a shortstop tends 
to run a lot of pick-off plays and call 
off other infielders on pop-ups.
So far, Guthrie has embraced the 
responsibility.
“I like it just kind of because you have more of a role at shortstop,” he said. “Really it’s just you have to be more into the game defensively I 
guess, not that you don’t have to be defensively in the game at second, 
but it’s just more of a role.”
Guthrie has had help adjusting to 
his new role. Martin, who was taking batting practice Tuesday at McKethan Stadium and has been in Gainesville the past couple days, has served as 
Guthrie’s mentor. Guthrie said Mar-tin has helped him learn how to read 
pitches and opposing hitters’ swings to judge where the ball will travel.
“Really, it’s just figuring out what 
he does that was successful,” Guthrie 
said. “I’m just trying to pick his brain 
a little bit.”
Martin’s brain — and glove — 
was a big reason he was drafted so high, as he committed just nine errors 
in 325 chances in 2015.
In comparison, former Southeast-
ern Conference shortstops and the first two picks of the 2015 MLB Draft 
Dansby Swanson and Alex Bregman 
committed eight and nine errors last 
season, respectively.
But Guthrie isn’t feeling the pres-
sure of replacing Martin, and he said 
he doesn't worry about Martin’s sta-
tistics from last year.
“I don’t compare myself to Rich-
ie,” he said. “I’m just going to play how I can play.”
Though he knows learning the 
position will take some time, Florida 
pitcher Logan Shore said he has con-
fidence in Guthrie making plays be-
hind him.
“I think Dalton is going to do a 
great job,” he said. “He’s going to 
kind of morph into Richie’s role, I think, really well.”
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Christinaki named SEC Freshman of the Week
Florida guard Eleanna Christinaki was named the Southeastern Conference 
Player of the Week on Tuesday. In UF's win over No. 12 Kentucky on Sun-day,  the freshman scored 12 points and sealed the victory with a steal in  the 
game's final seconds. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Dalton Guthrie (5) throws the ball to first baseman Peter Alonso (20) for a double play during Florida's 
14-3 win against South Carolina on April 10 at McKethan Stadium.
Sophomore infielder to switch positions for Florida baseball
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
On Saturday, Florida took down then-
No. 9 West Virginia. Three days earlier, Ar-
kansas beat then-No. 5 Texas A&M. 
Now, the Gators and 
the Razorbacks are each trying to build on those wins to prove they weren’t 
flukes.
Florida hosts Arkansas 
in the O’Connell Center tonight at 7 as both 
teams return to Southeastern Conference play following this past weekend’s Big 12/
SEC Challenge. 
While the Gators (14-7, 5-3 SEC) defeat-
ed West Virginia, the Razorbacks (11-10, 
4-4 SEC) beat Texas Tech in overtime on 
Saturday. Florida is 10-2 at home all-time 
against Arkansas, but the Razorbacks are playing surprisingly well this year despite their mediocre record.“Arkansas is a very good program. They 
are a very good team,” UF coach Mike White said on Monday. “In their last 10 games you 
talk about a team who beats Vandy, who 
beats Mississippi State…who had their way with Missouri on the road, at LSU they lose 
by two. Their only really 
average performance was 
Kentucky.”
The Razorbacks possess 
three of the SEC’s top-10 scorers in Dusty Hannahs 
(17.0 points per game), Moses Kingsley (16.5) and Anthlon Bell (16.4). They are the only team with more than one player who ranks among the conference’s top-10 scor-
ers. Senior guard Jabril Durham also leads 
the conference with 7.0 assists per game for Arkansas.
Kingsley, the junior forward, ranks third 
in the SEC in rebounds per game (9.4) and 
second in blocks (2.6). As a threat on both Gators to continue SEC slate 
against Razorbacks tonight By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
When a coach has to bring a team’s com-
petitiveness down a notch for fear of players 
hurting each other, that team is probably do-
ing something right. 
And in the lead-up to Sunday’s win against 
No. 12 Kentucky, that’s exactly what wom-
en’s basketball coach Amanda Butler and her 
staff had to do. 
“At practice on Saturday… they were go-
ing at it so hard that we really had to kinda 
pull back the reins and go ‘guys, this is awe-some effort, but let’s not kill each other before 
the game tomorrow,’” Butler said. 
All season, Florida’s aggression and com-
petitiveness have shown through not just in 
practice, but in games.
In Sunday’s bout with UK, Florida demon-
strated those qualities by forcing three jump balls in the first three minutes. It set the tone for the rest of the game, just as it has all sea-son long.
Aside from forcing three jump balls, UF’s combative play is showing up on the stat sheet, as well. 
On defense, the Gators lead the Southeast-
ern Conference with 13.2 steals per game and are third in blocks with 4.9, in large part due to two junior college transfers. 
Tyshara Fleming, nicknamed “Ty Swat-
ter,” is the tallest player on the team at 6-foot-4 and has earned her nickname. Despite aver-aging only 13.6 minutes per game, she’s third 
in the SEC with 38 blocks on the year. 
Along with Fleming, junior Simone West-
brook transferred from Northwest Florida 
State College and has earned the nickname “ninja hands” because of her quickness. She Aggressiveness paying off for UF  WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14 SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 14BASKETBALL“At practice on Saturday… they were 
going at it so hard that we really had 
to kinda pull back the reins and go 
‘guys, this is awesome effort, but let’s 
not kill each other before the game 
tomorrow.’”
Amanda Butler
UF women's basketball coachends of the ﬂ  oor, Kingsley has 
the attention of the Gators, and Florida knows limiting his pro-
duction will be a tough task in 
tonight’s game.
“I don’t think a lot of people 
expected (Arkansas) to be this 
good offensively,” White said. 
“I think they’ve done a really good job with role deﬁ  nition and they’re playing through Moses a lot…they’ve been consistent of-
fensively. I think it starts with 
Kingsley. He just draws atten-tion.”
Florida freshman KeVaughn 
Allen, a native of Little Rock, Ar-kansas, will look to continue his hot scoring pace. Allen is averag-ing 18.4 points per game over the Gators’ last ﬁ  ve games, and is 
shooting 57.7 percent from three-
point range and 87.5 percent from the foul line over that span.
Florida will try to come out 
against Arkansas with the same intensity it did against West Vir-ginia. Dorian Finney-Smith, who became the 51st Gator to reach 1,000 points on Saturday, said Florida must start treating every game like a big game.
“We tend to get up for big 
games against teams that are 
highly rated and highly talented,” 
Finney-Smith said. “We just got to be more internally motivated, and that starts with maturing.”
The Gators can’t afford to 
look past the Razorbacks and as-sume it will be easy going in the O’Dome tonight. Arkansas be-lieves that it is a better team than 
its record indicates, and it will be 
out to prove that tonight against Florida.
“Whatever we have to do 
to prepare ourselves, for a re-ally good team, a really capable team, a team that’s playing really well lately, playing their best bas-ketball, that’s our order of busi-
ness,” White said. “I don’t care 
what these guys are ranked, a team that has been playing well of late in the SEC, we’re gonna 
have to play really well to beat 
these guys.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.orgis second in the SEC in steals with 
55 despite playing only 20.1 min-
utes per game. In comparison, the next player on the SEC’s steals lead-erboard who has played less than Westbrook is her own teammate 
Dyandria Anderson, who checks in 
at No. 11. 
On offense, the Gators have also 
been aggressive. 
At times, they’ve been too aggres-sive.
Going into the Kentucky game, 
UF was taking poor shots in transi-tion. The Gators also panicked when players couldn’t get to the rim by 
throwing up ill-advised, line-drive 
layups that, on at least one occasion, hit the side of the backboard.
Against Kentucky, though, Flori-
da’s offense was clicking.
Freshman Eleanna Christinaki 
featured some of her signature no-look passes to go with solid ball movement. Four Gators scored in double ﬁ  gures and the team scored 
85 points, which tied their largest 
scoring output in SEC play this sea-son. 
Butler credited her team’s bal-
ance for their improved offensive play.
“Our success is not determined 
by one person playing well — we have two or three people playing 
well,” she said. “We have differ-
ent people that continue to step up for us and make plays in different ways… we’ve got, from top to bot-
tom, people that are contributing in 
really critical ways.”
Aggression on offense has also 
appeared on the stat sheet, as the Gators lead the SEC in scoring with 
80.9 points per game. That’s more 
than ﬁ  ve points ahead of No. 2 (both in scoring and in the AP Poll) South Carolina. 
“We always try to take the ﬂ  oor 
and be the more conﬁ  dent and more aggressive team because we feel like we’re always in control of those two factors,” Butler said. “And I think the 
way we started the game yesterday 
was a great demonstration of that.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016
Allen has averaged 18.4 
points in last ive gamesGators lead SEC with 80.9 points per game
W-HOOPS,  from pg 13
HOOPS,  from pg 13
Aaron Albright/ Alligator Staff
Tyshara Fleming goes for a layup during Florida's 85-79 win over 
Kentucky on Sunday in the O'Connell Center.
Archbishop Rummel High in Metairie, Louisiana. If 
you’re a school in need of a lockdown corner, Fulton is your 
guy.
In high school, Fulton’s strengths derived from his elite 
quickness, fast reaction time and impressive recovery speed 
— he ran a 4.47 40-yard dash according to Scout.com. He 
was also a solid one-on-one tackler in the open field and shined in both man-to-man and zone coverage. 
Fulton is the No. 6 ranked cornerback in the nation and 
the No. 1 recruit in Louisiana. He met with recruiters from LSU, Florida and Arkansas during the recruiting period, but after narrowing down his choices to two, he’ll decide be-tween UF and LSU today. Fulton is expected to remain in his 
home state and commit to LSU, but if he surprises everyone 
and flips to UF, the Gators could have a ready-made replace-
ment for departed All-America corner Vernon Hargreaves.
- Ian CohenWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Eight recruits to look out for on National Signing Day 
Finally, National Signing Day is here — the day where recruits across the country sign their national letters of intent 
to formally commit to the college of their choice. Here are eight recruits to watch out for as coach Jim McElwain rounds 
out his second recruiting class at Florida. All information regarding rankings comes from Rivals.com.
Kristian Fulton
6-foot, 175 pounds
Four-star cornerback
Park Crossing High in Montgomery, Alabama. 
Taylor, the No. 23 ranked recruit in Alabama who vis-ited Gainesville on Friday, committed to Florida and is expected to make his commitment official today.
On film, Taylor displayed great playmaking skills, 
whether he was playing the ball, dropping in coverage or in run-stopping situations. 
He also has great closing speed, good catching abil-
ity and shows toughness near the line of scrimmage.
But while he does display above-average tackling 
skills, he doesn’t deliver many big hits, in part due to his slim frame. Taylor will need to bulk up at the col-
legiate level, but once he does, he has all the skills to be successful. 
- Ian Cohen
Jeawon Taylor
6-foot-2, 192 pounds
Three-star safety
American Heritage in Plantation, Florida. Al-
though Florida already has three defensive ends com-
mitted in its 2016 class, Burns remains a top priority heading into signing day. The edge rusher amassed 15.5 sacks and 19 tackles for loss in his senior season 
playing for coach Mike Rumph at American Heritage 
High School in Plantation. 
Burns possesses a quick first step and was able to 
run right past opposing linemen in high school. He’ll need to refine his technique and learn to rely less on his athleticism when he arrives at UF, but Burns has the ceiling to develop into a Dante Fowler-esque player at the BUCK position for the Gators. 
Burns is considered by some to be leaning toward 
the Gators, but Florida State and Georgia are still in the mix. 
- Ethan Bauer
Brian Burns
6-foot-5, 217 pounds
Four-star defensive end
IMG Academy in Bradenton, Florida. Shavar Manuel 
is currently committed to Florida, but per ESPN recruiting reporter Derek Tyson, Manuel is “50-50” between the Gators and rival Florida State. 
He racked up 10 sacks as a freshman in high school, fol-
lowed by 19 as a sophomore and 20 as a junior. 
That production earned Manuel a five-star rating at the 
beginning of his senior year until he got injured and put on some weight, which led to a drop in production. However, that means he has plenty of potential once Florida or Florida State get him in a collegiate conditioning program.
Manuel is built in the mold of Jonathan Bullard — a 
player who’s big enough to play inside but can get pres-
sure outside. Both the Gators and Seminoles would love to 
add that kind of versatility, and Manuel will choose between 
them this afternoon.
- Ethan Bauer
Shavar Manuel
6-foot-3, 310 pounds
Four-star defensive tackleTheodore High in Theodore, Alabama. Lamical 
Perine, the No. 11 running back in the 2016 recruiting 
class, has been committed to Florida since the school 
made him an offer back in May, and he has held firm 
on that verbal commitment so far. But on national sign-
ing day, the Alabama native will have two hats on the table — one for the Gators, the other for the national 
champion Crimson Tide.
He’s still considered Florida’s to lose, but there is a 
hint of doubt now, even after he was in Gainesville over 
the weekend on an official visit.
Perine is a small back but is built well and has decent 
speed, and he will be a good addition to help UF’s depth after the departure of starter Kelvin Taylor, who left to enter the NFL Draft.
- Graham Hack
Lamical Perine
5-foot-11, 211 pounds
Four-star running backFort Dorchester High in North Charleston, South 
Carolina. Every team needs more offensive linemen, but 
with departures on their line following the 2015 season, the 
Gators would be thrilled to add John Simpson.
The South Carolina native is ranked as the 19th-best of-
fensive guard in the country and was invited to participate in the U.S. Army All-American Bowl, but he’s still a raw prospect who will need to develop.
He has good feet and the physical tools to become a good 
player, but he will need to work on his technique. 
Nevertheless, having his depth at guard after losing se-
nior Trip Thurman would be big for McElwain and his staff.
Simpson is also considering Clemson, LSU and Ala-
bama, with Clemson viewed as the favorite. His last visit to 
Gainesville came on Jan. 15, and his last visit overall was to 
Clemson on Jan. 22.
- Graham Hack
 John Simpson
6-foot-4, 288 pounds
Four-star offensive guardWestfield High in Houston, Texas. Tyrie Cleveland 
would give Florida’s offense another much-needed explo-sive weapon to complement Antonio Callaway.
Ranked as the 15th-best wide receiver in this year’s 
class, Cleveland racked up over 2,000 yards receiving, 27 
receiving touchdowns and three return-touchdowns com-
bined during his junior and senior seasons at Westfield.
His speed allows him to blow the top off opposing de-
fenses, but what differentiates him is his unique combina-tion of size to go with his speed, making him effective at competing with defensive backs in the air.
With Antonio Callaway and slot receiver Brandon 
Powell both being under 6-feet, adding a tall weapon 
would be a big plus.
Cleveland is committed to Houston but is also consid-
ering Florida, Arkansas and TCU.
              - Graham HackMiami Norland in Miami, Florida. Although he’s 
been committed to Florida since Feb. 18 of last year, on Tuesday linebacker Vosean Joseph told Miami Herald re-porter David Furones that he’s “50-50” between UF and Alabama. 
Joseph’s film highlights his ability to read plays and 
get to the ball quickly, although his tackling technique will need some work when he gets to college. Joseph’s 
former teammate and fellow linebacker at Miami Nor-
land, Rayshad Jackson, signed with the Gators last year and took a redshirt. And if Joseph signs with Florida, he’ll likely do the same. 
Going into his signing, it has long been thought that 
the Gators are the favorite despite his 50-50 assessment — he was UF’s second commitment in the 2016 class. But it’s hard to turn down Nick Saban and the Crimson Tide. 
- Ethan Bauer
Tyrie Cleveland
6-foot-3, 180 pounds
Four-star wide receiver
Vosean Joseph
6-foot-2, 210 pounds
Three-star linebacker16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2016
Alligator File Photo
Ryan Orr swings during Day 1 of the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invita-
tional at the Mark Bostic Golf Course.
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Typically, the coming of spring 
means a fresh start — out with the 
old and in with the new.
For the 12th-ranked Florida Gators 
men’s golf team and head coach J.C. 
Deacon, however, spring means sus-
taining their fall success.
Although the Gators took a step 
back in the final round of the Sea Best 
Invitational at Dye’s Valley Course at 
TPC Sawgrass in Ponte Vedra Beach 
on Tuesday, their lead grew, blowing away the competition to finish with the lowest score in the eight-year his-tory of the Sea Best Invitational.
“I’m just so proud and happy for 
the guys,” Deacon said in a release. 
“It’s been a lot of hard work, a lot 
of early mornings, a lot of sacrifice, 
and they came out and were unbe-
lievable this week.”
It was never close for the Gators’ 
competition. Despite  finishing the fi-nal round with a 3-over-par 283, UF posted a 14-under-par total of 826 in the 54-hole event. The nearest com-petitors — Liberty, Arkansas and No. 6 North Carolina — were dominated 
by the Gators. 
With a final score of 9-over-par 
549, Liberty finished in second — 
a whopping 23 shots behind the Gators. Arkansas and North Carolina 
tied for third with a 54-hole score of 
18-over-par 858. 
Individually, Florida placed four 
players in the top four: Sam Hors-
field, Alejandro Tosti, Jorge Garcia 
and Ryan Orr.
UF freshman Horsfield, who fin-
ished in first place, and sophomore Tosti, who finished in second, began 
the final round at 7 under par — one 
shot back of North Carolina’s Joshua Martin. 
Martin would bogey his first hole 
— a 558-yard par-5. 
Things wouldn’t get any easier for 
the freshman.
 He would go on to bogey four 
more holes en-route to a birdie-less, 5-over-par 75, giving him sole pos-session of third place at 3 under.
Like Martin, Tosti would also 
struggle. 
He recorded two double bogeys in 
his final round, including one on his first hole, on his way to a 3-over-par 73, finishing in second place alone at 
4 under.
However, the day would reign su-
preme for Horsfield, whose even-par 
70 (7-under total) gave him his first collegiate victory.
Freshman Garcia’s 1-over 71 and 
junior Orr’s even-par 70 rounded out UF’s top-four scorers, as both fin-ished tied for fourth place at 1 under 
par. 
The Gators will look to win their 
third event in a row as they return 
to action to host the SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf 
Course in Gainesville on Feb. 20-21. 
“It was a great day,” Horsfield 
said. “We’ve been working our butts 
off this whole winter, and the results 
showed this week.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgUF men’s golf finishes with lowest 
score in Sea Best Invitational history
Four players placed in top four