By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Presidential candidate Sen. 
Bernie Sanders is coming to UF.
President of Progressive Gators 
Sen. Isaac Netzer (Impact, Col-
lege of Liberal and Sciences) an-nounced during Tuesday night’s UF’s Student Senate meeting that 
the presidential candidate will be 
speaking Thursday at 11 a.m. on University Village South Field, near the Southwest Recreation Center.
“We want to make a push for 
Florida,” Netzer said, adding that the Florida primaries are Tuesday.
About 8,000 people are expect-
ed to attend the event, which is free and open to the public.
Newly-elected Senate Presi-
dent Jenny Clements and Senate President Pro Tempore Smith 
Myers weren’t at the meeting be-
cause of travel delays, said Sen. Ty Robare (Impact, Business Ad-ministration).
Sen. Austin Champoux (Im-
pact, District A) was elected as acting Senate president.
UF Student Body President 
Joselin Padron-Rasines smiled as 
she announced the Florida House 
of Representatives and Senate ap-proved about $14 million of fund-ing for Norman Hall.
“All we need is Gov. Scott to 
sign it,” she said.
UPD Ofﬁ  cer Jeff Holcomb also 
announced a UF Police Student Dialogue on March 16 at Broward 
Dining Hall from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m.
“It’s truly building a relation-
ship between students and depu-
ties,” he said.
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 114 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016
Lorenz is powering the Florida 
softball team
She leads UF in hits, pg. 16
UF holds leadership summit with all female speakers
UF’s College of Engineering held “Powered to Lead” event, pg. 3
UF program helps students relax
It focuses on mindfulness, pg. 9Celebrating women composers
UF hosts the 20th International 
Festival of Women Composers, pg. 8
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
When the Florida football team 
opens Spring practice today, it will be 
doing so without two key playmak-
ers.
Second-year UF coach Jim McEl-
wain announced Tuesday that soph-
omore Antonio Callaway and junior 
Treon Harris will likely be out for the 
entirety of spring ball, and possibly longer.
They have not been with the team since January and there is no time-table for their return, McElwain said. A team spokesman later conﬁ  rmed the two have been indeﬁ  nitely sus-
pended.
“They won’t be with us as we’re 
rolling, so you won’t see those guys 
out there at practice,” McElwain said. “That’ll be the last that we talk about 
that.”
While their status on the team is 
clear, what remains hazy is if the sus-
pensions brought upon Callaway and 
Harris were made by the football pro-gram or the university.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
conﬁ  rmed Tuesday that both Harris 
and Callaway are still enrolled at UF 
but said the university is prohibited 
from discussing a student’s academic record, which includes academic or university-sanctioned suspensions.
Sikes added that it is not possible 
for a student to be simultaneously enrolled and suspended from the uni-versity.
“In short, no,” Sikes said.
Callaway’s absence can cause trouble for a Florida offense that 
struggled down the stretch last sea-son.
The speedy 5-foot-11 wide receiver 
led Florida with 678 receiving yards — a UF true freshman record — and hauled in four touchdowns on 35 catches. He also ﬁ  nished ﬁ  fth nation-
ally with a 15.54-yard punt return av-
erage, with two of his returns going for touchdowns.
And with the Gators’ other top 
pass-catchers from a year ago in re-
ceiver Demarcus Robinson and tight 
end Jake McGee leaving for the NFL Draft and starter Brandon Powell Callaway, Harris suspended heading into spring
Harris
Callaway
 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14McElwain mum on details, timetable
ABOUT 30 PEOPLE 
PARTICIPATED.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
The anti-abortion group Created 
Equal came back to UF on Tuesday with fewer people than last year 
and fewer counter-protesters.
The group travels to college 
campuses to engage students and 
promote its views on abortion, said Sarah Jimenez, an outreach coordinator for the group. She said its members have visited UF for 
about four years. This year, about 
30 people stood on the Plaza of the Americas and Turlington Plaza with large graphic pictures depict-ing abortions.
“We are out here to show the 
truth about abortion,” she said. “We believe that abortion is wrong in any situation.”
She said the images come from an anonymous photographer, and the group has documentation to prove they’re real.
“It’s not pretty to look at. I don’t 
like to look at it,” she said. “No in-justice in the past has been stopped without showing images of the vic-tims.”
Bryan Boggiano held up a sign 
reading “I Stand With PP” (Planned Parenthood) to counter protest the group on the Plaza of the Ameri-Anti-Abortion group returns to UF
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Davis Jackson, left, a 20-year-old UF political science junior, and a student who declined to give 
her name argue with Meg Buehler, right, a member of the anti-abortion group Created Equal on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Sen. Bernie Sanders to 
come to UF Thursday
SEE ABORTION,  PAGE 4Approved seats
 Shereen Al Shalabi ap-
proved for chair of STAAR (Students Taking Action 
Against Racism) by unani-
mous consent
 Senators also approved by 
unanimous consent for the 
Budget and Appropriations committee: Wally Martin, Ben Weiner, Jake Felder and 
Marina Bahmad
 Charlie Brown Jr. (Impact, 
Agricultural and Life Scienc-
es) approved as chairman 
for the Budget and Appro-priations committeeSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a 
Renaissance Festival-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. un-til 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. 
The event will feature a rock 
climbing wall, crafts and face painting. The event will also feature two showings of the movie “Creed” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Free bowling and pool tables will also be a part of the GatorNights event. The 
night will end with free pizza 
during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF stu-dents with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maxi-mum of one guest to the event.
17th Annual Conservation 
Stewards AwardsEach year, Alachua Conservation Trust honors individuals in our commu-nity who have made cultural and environmental protection a priority in their lives. This year’s recipients are Mary, the 
late Peter Gregory and Guy 
Marwick. The festivities kick off with a cocktail hour, fol-lowed by a local foods dinner and the awards ceremony at Prairie Creek Lodge (7204 SE County Road 234) on Saturday from 5:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. The evening will wrap up with 
a performance by bluegrass 
blues band Boilin’ Oil. Tickets are $90, but children under 12 get in for free. For more infor-mation, visit alachuaconserva-tiontrust.org, call 352-373-1078 or email info@alachuaconser-
vationtrust.org.
Pride Awareness Month
The Pride Awareness Month’s 
opening ceremonies will take place Monday at 6 p.m. in the University Auditorium. This year’s keynote speaker will be Alicia Garza. An established 
social activist, Garza prompted 
activism nationwide when she — together with Opal Tometi and Patrisse Cullors — intro-duced the world to the Twitter hashtag #BlackLivesMatter. The hashtag has evolved into the banner under which this generation’s civil rights move-
ment marches. Committed to 
challenging society to recog-nize and celebrate the con-tributions of all individuals, specifically black people and queer communities, Garza’s activism is rooted in organi-zational strategies and visions to connect individuals and 
emerging social movements. 
Her work has earned her vari-ous honors, including two Harvey Milk Democratic Club Community Activist Awards, for her work fighting gentrifi-cation and environmental rac-ism in San Francisco’s largest remaining black community.
iSTEAM Seminar Series 
Presents Demo of Brain-Controlled DroneDoctoral candidates Marvin Andujar and Chris Crawford at UF’s Brain-Computer Interface Group will speak on Neural Methods of Brain-Robot Interaction at the Marston 
Science Library on March 16 at 
3 p.m. in Room L136 (first floor of Marston). They will conduct an indoor flight demonstration of their brain-controlled drone and discuss their research in measuring and enhancing the user’s physiological engage-ment levels with wearable elec-
troencephalographic technolo-
gies. The iSTEAM Speakers Series presents topics of inter-est to students majoring in sci-ence, technology, engineering, arts and/or math.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event be-fore 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 
words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 114
HIGH  82° LOW  57°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
CAMPUS
By Brian Dusape
Alligator Contributing Writer
Thirteen speakers told UF students to be 
conﬁ  dent at a leadership summit Tuesday.  
UF’s College of Engineering held “Pow-
ered to Lead,” an annual engineering summit 
that connects UF students with engineering 
leaders, in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. 
For the ﬁ  rst time, the event featured all female speakers who have leadership experience within the ﬁ  eld of technology.
About 60 people attended the event held 
on International Women’s Day.
Pryana Lewis, a UF computer science 
sophomore, said the event helped her grow as a person. She said the event inspired her 
to hear stories about how other women 
achieved their goals to further their profes-sional careers.
“I felt empowered to see how many female 
executives there are in the (Science, Technol-ogy, Engineering and Mathematics) ﬁ  eld,” the 19-year-old said.
Shellye Archambeau, the CEO of Metric-
Stream, a software company, spoke about 
how conﬁ  dence is the largest barrier women 
face when competing for greater leadership roles in the STEM workforce.
“The biggest challenge you will probably 
face is focusing on how well you can stand out from the rest of your competition,” she said. “And half of the battle of showing out is conﬁ  dence.”
The former IBM executive told the audi-ence to stand tall and, if need be, fake it until they make it.
Linda Hudson, the chairwoman of the 
Cardea Group, an asset management recruit-ment ﬁ  rm, told the audience communication is important.
“If you can’t speak up and communicate 
your ideas, you inhibit your own success,” she said.
Hudson spoke with other panelists who 
stressed the importance of engaging with and learning from male colleagues to survive in 
the male-dominated ﬁ  eld.
Rebecca Smith, the founder and president 
of the Tampa-based construction company 
A.D. Morgan, said women should be vocal and conﬁ  dent.
She said leadership roles are offered to 
women less frequently than men.
Despite the difﬁ  culties they may face in 
competing for top management positions at 
technology companies, Smith urged the fe-
male members of the audience to avoid show-ing emotion in the workplace.
“Business is business,” she said. “If things 
get emotional, simply take yourself out of the circumstance and breathe.”
Josh Benjamin, a UF environmental engi-
neering junior, said he attended the event to see the struggles women face.
“I think it’s very important to come out 
to events like these to become familiar with the obstacles women have to overcome,” the 21-year-old said. “It will be important later on for when we will have to work together.”UF holds leadership summit with all female speakers
Brian Dusape / Alligator
Attendees gather to listen to a panel of technology executives at UF’s College of Engi-
neering’s “Powered to Lead” event at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Tuesday.
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ray Tomlinson, the American computer 
programmer credited for inventing email, died 
of a heart attack at the age of 74 on Saturday.
Tomlinson, who joined the Internet Hall of 
Fame in 2012, used the existing “at” sign to 
separate a username from its host in 1971.
Now the sign  is found across the Web and 
on different social media platforms.
Professor David Carlson, who teaches In-
ternet history and online services at UF, met 
Tomlinson at a conference in Colorado Springs more than 22 years ago.
He said  Tomlinson seemed like an easy-
going, humble man.
Despite having invented something influen-
tial, Carlson said, most people will never know who Tomlinson was.
“If we think about how much online 
communication has changed the world and changed the way we interact, (email) is one of the most important inventions of the last 50 years,” he said.
Carlson said he could previously only con-
tact a friend in St. Petersburg, Russia, with a phone call at 4 a.m. or air mail, which could take weeks.
Now, there are no geographic limitations to 
friendship, he said.
“The world has gotten larger because of 
communication,” Carlson said.
Daniel Helbig, a 19-year-old UF computer 
science freshman, said he got his first email in 
fifth grade and now checks his university email 
about four times per day.
“Instead of having to wait weeks, you get 
someone’s message in a couple seconds,” he said. “That’s pretty amazing.”Inventor of 
the email dies at age 74NATIONAL
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
After Tuesday’s meeting, the Alachua 
County Commission decided to continue 
debating changes to a minimum-wage ordi-nance April 12.
Commissioners discussed how the ordi-
nance, which could set a $12-per-hour mini-mum wage for employees under contract with Alachua County, should be framed around certain exemptions.
The exemptions discussed at Tuesday’s 
meeting would allow companies to pay cer-tain people less than the $12 minimum.
“The devil in these things is always in 
the exemptions,” Commissioner Mike Byerly 
said.
Commissioners removed several groups from the exemptions and kept other catego-
ries, such as people with certain disabilities who might have trouble competing for em-
ployment.
“If they can make ten widgets in an hour 
and then it takes the disabled person two 
hours to make those 10 widgets, then they’re allowed to decrease the minimum wage by a percentage,” Commissioner Michele Li-eberman said. “It allows these individuals to work.”
About 70 people attended the meeting.
Evelyn Foxx, the president of Alachua 
County’s branch of the NAACP, said her or-
ganization supports the ordinance, but she wants fewer exemptions, especially for dis-abled people.
“Please do not exclude them or any of the 
other groups, because that would be discrimi-nation,” she said, addressing the commission.  
Jeremiah Tattersall, a lead organizer for 
the Alachua County Labor Coalition, said 
the ordinance would affect about 200 county 
workers, depending on the exemptions.
“Workers deserve a minimum wage,” he 
said.  
Tattersall said the coalition members will 
continue to push for $14.60 per hour within the next five years. The ordinance is a start-ing point for allowing residents to live without outside assistance.
“If you work for a living, you should be 
able to live off that,” he said.  
Commissioners will evaluate the proposed 
ordinance and exemptions April 12.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgCommission discusses minimum wage rules
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Supporters of the proposed Minimum Wage Ordinance wait in line to speak during the open forum period of the Alachua 
County Commission meeting on Tuesday evening.
cas. He said he wanted to protest 
the group peacefully.
“While I do think their way has 
some flaws, and while it’s some-thing I don’t personally agree with, they’re protesting peacefully,” the 20-year-old UF criminology sopho-
more said.
Last year, Created Equal part-
nered with a California anti-abor-
tion group called Survivors of the Abortion Holocaust. There were about 50 people protesting, and 
they had a Jumbotron-sized screen 
depicting an abortion video.
This year, the California group 
did not come, and there was no 
screen.
Jordan Steckler, a UF linguistics 
senior, said she was offended last 
year when the group compared 
abortions to the Holocaust.
“I’m Jewish, you really want to 
talk to me about that?” she said.  
This year, she said she ignored 
the group while walking through 
the Plaza of the Americas.“They asked me what I thought 
of the pictures, and I didn’t an-swer,” the 22-year-old said.
Maria Faret, a UF business 
sophomore, said she agreed with the group. While the pictures were graphic, they depicted what abor-tions are.
“I do believe it’s killing a hu-
man being,” the 19-year-old said. “I think it’s more of the right of the baby than the mom.”
Grant Schwab, a UF political 
science senior, said he is planning a counter protest of the group’s im-ages for students today. He said al-though Created Equal has the legal right to present its views on cam-
pus, students who don’t agree have 
the responsibility to protest.
“Their imagery is inappropriate 
and disgusting,” the 21-year-old 
said.  “We will come to debate and 
we will counter their argument.”
Created Equal will be on the 
Plaza and Turlington today from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgABORTION,  from pg 1The group has been protesting abortion on campus for about four years
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Signs like these were placed by the anti-abortion group Created Equal to warn students of graphic im-
ages on the Plaza of the Americas and Turlington Plaza.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writer
UF held its 10th annual startup show-
case on International Women’s Day.
On Tuesday UF President Kent Fuchs 
and speakers from around the U.S. helped 
local startup companies funded or housed 
at UF network with investors and with each 
other. The event took place at the Hilton UF Conference Center.
Fuchs delivered opening remarks, telling 
the crowd of about 300 that he’s looking forward to the progress UF’s startups will make in the future.
“The past decade is nothing compared to 
the next decade,” he said.
Karen Zaderej, president and CEO of Ax-
oGen, and other panelists spoke about how to create a startup, from the initial idea to securing funding. Her company aims to re-pair nerve damage.
Shirley Pincus said she underwent sur-
gery in 2013 after being diagnosed with severe peripheral nerve damage, which 
caused her white-hot pain. During the pro-
cedure, the company’s Avance Nerve Graft replaced the damaged nerves.
Without the startup, she said she 
wouldn’t have been able to walk into the 
conference room Tuesday.
Carolyn Kreuzkamp, a marketing fellow 
at the UF Office of Technology Licensing, which hosted the event, said the event al-lowed her to connect with professionals in the industry.
The UF biochemistry senior said she 
hopes to go into a field involving science and business. 
“Seeing other women in the science and 
business fields speaking passionately is re-ally encouraging,” the 22-year-old said.
Kreuzkamp said the event could be im-
proved for next year.
“I think it would be really inspira-
tional and just a really good way to kick off the event by maybe having someone speak coming from ‘I graduated UF at 21 and started a business at 21, and everyone thought I was crazy, but look at me right now,’” she said.
@ebaueri 
ebauer@alligator.orgFuchs speaks at startup event
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Nearly two months since the U.S. Supreme 
Court ruled against Florida’s unusual system of imposing death sentences, Gov. Rick Scott approved a new sentencing law Monday morning.
In January, the Court ruled that Florida 
judges who handed down death sentences in spite of the jury’s findings were violating the Sixth Amendment. Key changes in the new law include a requirement for the system to have at least 10 jurors agree on a death sen-tence as opposed to seven.
Additionally, jurors must unanimously 
agree on at least one aggravating circumstance 
before recommending execution. The old law 
held that a simple majority sufficed.
For George Dekle, a long-time prosecution lawyer and current UF associate professor in the Levin College of Law, Florida’s new law will not solve the problem the Supreme Court 
wanted to fix. 
Dekle said sentencing procedures will be 
significantly different, but a judge could still 
rule against a jury’s recommendation if the judge deemed it necessary.
“There’s no remedy for that,” Dekle said. 
“If a judge opposes a sentence, the state can’t appeal that sentence.”
The adoption of new procedures ended a 
halt on executions for the state’s nearly 400 death-row inmates, Dekle said, and now the justices made a ruling to appease themselves.
“This law is placating the Supreme Court of 
the United States,” he said. 
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgNew sentencing law approved
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
DJ Khaled and Bo Burnham are coming 
to UF.
The producer and comedian will per-
form at the Reitz Union Board of Entertain-ment’s third annual Big Orange Festival 
at the Reitz Union on March 18 at 8 p.m. 
Students can pick up one ticket to see either per-former. Students cannot get tickets to see both, according to the event’s Facebook page.
Bo Burnham will per-
form at 9 p.m. in the 
Grand Ballroom, and DJ 
Khaled will perform at 11 p.m. in the Rion Ballroom. As of press time, RUB Entertainment did not disclose how much each performer is being paid.
Students can pick up a free ticket March 
17 and 18 from at 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the registration counter on the second floor of the Reitz Union. Students must bring their Gator 1 Cards. Those who don’t get a ticket early can wait in standby lines the night 
of the performance, according to the page.
Aaron Sager, a UF mechanical engineer-
ing freshman, said he expected the event to 
include major celebrities.
“The University of Florida is finally get-
ting entertainers and performers it finally 
deserves, given how big the market it is,” the 19-year-old said.
Nick Natural, a UF 
chemical engineering sophomore, said he will attend Bo Burnham’s per-
formance.
“I think he will be 
one of the best comedi-
ans that comes to UF as long as I’ve been here,” the 19-year-old said.
@merylkornfield 
mkornfield@alligator.orgLine-up for Big Orange released
Burnham
 DJ Khaled
Ethan Bauer / Alligator Staff
From left: Shirley Pincus, Tim Gray, Karen Zaderej and Christine Schmidt dis-
cuss the journey a startup company takes from the idea to the business at the 
Hilton UF Conference Center on Tuesday.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Pro-life is 
pro-inconsistency
If you step foot on UF’s campus today, there’s probably 
a 110-percent chance you’ll run into Created Equal, the pro-life organization that comes to Turlington Plaza and Plaza of the Americas every Spring with posters and grand screenings of graphic imagery. Thankfully, they 
couldn’t afford the giant screen this semester. We at the Al-ligator boiled down their message to one sentence: Human life begins at conception; therefore, abortion should be con-sidered the illegal murder of innocent human beings.
First of all, who’s to say human life begins at concep-
tion? Every peer-reviewed study or medical journal we came 
across deﬁ  nes conception as the joining of a sperm and egg 
cell into a zygote. Nowhere can we ﬁ  nd a deﬁ  nitive scien-
tiﬁ  c claim that human life begins speciﬁ  cally at the zygote. 
In fact, you may realize that, before discussing where hu-man life begins, we must ﬁ  rst establish what distinguishes human life from all other. Is it consciousness, emotion or 
free will?
Whatever the case, zygotes are not any more capable 
of these human qualities than, say, their sperm or egg cell 
predecessors. Yet, millions of such sperm cells die in the process of producing a zygote in the ﬁ  rst place, which com-
pletely undermines the whole life-begins-at-conception ar-
gument. In the words of comedian George Carlin, “People say life begins at conception, I say life began about a billion 
years ago and it’s a continuous process. Continuous, just 
keeps rolling along.”
Another aspect of Created Equal’s argument is its goal to 
protect life at all costs. This then brings the discussion to a 
very subjective place, because at what point do we ascribe 
more value to life than the quality of that life? If a mother feels she is unable — ﬁ  nancially, physically or psychologi-cally — to carry a child and raise him or her properly, then perhaps it’s best to not deliver the baby into such a situa-
tion. And unfortunately, putting kids through the orphanage 
and adoption system doesn’t always work out as nicely as it does in the movie “Juno.” As crass as it may sound, it’s far easier to make another baby than for a woman to be legally 
bound to endure nine months of pregnancy and subsequent-
ly re-establish her life.
In fact, if the pro-life goal is truly to ﬁ  ght for the life of 
the child, then we should see these same pro-life protests against childhood poverty, child homelessness and civilian-
child casualties in any military venture. But we rarely see 
this, do we?
It’s not to say being pro-life is wrong. In fact, many of us 
at the Alligator are unsure of whether we would abort our 
own children. But the true issue at hand is whether we as 
Americans should outlaw abortion across the board, or even allow for states like Mississippi and Texas to make it nearly 
impossible for women to get an abortion. Ultimately, this 
issue is not about our personal lifestyle choices: It’s about expressing empathy across the board, however difﬁ  cult that may be.
Just as any willing and able family should be able to bring 
a beautiful new child into the world, no woman should be legally bound to bring forth a child she doesn’t want or can’t practically care for.English is not the American national language
“You want to be in America, A) You’d 
better be here legally or you’re out of here; B) When you’re here, let’s speak American.” — Sarah Palin
There is no consideration of 
language in context without explicit reference to power structures, because language provides a crucial means of reinforcing cultural and political hegemony. English in America and elsewhere is a linguistic placeholder for colonialism: an inva-sive species that stood the test of time. As such, to interpret what Palin meant — and what she and many others sadly fear — we are compelled to examine the interface of power and language policy in the U.S. within the 
scope of national identity.
As it is not speciﬁ  ed in the Constitution or by law, our 
country has no ofﬁ  cial language, although English has cer-
tainly come to embody, de facto, many of the functions of a national or ofﬁ  cial language. Crucially though, it is absurd to assert that our national language is in fact “American” English for two reasons: One, language practice in the U.S. is naturally and heavily marked by other languages; two, no single, objective “English” exists.
First and foremost, English is a foreign entity in the Amer-
icas and does not factor into the righteous and manifold lin-guistic traditions of Amerindians. If we assert English as a national language of the U.S., then Navajo, Seminole and Sioux just as soon must make the cut.
Part of the American-dream myth — the very entity that 
rendered Timucua and so many other Amerindian languages extinct — is the notion of the “melting pot,” generally taught as a metaphor for the superiority of assimilation over diver-
sity. However, in practice, I believe resistance to such homo-
geneous ideals of what it means to be “American” is what truly makes America great.
Walk around New York City, a truly fantastic and mar-
velous place — also a pinnacle of Americana — and you see clearly how the maintenance of non-American cultures there constitutes, perhaps paradoxically, part of our “Ameri-can identity,” which is itself haphazard and rich in diverse inﬂ  uences. Without taking into account America’s intense linguistic diversity, we fail to recognize our national essence.
Granted, the children of immigrants usually 
learn English natively, but to assert that an im-
migrant should abandon his or her mother tongue 
is crass and also wholly ignores the practice of multilingualism in the vast majority of contexts around the world.
As for the “American” that Americans should 
speak, what would that entail precisely? Every in-dividual in the world speaks distinctly, per inﬂ  u-
ences of language, gender, socioeconomic status, education, ideology, manner, etc. Keeping this in mind, wouldn’t it be 
a little shortsighted to assert that the only “standard” accept-
able is a very speciﬁ  c register of “English,” which in practice is only spoken by a small segment of the population? If part of a person’s authentic self is his or her variety of Mandarin Chinese or Colombian Spanish, then by all means that could ﬁ  gure into his or her valid American identity.
We cannot assert any entity called “American” English as 
a totality if we are simultaneously to dismiss the great and marvelous diversity of practice that such a collective entity 
truly entails — both within and without the spectrums of 
“English.” Per our humanness and the validity of each indi-vidual experience, every stratiﬁ  ed subdialect and individual idiolect is a building block in the structure of America’s lan-guage practice and, ultimately, America.
The history of our country — and hemisphere — is large-
ly one of dispossession and destruction, whereby colonists ravaged the indigenous cultures and lands of the Americas. By their designs and metrics, which are still present today, 
this project of standardization was perceived as successful. 
In human terms, however, the immense reduction of diver-sity and imposition of norms has been a catastrophe.
Yes, English is utilized extensively in our national con-
text, but this does not mean it is or should ever be deemed our ofﬁ  cial — or even national — language.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics master’s 
student. His column appears on Wednesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Just like the stomach, the hu-
man brain needs nourish-ment.
There is a variety of fod-
der for an individual of the 
21st century. Advances in tech-nology have provided a bountiful 
supply of all sorts of foods, some 
rich in nutrients, others not so much. Though it is true and good that fewer people starve because of this, more and more of them are inclined to ingest 
food-stuff devoid of sustenance. The ersatz 
for nourishment has grown more abundant and proliferous in the diets of many. So, too, have these trends shown true for mental fod-
der. And while the movement to ensure ev-
ery average American has access to a truly nutrient-rich, poison-free diet does exist, the same cannot be said of the average Ameri-can’s intellectual provisions.
A little junk food is OK. In fact as an epi-
curean, it should be encouraged. But if one were to eat nothing but junk food, one’s body would incur a heavy amount of damage. The 
same goes for the mind, which incurs similar 
damage whenever we eat up the incessant tabloids at the grocery store checkout line in lieu of well-written newspapers. Likewise, when we ﬂ  ood our ear canals with vapid 
commercial music, we not only allow our-
selves to glamorize and encourage a thought-less party mentality, we simply become more stupid. I do not absolve myself entirely from 
this message either, for we all need to listen 
to a little more Beethoven. Rather, it is im-portant to take a step back from this satu-ration of empty entertainment in which too many Americans take part.
There actually are mentally impaired 
people in this country: people whose IQs are the reason for their illiteracy and unfounded phobias. Therefore, it is a momentous sin for a person 
with the potential to be educated 
— whether through institution or through individual means — to forego that path in favor of tem-
porary pleasures like a season of 
Fuller House and “dropping E” — taking Ecstasy — at the latest, hot-
test, sexiest, coolest music festival.
That’s another thing. Let’s stop pretend-
ing every music festival in America is akin to the magic of the Woodstock Music & Art Fair and start understanding what they really are: a bunch of kids who want to do drugs 
and leave heaps of trash in their wake while 
pretending to care about the environment in their daily lives. Imagine if instead of all of the time one spent eating mushrooms and seizing to Skrillex, one strove to understand 
the history of our country or the philosophies 
of Kant, Confucius and Kierkegaard.
Now, I don’t personally understand the 
latter, but it’s not my job to do so. It’s my job 
to spend my time telling you to stop giving 
Michael Bay your unfettered patronage and open up a damn book. How about the King James for starters. No, not the basketball player, I mean the book that likely inspired 
your tattoo.   
Read this and look up words you don’t 
understand, as well as work from the afore-
mentioned philosophers. There is hope, 
however, for if you put in just enough time 
— though not too much — you can become a rambling pseudo-intellect and conﬁ  ne your simple-minded pleasures for the weekend.
Justin Ford is a Santa Fe College journal-
ism junior. His column usually appears on Tuesdays.Read a damn book and feed your mindColumn
I  was going to take time in this 
column to wow my potential reader with the concept of the “Library Bar”: a holy sanctuary of alcoholic beverages and dog-
eared, good-smelling books, which would have been gloriously fun to write about.
But unfortunately, that will have 
to wait for a happier time. UF stu-dents woke up Monday morning to the dreaded reality that a visit we’ve been avoiding for months has indeed come. Those doggone anti-abortion protesters, the group 
called Created Equal is back at it again on our 
lovely campus, spouting religion-based bigotry and potentially triggering images. 
I’ve written about these people before, but 
after three years of them setting up shop for a week or so every Spring semester, I think it’s grown dull. My attempts to interact with these people include everything from hearing their arguments, to declaring that I really disagree 
with and dislike their organization, to suggest-
ing they start handing out free condoms so people can get something potentially beneﬁ  cial out of an upsetting conversation. 
I am tired of them. They will never change 
my opinions, and it seems unlikely they will glean anything from what people who share my views have to say. Many of the Created Equal protesters I see lounging around on Tur-
lington Plaza with mulish expressions look 
like they barely know what they want to be when they grow up, much less if this is how they should be spending their time. However, in keeping with my bookish column theme, I present to you, dear reader, a few related titles to page through if you are interested in hearing something other than the fear-mongering pro-paganda spewed by Created Equal this week. 
Behold: “Babygate: How to Survive Preg-
nancy and Parenting in the Workplace,” by Dina Bakst, Phoebe Taubman and Elizabeth Gedmark. It looks at the discrimination moth-ers and expectant mothers face at work. It explores root causes and provides advice on how to navigate one’s way through the already-perilous-enough trials of building 
a family. It’s an excellent look into 
some issues more people should be discussing instead of ﬁ  ghting over the rights of unborn fetuses.
“Pro: Reclaiming Abortion 
Rights,” by Katha Pollitt: Could I 
resist throwing in a little pro-choice literature? No, I could not. Created Equal wouldn’t like this book, but they should probably read it 
anyway. Pollitt uses facts and information to 
back up her arguments while reminding her readers of the tragedies that can and did hap-pen to women and families when fundamen-tal choices regarding their bodies and futures were stripped away.
And ﬁ  nally, on a lighter note, I present “Yes 
Means Yes: Visions of Female Sexual Power and a World without Rape,” by Jaclyn Fried-
man and Jessica Valenti. This book actually 
inspired a sex-positive seminar that runs every semester at UF called “Yes Means Yes."  Ev-erything I’ve heard about it says you should go sign up right now. For anyone with questions about safe sex, great sex, sexual identity and consent, look no further. When it comes to the abortion debate, better sex education is an idea everyone should agree with.
Maybe someone from Created Equal will 
pick up this paper between bouts of self-righ-teous rhetoric and decide to add some titles to their reading list this year. No matter where you stand on the issue of abortion rights, I hope these books are informative, interesting and a respite from images of mangled fetuses on your morning Starbucks commute. I sup-pose at this point in today’s overly politicized 
climate, that’s about all one can hope for.
Sally Greider is an English and public rela-
tions junior. Her column appears on Wednes-
days.
Books to counter anti-abortionistsColumn
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.org
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.orgLetter to the Editor
Dear Dr. Fuchs,
#NotMySystem would like to thank you for 
meeting with members of our team for more 
than an hour on Monday to discuss the system 
of oppression within UF Student Government. We are incredibly grateful that you took the time to meet with us and listened so intently 
to our concerns. We hope the 350-page his-tory of The System we presented, including 
dozens of student testimonials from both SG political parties, was helpful. As we discussed 
in our meeting, we will be presenting more 
letters to you and additional information as it becomes available. Students interested in submitting a letter can email notmysystem@
gmail.com by Friday. Thank you so much, Dr. Fuchs, for listening to us as we explained how 
The System formed during racial integration to prevent students of color from becoming 
involved within Student Government and 
Florida Blue Key. Thank you for reading the letters from students of color, women, the LG-BTQ+ community, religious minorities and 
non-afﬁ  liated students today who continue to be discriminated against by the exclusionary 
System. Creating an environment where all Gators are able to fully participate in student 
government and express themselves political-
ly without fear of relation is a crucial step to becoming a top-10 public institution.
Thank you,
#NotMySystemBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Ever since Gainesville Police Officer 
Bobby White played basketball with local 
kids and became an Internet celebrity, he 
decided to use the sport to mend what he 
called a broken relationship between youth and police.
In February, White led the construction 
of a basketball court in the kids’ neighbor-hood, and now he plans to do the same at an apartment complex and a church.
At about 6:30 p.m. Monday, White, 
otherwise known as the Basketball Cop, 
will host a tournament at Gainesville High 
School.
The best players from six public high 
schools will compete against officers from four departments.
“I can’t imagine that we’re gonna beat 
these kids, especially if they pick their all-stars from each team, but it’ll be fun,” White said.
Tickets will cost $5 for general admis-
sion and $2 for kids 12 and under, accord-ing to a press release.        
The funds will go toward White’s newly 
established Basketball Cop Foundation, which uses donations to bring basketball 
equipment to Gainesville neighborhoods.
White announced the foundation Feb. 
23 and has since raised more than $5,500, 
which will go toward installing basketball 
courts and hoops at Granada Apartments, 
located on Northwest Fourth Street, and the Upper Room of Greater Gainesville, a church on Southeast 15th Street.The projects will cost roughly $10,000 
in total, he said.
White’s goal, he said, is to motivate po-
lice departments from across the country to use his model.
Zac Zedalis, a former detective with the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office and cur-rent candidate for sheriff, will play along-
side White on Monday.
“Really everybody wins, even if we get 
beat pretty bad, so I’m excited about it,” 
he said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Santiago Perez arrived in 
America to work in the fields.
He planted and picked toma-
toes, but instead of finding the American dream, he says he saw harassment and discrimination.
Perez said he then joined the 
Coalition of Immokalee Work-ers, a national human rights or-ganization that supports a fair working environment for farm workers.
On Friday, 60 members of 
the CIW will visit Gainesville as part of its Workers’ Voice Tour, which will also include states 
such as Kentucky and New 
York, said Sheila Payne, a mem-ber of Gainesville’s Interfaith Alliance for Immigrant Justice.
The national tour will focus 
on the organization’s boycott of Wendy’s, the only food cor-poration among the “big five” — which also includes Yum 
Brands, McDonald’s, Burger 
King and Subway — to decline the CIW’s Campaign for Fair Food, she said.
The campaign was created to 
provide workers with safer con-ditions and higher pay, Payne said. Companies that are part of the campaign pay more for 
produce and have their fields in-
spected to meet the Alliance for Fair Food’s standards.
She said auditors try to con-
vince companies to pay one cent 
more per pound of tomatoes 
and give the profits to workers, Payne said.
Aside from receiving low 
wages, she said workers can suffer from sexual abuse, slav-ery and poor health conditions caused by pesticides.
Payne said the average life 
expectancy for farm workers is 49 years.
“It’s No. 2 for death by ac-
cident, too, because of farm 
equipment, pesticides,” she 
said. “The only thing that tops it is lumbering — you know, lum-berjacks — and I don’t know if they’re No. 1 anymore.”
Perez said everyone con-
sumes produce, which connects them to farm workers and the is-sues they face.
“I come from the field and I 
know what the work is like, and I feel what farm workers feel,” he said.  Farm workers 
boycotting Wendy’s will visit Gainesville
• National Workers’ 
 Voice Tour, Friday
 Open house and presentation
 10 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.
 Tyree Library at Santa Fe 
College
• Meeting with CIW 
 members
 11 a.m. to noon at the UF 
Institute for Hispanic-Latino 
Cultures at La Casita
• Chispas UF public rally
 Start at Norman Field at 3 p.m., march to Reitz Union at 3:30 p.m.
Basketball cop plans all-star tournament
UF HOSTS THE 20TH 
INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL 
OF WOMEN COMPOSERS.
By Madeleine DeSena
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students can enjoy live mu-
sic from France, Italy, India and 
other countries this weekend.
UF is hosting the 20th Interna-
tional Festival of Women Com-posers this week. A free concert will be held Saturday at 7:30 p.m. 
at UF’s School of Music, Room 
101. More than 20 performers will play music composed by women from all over the world.
The concert was organized 
by Miriam Zach, the festival’s founder and creative director. Zach, a music professor at UF, 
started the event to honor female 
composers.
Angela Jonas, an executive 
administrative assistant at the School of Music, said she will 
sing German art songs from the 
romantic period. 
The pieces she chose are 
by Fanny Mendelssohn, Clara 
Schumann and Alma Mahler, 
which she selected because she usually sings opera, Jonas said.“I have sung for 25 years from 
a limited pool of composers, and this was an opportunity for me to branch out,” Jonas said.
Ferol Carytsas, the volunteer 
coordinator at UF Health Shands Arts in Medicine, wrote in an email that she will be perform-ing pieces by Wilhelmine von Bayreuth on the viola.
“I wanted to be a part of this 
event because I feel it is impor-tant to recognize and feature works by female composers,” 
Carytsas said. “The diversity of 
performers and repertoire is in-teresting and exciting.”Celebrating women composers
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gainesville Police Officer Bobby White 
waves to the crowd before an Orlando Magic basketball game at the Amway Center on Feb. 7.The game will be Monday
“I can’t imagine that we’re gonna beat 
these kids, especially if they pick their 
all-stars from each team, but it’ll be 
fun.”
Bobby White
Gainesville Police Officer LOCAL
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
BALANCING ACT
UF chemical engineering sophomores Mitchell Joppru, 19, and Morgan Eddy, 20, ride unicycles at the Reitz Union on Tuesday evening with UF’s juggling and unicycling club, Objects in Motion.By Jena Bezesky
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s colleges are helping stu-
dents de-stress through a series 
of teaching sessions.
The UF Mindfulness project, 
which teaches meditation tech-niques, started its ﬁ  rst Mindful-ness Wave, a series of free ses-
sions to teach students to relax 
and be in touch with their sens-es. Classes, taught by members of the mindfulness team, will run through April.
The goal of the teaching ses-
sions is to bring attention to mindful practices — such as breathing exercises, meditation 
and focusing on the present — 
said Sabine Grunwald, a UF soil and water science professor and the UF Mindfulness project’s leader.
She said she wants students 
to know that mindfulness isn’t religious, and all students can participate.
“We want to raise awareness 
that it’s out there and available to you and to break down some of the misconceptions,” Grun-wald said. “We can understand 
it only if we experience it by practice, which can be done by 
attending the sessions.”
She said by being mindful, 
students can avoid burnout, anxiety and a decreased at-tention span. Mindfulness can strengthen students’ communi-
cation skills, creativity and pro-ductivity.
Grunwald said UF Mindful-
ness wants to bring mindfulness 
techniques to UF’s campus.
“It is a huge effort of ours to 
see more mindfulness classes in-cluded in the graduate and un-dergraduate level,” Grunwald said.
Jeremy Koelmel, a UF ﬁ  fth-
year doctoral chemistry student and co-facilitator for the UF Meditation Club, said the club hosts weekly group meditations 
on campus.
He said some students ﬁ  nd 
the club through UF Mindfulness 
and is glad UF is teaching stu-
dents how to handle their stress.
“With the stress that comes 
with school, I think it’s a healthy 
practice that everyone should be interested in,” the 26-year-
old said. “Meditation keeps me 
sane.”WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
UF program helps students relax
Mindfulness Events
 Friday
 1:30 p.m. to 3 p.m., 
 Facilities Administra-
tion Building education room by Jan Snyder
 March 16
1 p.m. to 2:30 p.m., College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Dauer Hall, Room 219, by Sabine Grunwald and 
Monika Ardelt
 March 23
 11 a.m. to noon., Col-
lege of Arts, Fine Arts 
Building C, Room 118, by Ana Puig
 March 25
 11 a.m. to noon, 
Facilities Administra-tion Building education room by Ferdinand Lewis
 March 29
2:30 p.m. to 4 p.m. 
Facilities Administra-tion Building education 
room by Ferdinand 
LewisCITY GOVERNMENT
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Contributing Writer
A local group is petitioning to 
change the city’s election cycle in hopes of increasing voter turnout 
and saving money.
Gainesville Votes! wants elec-
tions in the city to closely follow 
the county, state and federal elec-
tion routine, meaning elections 
would be held on even-numbered years.
Thomas Hawkins, a commu-
nity activist on the Gainesville 
Votes! team, said the petition 
needs 7,500 signatures to move forward.
The petition started at the be-
ginning of this month and will run through May. 
Hawkins said he personally 
had 150 signatures as of Monday evening.
Out of 75,000 voters registered 
in Gainesville, about 11 percent will vote in the city’s yearly elec-tions, Hawkins said.
He said voter turnout spikes to 
about 75 percent when there is a state or presidential candidate on the ballot.“A very small number of peo-
ple are deciding what happens 
with this community politically,” 
Hawkins said.
If Gainesville followed the 
school board’s even-year elec-tion cycle, he said, it would save 
about $190,000 each year — a 
savings of about 75 percent. 
“We want everyone who cares 
about saving money and partici-
pating in local elections to sign 
the petition,” Hawkins said.
District 4 Commission candi-
date Adrian Hayes-Santos said he supports the petition.
“I think it’s a great initiative 
for the city that will help save money and also increase voter participation,” he said.Local group looks to 
change election cycleIt focuses on mindfulness
Gainesville Votes!
 3449 NW 11th Ave.
 Gainesvillevotes.org
 Upon passing, the 
option would be placed on November ballotsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
For rent - 8/15/2016 to 8/14/2017. Private owner has 4 bedroom/4 private bathrooms, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer on bus route 1 mile from UF. ONE YEAR LEASE. $375/mo/room Call 352-586-6468    3-9-16-10-1
2bd/2bth townhouse, SW Gainesville, Haile Plantation, cheerful and artistic, furnished, beds, sheets, TV, DVD, washer/dryer, fully equipped kitchen, small front garden, back porch, high ceiling, next to town center, na-ture trails, bike paths, quiet, utilities and in-ternet included, $400/wk + security deposit. No pets. Call 352-256-1211.    3-9-16-5-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-52/2 Las Pampas TOWNHOME for sale. Bedroom on the first floor has tile flooring with access via sliding doors to a patio that is fenced for privacy. 2nd bedroom which is carpeted is located upstairs. 77k Call Theresa 407-462-8695    3-15-16-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99995 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
13 Wanted 13 Wanted
ACROSS
1 Computer whose
27-inch version
has a Retina 5K
display
5 Down in the mouth
9 Rum-soaked
cakes
14 Part of rock’s
CSNY
15 Midterm, e.g.16 Eel, to a sushi
chef
17 *Seriously
indoctrinate
19 13-Down actress
Normand
20 Miracle-__21 *Improvised rap23 Medical
screening system
26 Tell (on)27 Fiver
28 *Risqué
31 Hill-building
stinger
33 LAX summer
setting
34 Director Kazan36 “Blue Bloods”
actor Will
37 *Weight-training
exercise
40 Nurse at a bar43 1956 Mideast
crisis site
44 Mensa concerns47 Hometown of the
Ivy League’s BigRed
49 *Markdown52 Chinese menu
general
53 Nev. neighbor55 Binges56 *Brand created in
Toronto in 1904
60 Chow line?61 More than
chubby
62 Permanent place,
and a hint to theends of theanswers tostarred clues
66 “__ Black”67 River to the
English Channel
68 “Don’t look at
me”
69 Brown ermine70 Hard to box in,
ironically
71 52 Pickup needDOWN
1 Having five
sharps,
musically
2 Scratch, say
3 At no cost
4 President before
Sarkozy
5 Digression lead-
in, in texts
6 Table extension
7 Cold War initials8 Early anesthetic9 Foul tip?
10 Med. school
subject
11 Newborn’s
natural insulator
12 Botox target
13 Films that usually
had live music
18 Scrubbed, at
NASA
22 Word with bud or
flap
23 Bikini part24 Country mail svc.25 Utility abbr.29 Chihuahua
cheers
30 Tear to pieces
32 ISP option
35 Service pro37 Feathery
neckwear38 Contentious
border
happening
39 Israeli guns
40 “Maude,” “Phyllis”
and “Rhoda”
41 “You’re on!”42 Dir. assistance
info
44 Frozen floater
45 “¿__ pasa?”46 Beale and
Bourbon: Abbr.48 Canine care
gp.?
50 Tax time VIPs51 Thing to run54 For this purpose
57 Pacific Rim
continent
58 Avis modifier
59 Hip-hop’s __
Yang Twins
63 King of Spain64 Non-Rx65 Neat ending?
By Bruce Haight©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/09/1603/09/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, March 9, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12 Autos
1. MEASUREMENTS: How fast do 
you have to travel to break the sound 
barrier?
2. FOOD & DRINK: What food is 
also known as a groundnut?
3. MOVIES: What film ended with 
the words “the horror ... the horror”?
4. QUOTATIONS: What 20th-cen-
tury actor once said, “Courage is being 
scared to death but saddling up any-way”? 
5. MEDICAL: What is the medical 
symptom called dyspnea?
6. SCIENCE: What is the study of 
blood called?
7. GEOGRAPHY: What is the pre-
dominant language of Australia?
8. TELEVISION: Who was Sonny 
Crockett’s partner in “Miami Vice”?
9. U.S. STATES: How many U.S. 
states border Mexico?
10. LANGUAGE: What is the lon-
gest English word composed only of vowels?
Answers
1. About 770 mph2. Peanut3. “Apocalyse Now”4. John Wayne5. Shortness of breath6. Hematology7. English8. Ricardo “Rico” Tubbs
9. Four: California, Arizona, New 
Mexico and Texas
10. Euouae, a musical cadence
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
March 7, 2016 King Features Weekly Service13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Seeking responsible and engaging individual 
to supervise and work with children grades 1st through 8th in our After School Program. M-F, 2:25-6:00 PM. Must be 18 years or older. Start immediately. Please submit resume and application to mmschool@millhopper.com    3-14-16-10-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – August. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com    3-11-16-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shits available, 1-9 p.m., Mon - Fri, Weekend hours vary. 15-20 hrs per week. Fax resume & availability to 373-2230    3-11-16-5-14
Mature responsible adult with education, mu-sic, or art orientation for day learning com-panion for teen. Own car and references. Email jdcschool@yahoo.com    3-11-16-5-14DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-23-16-20-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDSun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics,
Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Cleaning, Drivers.
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs!
3-18-16-10-14
M & C Army Surplus is hiring. 25 + hours per week. Firearm + Retail Exp. Required. Apply in Person to 626 NW 13th St    3-7-16-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Horsﬁ  eld and the UF men's golf 
team are tied for third place entering the ﬁ  nal round of the Southern Highlands Collegiate.Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida divers clinch spots at NCAA meet
Florida's Kahlia Warner and Sam Smith each clinched a spot at the NCAA 
Championships during the ﬁ  rst two days of the NCAA Diving Zones, held Monday and Tuesday. Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.SCHWARZ DROVE HOME 
THE DECIDING RUN IN 
THE BOTTOM OF THE 
EIGHTH INNING. 
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
JJ Schwarz had already struck 
out and grounded out twice in his 
three at-bats prior to the eighth in-ning. 
With Florida and North Florida 
tied at 2-2 with runners on ﬁ  rst and third in the eighth, the sophomore catcher chopped another grounder.
This time, though, it snuck past 
the shortstop for a single.
Schwarz’s run-scoring single 
gave Florida the 3-2 lead and would ultimately be the deciding factor, as the No. 1 Gators (13-1) defeated the Ospreys 6-2 at Harmon Stadium in Jacksonville on Tuesday night.
With the win, UF has won its last 
seven games.
North Florida (6-7) set the tone 
early in the ﬁ  rst inning.
After Dane Dunning walked UNF 
leadoff batter Kyle Brooks, Corbin Olmstead worked the count even to 2-2. Then, on a hanging breaking ball, Olmstead launched a two-run home run to left to put the Ospreys 
ahead 2-0.
Meanwhile, Florida didn’t record its ﬁ  rst hit until the fourth inning.
Sophomore Dalton Guthrie led 
off with a double that rocketed past the third baseman. Then junior Buddy Reed laid down a bunt single 
to put runners on the corners for UF.
Following a Schwarz strikeout, 
junior Peter Alonso laced an RBI 
single to right ﬁ  eld to plate Guth-
rie and cut UNF’s lead in half. But Florida’s hopes for more runs were 
put to rest when Jeremy Vasquez 
grounded into an inning-ending 
double play.
In the ﬁ  fth inning, the Gators 
evened the score with more funda-
mental play.
Sophomore Mike Rivera led off 
with a pop up that fell down the 
right-ﬁ  eld line for a double.
Following a Deacon Liput walk 
and a Ryan Larson sacriﬁ  ce bunt that moved the runners over, fresh-
man Jonathan India tied the game 
at 2-2 with a sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  y to center 
to score Rivera.
In the eighth, Florida strung to-
gether ﬁ  ve hits, including Schwarz’s 
single, to crank out four runs in the 
inning.
Guthrie roped a one-out double, 
which was followed by a Reed single. After Schwarz’s hit, Alonso 
crushed an RBI double over the left 
ﬁ  elder’s head to boost Florida’s lead 
to 4-2.
Rivera followed an intentional Schwarz, late rally propel Gators past UNF in Jacksonville
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
JJ Schwarz follows through on a swing during Florida's 4-2 win against Florida Gulf Coast on Feb. 19 at McKethan Stadium.
TORRES TELLS IT
Jim McElwain’s second 
Spring season with the Florida football team is 
starting off with more 
questions than answers. 
The Gators and McElwain 
are in a precarious situation 
following the announcement 
that both Treon Harris and An-tonio Callaway are suspended with no timetable given for either of their returns. 
So, on that note, here are ﬁ  ve questions 
heading into Spring practice. 
Who the hell is going to catch 
passes? 
With Callaway away from the team, 
there is no wide receiver currently on the roster who can duplicate the production he 
had in his freshman season. 
And with Brandon Powell still dealing 
with offseason foot surgery and not expect-
ed to be available for spring practices, the 
wide receiver position is thin. 
Not including tight ends, Florida’s lead-ing returning receiver for the 
spring is C.J. Worton, who had 69 receiving yards last year, 
with 46 yards coming on one 
pass during the Southeastern Conference title game against Alabama. 
Ahmad Fulwood and Alvin 
Bailey have had spotty contri-butions, but neither has had 
expanded roles in their careers.
“We need Ahmad to step up,” McElwain 
said. 
“... You look at a guy like Bailey that 
needs to take some leadership role there and say it’s time to go.”
JUCO transfer Dre Massey and freshmen 
Tyrie Cleveland, Freddie Swain and Josh Hammond are expected to contribute. 
Who starts at quarterback? 
The other main storyline with Harris 
suspended is the issue of who starts at quarterback. 
Florida brought in Purdue transfer Aus-Five questions heading into spring
BOTH PLAYERS WERE 
NAMED TO ONE OF THE 
ALL-CONFERENCE TEAMS. 
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Two Florida basketball players took 
home honors from the Southeastern Con-ference on Tuesday.
Forward Dorian Finney-Smith was 
named to the All-SEC Second Team and guard KeVaughn Allen was named to the All-SEC Freshman Team.
The award marked Finney-Smith’s 
second consecutive year as a member of the conference’s second team, while Al-len’s award gave Florida its eighth All-SEC freshman player in the last nine years.
Finney-Smith, a 6-foot-8 redshirt se-
nior, was Florida’s veteran presence and leading scorer and rebounder this season. He averaged 15.0 points and 8.2 rebounds 
per game while leading the Gators in three-pointers made (62).
Meanwhile, Allen was UF’s most elec-
tric offensive weapon both before and during conference play. The freshman 
averaged 11.5 points per game, including a season-high 32-points against Florida State on Dec. 29, making him the ﬁ  rst 
Florida player to score at least 30 points in a game since Michael Frazier II had 37 against South Carolina on March 4, 
2014.
Allen ﬁ  nished third 
on the team in made 
ﬁ  eld goals (114) while 
shooting 40.3 percent from the ﬁ  eld.
Allen and Finney-Smith will lead No. 8 
seed Florida when it begins the SEC Tour-
nament on Thursday. UF will face No. 9 seed Arkansas at 1 p.m. in Nashville.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgMen's basketball players Finney-
Smith, Allen honored by SEC
Finney-Smith
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIIISEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN , PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016
sidelined for Spring ball, McElwain has 
limited experience to work with. 
UF’s top four remaining receivers from 
last year — Chris Thompson, Alvin Bai-ley, Ahmad Fulwood and C.J. Worton — combined for 18 catches, 227 yards and two touchdowns (both by Worton).
UF will also look to junior college 
transfer Dre Massey and early enrollees Josh Hammond and Freddie Swain to help alleviate the lost production at the receiv-er position during practice.
“We need some other guys at the wide 
receiver spot,” McElwain said.
Harris started nine games last season, 
including the final eight after quarterback Will Grier was handed a 12-month sus-
pension for violating the NCAA’s perfor-
mance-enhancing drug policy.In those final eight games, the Gators 
went 4-4 with Harris completing a meager 48.1 percent of his passes for 1,407 yards (175.9 yards/game) with seven touch-downs to six interceptions as the offense 
fell into a tailspin.
McElwain also did not confirm reports 
about Harris moving to wide receiver if he 
were to be reinstated to the team.
“We’ll see,” McElwain said. “We’ll talk 
about it when it happens.”
This is Harris’ third suspension since 
enrolling at UF in 2014.
The first came in October 2014 after 
being investigated for an alleged sexual assault following the Gators’ 10-9 come-from-behind road win against Tennessee. The complaint was later withdrawn and he was fully reinstated to the school and 
the football team afterward.
Harris then served a one-game suspen-
sion in September, sitting out Florida’s 28-27 win against Tennessee after violat-ing UAA policy.
With Harris out indefinitely and Grier 
in the process of transferring, UF’s quar-
terback battle will be between redshirt 
sophomore Luke Del Rio, Purdue transfer 
Austin Appleby and true freshmen Feleipe Franks and Kyle Trask.
McElwain said Del Rio, an Oregon 
State transfer who originally walked on 
at Alabama, has an early edge against the 
rest of the field because he’s been with the team prior to this semester, but the competition is open.
“I’m excited to see routes on air,” 
McElwain said. “Obviously we haven’t been able to do that. You can have a ball out there. You just watch them condi-tion.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 1This is Harris’ third suspension since arriving at UFFOOTBALL NOTEBOOK
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
As Jim McElwain looks around at his 
coaching staff when Spring practice starts 
today, he’ll notice very little difference.
Outside of Torrian Gray, who McElwain 
hired to be Florida’s newest defensive backs coach on Feb. 4 in favor of Kirk Cal-
lahan, last season’s coaching staff remains completely intact.
And considering defensive coordinator 
Geoff Collins and linebackers coach Randy 
Shannon were considered for coaching po-
sitions away from Gainesville, McElwain is pleased to have the full staff on board for 
his second season.
“We had a lot of guys come after some 
of our guys,” McElwain said Tuesday. “I’m really excited that they chose to stay, be-
cause that means they feel good about the direction we’re headed.”
McElwain said having continuity among 
a coaching staff from year to year is critical for success.
“Teams that have sustainable success 
don’t always have a lot of turnover,” he 
said. “They have some, but not like major 
turnover. I’m excited they’re back, I know that.”
Injured starters:  In addition to the 
suspensions of Treon Harris and Antonio 
Callaway, two of Florida’s starters on of-
fense last season will also be off the prac-tice field this spring.
McElwain said wide receiver Brandon 
Powell (foot) and offensive lineman Mar-tez Ivey (shoulder) will be out for practice 
as they recover from post-season surgeries.
Linebacker Alex Anzalone, who missed 
the bulk of last season with a shoulder in-jury, will only participate in non-contact 
drills during practice.
Defensive back Quincy Wilson and de-
fensive lineman Joey Ivie will also be lim-ited following sports hernia surgery.
Harbaugh in Florida? OK with 
Mac:  The last time McElwain saw Jim 
Harbaugh in Florida, Harbaugh’s Michigan Wolverines left the Citrus Bowl in Orlando with a 41-7 victory over the Gators.
Harbaugh returned to the Sunshine 
State last week, hosting practices at Bra-denton’s IMG Academy, a private athletic 
training institute.
While Harbaugh’s tactics have received 
backlash from Southeastern Conference coaches and SEC commissioner Greg San-
key, McElwain wholeheartedly endorsed Harbaugh’s actions.
“I kind of look it as more power to him. 
It’s totally legal,” McElwain said. “He’s not doing anything that’s illegal. He’s pressing 
the envelopes, he’s putting their name in 
the paper every day. … I mean I’d come to Florida, too. There’s great players here, 
right? There’s a reason every school in the 
country comes here and recruits.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.orgMcElwain 
embracing continuity among staff
LEFT:
Florida quarterback Treon Harris (3) 
passes during UF’s 41-7 loss to Michigan in the Citrus Bowl on Jan. 1 in Orlando.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
BELOW:
UF’s Antonio Callaway (81) returns a punt 85 yards for a touchdown 
during Florida’s 29-15 loss to Alabama 
in the Southeastern Conference Championship Game on Dec. 5, 2015, in the Georgia Dome in Atlanta.
Alligator File Photo
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
walk to Vasquez with a two-run single to right 
field to plate the Gators’ final two runs.
Both Alonso and Rivera finished 2-for-4 
with two RBIs and a run scored.
On the mound, Dunning settled in nicely 
after the first inning.
The junior from Fleming Island, Florida, 
struck out a career-high 10 batters through six innings, allowing two runs. UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said Dunning impressed him.
“Dane pitched really well tonight,” he said. 
“He had all three pitches working for him.”
Junior Kirby Snead relieved Dunning ef-
ficiently, needing just 18 pitches to shut the Ospreys down for the final three innings.
Between the sacrifice plays, the pitching 
and late rally in the eighth inning, O’Sullivan said the game was “one of the more complete games that we’ve played.”
The two teams will meet again tonight at 7, 
this time at McKethan Stadium in Gainesville. Freshman Jackson Kowar is scheduled to start on the mound for Florida.
A radio broadcast contributed to this 
report.
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 13Dunning struck 
out a career-high 10 batterstin Appleby during the offseason to join 
redshirt sophomore Luke Del Rio, while freshmen quarterbacks Feleipe Franks and 
Kyle Trask have been on campus since 
January. 
Franks was a highly-touted recruit at 
Wakulla High School, but he might be a 
candidate to redshirt so he can get some 
more seasoning. 
McElwain and offensive coordinator 
Doug Nussmeier might do the same with Trask, who wasn’t as highly recruited. 
McElwain said Del Rio has a “leg up” on 
the competition simply because he’s been around the team longer. 
Can Eddy Pineiro kick in 
games?
If you haven’t seen the videos Eddy Pi-
neiro puts up on social media of him kick-ing, do yourself a favor and check them 
out. 
There’s no question Pineiro will be the 
starting kicker once the season begins, 
and he’s an instant upgrade at the posi-
tion. 
He has a lot of potential to go along 
with his strong leg, and McElwain said on 
a couple of occasions he’s never recruited a kicker as hard as he did for Pineiro. 
But, he’s never kicked in a college 
game before. 
And with kicking in games comes pres-
sure that cannot be duplicated on the 
practice field. We’ll see if Odell Kickem 
can live up to the hype. Who replaces Jon Bullard’s 
production?
Jon Bullard was a man amongst boys last 
season. Bullard was third in the SEC with 17.5 tackles for loss and was tied with Alex 
McCalister for the team lead with 6.5 sacks. 
He was also named to the All-SEC First Team, so replacing his production won’t be easy.
If there were one player with the potential 
to replace Bullard, it’s sophomore defensive end CeCe Jefferson. 
Jefferson had 3.5 sacks last season and 
was named to the All-SEC Freshman Team. 
He also had 5.5 tackles for loss in the last 
four games of the season, which was one more than Bullard. 
How does UF deal with lack of 
depth in secondary?
Even with Vernon Hargreaves III and Ke-
anu Neal foregoing their senior seasons and declaring for the NFL Draft, the Gators still 
have enough talent in the secondary to be 
one of the best in the nation.
However, after Jalen Tabor, Quincy Wil-
son and Marcus Maye, there are not a lot 
of proven commodities. Nick Washington, 
Duke Dawson and Marcell Harris have some playing time under their belt, but Florida can ill-afford to have any of those three get in-jured.
New defensive backs coach Torrian Gray 
will have his hands full trying to get the most out of freshmen Chauncey Gardner and McAr-thur Burnett, while hoping  no one gets hurt. 
Luis Torres is the alligatorSports.org edi-
tor. You can contact him at ltorres@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @LFTorresIII.COLUMN,  from pg 13
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
At the Southeastern Confer-
ence Indoor Championships on Feb. 27, junior Andres Arroyo 
shattered the record books in the 
800-meter dash, setting a person-al record and breaking Mark Ev-erett’s 26-year-old Florida school 
record.
But according to him, there 
will be more record-breaking per-
formances to come. 
“I expect to come out of there 
with a great time, and maybe come out of there as a winner,” Arroyo said of representing his team in the 800-meter dash in the 
NCAA Indoor competition this 
weekend. “I only expect great things coming out of NCAAs.”
Arroyo added that he thinks 
this year’s team is special as a 
whole. 
“(It's) the caliber that we 
have, so many elite athletes that 
are ranked around the world, and 
team chemistry,” Arroyo said. “I 
like how when we come to track meets we come together, as a whole squad.”
Arroyo’s teammate, senior Na-
jee Glass, the 2015 USTFCCCA South Region Indoor Athlete of the Year, also has the opportunity to make a splash this weekend.
In addition to competing in the 
400-meter dash, Glass is part of Florida’s 4x400 relay team made 
up of senior Arman Hall, redshirt 
junior Eric Futch and freshman Kunle Fasasi. 
That relay team set the nation-
leading time of 3:40.02 at the SEC Indoor Championships and gave Florida its first 4x400 title since 2010. “This weekend I expect for 
the team to obviously win the 
national championship. I plan on 
doing better than I have been this past indoor season,” Glass said. “I mean I had some injuries, but 
now I’m fine. I’m just ready to get 
back to Najee’s old ways.”
Head coach Mike Holloway 
said he thinks Glass and his fel-low relay team members can do 
even better than they did at SECs. 
“That is a talented group of 
guys,” Holloway said. “I don’t 
think there is anyone in America, 
probably anyone in the world, 
that is surprised that they did that. If you talked to them they thought they should have done that. They hope to run a little faster than the 
original (at NCAAs).”
With this being the last indoor 
meet for seniors Kyra Jefferson, 
Claudia Francis, Shayla Sand-
ers, Arman Hall, Glass and Robin 
Reynolds, they are going to try and make the most of the oppor-tunity.
“I plan to go out with a good 
bang, not a bad bang, but a good bang,” Glass said.
 “I plan on doing a lot of good 
things and having a lot of acco-
lades … I want to win the big 
titles. SECs, Outdoors, and Indoor Championships.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgArroyo, Glass looking to impact team at NCAA Indoors
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Najee Glass runs during the 2015 Florida Relays at James G. Pressly Stadium.
Alligator File Photo 
Jim McElwain looks on during Florida's 
29-15 loss to Alabama in the 2015 SEC Championship Game. The competition begins on Friday16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2016
By Brian Lee
Sports Writer
 
In the top of the fourth inning on 
Saturday against South Alabama, 
Amanda Lorenz stepped into the bat-ter’s box facing a full count. 
The freshman belted the 3-2 pitch 
to center ﬁ  eld, notching the ﬁ  rst home run of her young career. 
“In practice, I feel like I hit them 
all the time,” she said. “In games …  it just hasn’t happened. 
“The ﬁ  rst one’s out of the way 
now.” 
With just two games left before 
Southeastern Conference play begins — a home doubleheader this after-noon against South Dakota starting at 4  — No. 1 Florida (22-0) is looking to add to what has already been one of the best starts in program history. This year’s team now only trails the 2011 and 2015 Gators, which started the season with 24 and 28 consecu-
tive victories, respectively. 
Lorenz has been a big reason why. 
The freshman is among a trio of 
underclassmen powering the Gators, 
along with sophomores Janell Whea-ton and Kayli Kvistad. 
Of players with at least 40 at-bats, 
Lorenz leads the team in batting av-erage (.483) while Wheaton is second (.444) and Kvistad is third (.432). 
Lorenz also ranks ﬁ  rst in hits (28) 
while Wheaton tops the squad in home runs (5) and RBIs (26). 
Despite an average output of 6.95 
runs per game, which ranks 17th in the nation, the Gators are second in 
on-base percentage (.497). 
The emergence of these three 
young players has been welcomed 
for Florida, whose top hitter for the last three seasons — senior Kelsey Stewart — got off to a slow start. 
But Stewart, the NCAA’s ac-
tive leader in career hits with 315, has broken free of her early-season struggles. 
After not recording a hit until the 
fourth game of the season and bat-ting just .148 through the ﬁ  rst 10 games, her swing is back to normal. Her batting average has jumped to .333 and she sits second on the team with 23 runs scored. 
“The Kelsey Stewart of her early 
years, is that the outﬁ  eld played real-ly shallow … to take away her speed game,” coach Tim Walton said, “Now everybody plays her deeper.
“She was hitting the ball ﬁ  ne, she 
just happened to be hitting it right where everybody was playing.”
Florida’s pitching staff has also 
been overpowering. 
Delanie Gourley, Aleshia Ocasio 
and Kelly Barnhill have each struck out at least 59 batters. To put that into perspective, UF’s hitters have only struck out a combined 57 times. 
As the pre-conference schedule 
concludes and SEC play begins, Flor-ida will look to continue its success. 
“Our weaknesses are limited,” 
Walton said. “For us overall, just really try to do a good job of work-ing on what we do and get better on what we do.” 
@brianlee_17
blee@alligator.org Lorenz powering Florida softball as SEC play approaches  
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Amanda Lorenz swings at a pitch during Florida’s 6-0 win in game 
one of a doubleheader against Jacksonville on Feb. 17. 
She leads the Gators in hits