We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 19 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016
UF volleyball plays at home this 
weekend
Rhamat Alhassan leads the Gators in 
blocks, pg. 14
SG platform generation ends
Impact Party received hundreds of suggestions, pg. 5
Grand Jury: Police justiﬁ  ed in March shooting
Robert Dentmond was 16 when police shot him, pg. 5Michelle Kwan speaks with students
She discussed her support for Hillary Clinton, pg. 3
CAMPUS
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Passion Pit, Waka Flocka Flame 
and DJ Whoo Kid, Timeﬂ  ies and 
Maddie & Tae will perform at Gator Growl 2016, organizers announced 
Thursday.
This is the ﬁ  rst time four artists 
will perform at the event. The in-
crease in the number of perform-ers, up from three artists in 2015, was to encourage more of a music-festival type of atmosphere, said Tristan Ahlquist, the associate pro-ducer of communications for Gator Growl.
The event, hosted by Student 
Government Productions and Flor-ida Blue Key, will take place on 
Flavet Field on Oct. 14 at 6 p.m. 
Student tickets are $15, and public tickets are $25. Pit pass tickets, for 
access to the front of the stages,  
are double the price of a general 
admission ticket.This year, the event will have 
two stages, but only one performer 
at a time, Ahlquist said. The event 
was able to include a fourth art-
ist because of an 
increase in fund-
ing from money 
raised from last 
year’s event, he said.
Deciding on 
the perform-ers came down to the artists’ schedules, Ahlquist said, adding that the committee looked for artists of different genres 
so students would be able to enjoy 
different types of music all in one 
place.
“We thought a lot about the in-
terest of our students,” he said. 
UF linguistics senior Wills Blake 
decided to buy tickets when he saw Passion Pit and Waka Flocka were 
coming, despite not knowing the  Passion Pit, Waka Flocka Flame, more to perform at Gator Growl
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
After more than a year as dean, Lau-
ra Ann Rosenbury has changed the face 
of the UF Levin College of Law. 
Since she began, the law school has 
enrolled not only its most diverse in-
coming class — with 35.9 percent of in-
coming students identifying as ethnical-ly diverse — but also the most selective; their average LSAT law school aptitude test score was three points higher than the previous year’s.
However, not all of her decisions 
have sat well with students and faculty.
After an essay Rosenbury authored 
in Spring was published, students of the law school took to social media to ex-press their discontent with her. In the essay, she wrote about a former student and a UF law professor who made sexist comments by referring to her as “young and vivacious” during a banquet last Fall. 
Students on social media argued the dean should have refrained from iden-
tifying the student, saying it was unfair 
for her to identify the two men in a neg-
ative light. 
“Attacking a student as a Dean of 
one of the graduate programs is a really bad precedent,” one commenter posted. 
Rosenbury, 46, said she thought that 
by not including names, she was keep-
ing it conﬁ  dential. 
“I thought by declining to use their 
names, I was doing enough to protect 
their identity,” she said in a phone in-terview. “In hindsight, I would have worked harder to protect the identity” of the student and faculty member, she 
said.
She said she doesn’t believe the men 
meant anything by the comment, but it 
was something she felt needed to be ad-dressed. 
“I believe that we ﬁ  rst need to iden-
tify problems before we begin to solve them, and one way to begin to identify the problem is to talk about them and 
then to discuss,” she said. 
Jeffrey L. Harrison, a UF law pro-
fessor, said although he doesn’t agree  A look into Levin: Students, faculty express administrative concernsLOCAL
IN 30 DAYS, SHE WILL 
BRING SUPPLIES TO 20 
REFUGEE CAMPS. 
By Rebekah Dain
Alligator Contributing Writer
The night before she was set to 
leave, Cindy Nelly’s living room was 
full of supplies. 
A sleeping bag. A suitcase full of 
prenatal vitamins. An obstetrical kit.
After watching the civil war in 
Syria unfold over the past six years — and displace millions — the UF alumna felt it was time.
At 6 a.m. Wednesday, Nelly put 
her life in Gainesville on hold as she boarded an airplane bound for Turkey. Upon landing on the East-ern coast of the country, she began a monthlong medical trip, tending to women and children at more than 20 refugee camps.
“It really just calls to me,” she 
said. “It feels like I have to go.”
•   •   •
The trip to Turkey had been 
weeks in the making.
On Aug. 5, the 46-year-old mid-
wife and advanced nurse practitio-ner set up a GoFundMe page to fun-nel donations.
About a month later, the page has 
raised more than $8,100, which Nel-ly will use to buy medical supplies, like antibiotics, sutures and bandag-es, in Turkey.
Within the country’s borders, the 
money translates to nearly 24,000 Turkish liras.
Nelly said the need for health care UF alumna heads to Turkey 
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Cindy Nelly, 46, packs on Tuesday evening before leaving to Turkey on Wednesday morning to give medical aid to women and children at several refugee camps. Since Aug. 5, the UF alumna has raised more than $8,100 to purchase medical supplies in the country, where she will stay for a month.
SEE GATOR GROWL,  PAGE 4
SEE REFUGEE,  PAGE 4
SEE LAW DEAN,  PAGE 4Waka Flocka Flame
 Passion Pit
Rosenbury
Four artists will perform
Some unhappy with dean’s decisions Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  91° LOW  72°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Flu shot kickoff and tank top 
giveaway today
Get the shot, not the flu. Drop by the UF Student Health Care Center, located in the infirmary 
building at 280 Fletcher Drive, 
today between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. for a no-cost flu shot and free “Chomp the Flu” tank top when you present your Gator 1 Card and health insurance card. Please note: Tank tops will be available to the first 1,500 UF students vaccinated at today’s 
event only. For more informa-
tion, visit shcc.ufl.edu/flu.
CORE grand opening
The Center for Outdoor Recreation and Education will have its grand opening ceremo-ny today from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. CORE is UF RecSports’ newest 
resource dedicated to enhancing 
and encouraging lifelong healthy lifestyles and well-being in the UF community through experi-ences with nature, exploration and adventure. Join CORE for an afternoon celebrating the new building with free food, demonstrations, giveaways, 
walking tours and more. The 
CORE building is located at 1441 Bledsoe Drive, next to Southwest Recreation Center. For more in-formation visit recsports.ufl.edu .
Gators Volleyball vs. Jacksonville 
UniversityJoin the Gators tonight for the 
2016 volleyball home open-
er weekend at the Lemerand Athletic Center, presented by Active Ankle. The match against Jacksonville University will be-gin at 7:30 p.m. Fans will receive free 2016 Florida volleyball post-ers. All students can check in on the Rowdy Reptile Mobile App 
and earn points toward great 
prizes. Miniature volleyballs will be tossed into the crowd during player introductions, and cheer-leaders will toss T-shirts into the stands after each Gator ace. Ticket information can be found at floridagators.com/tickets.
Gainesville Record Fair
The Gainesville Record Fair will take place this Sunday at the Wooly, located at 20 N. Main St., from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Admission is free. Call 352-371-2121 for more information.
Rutgers’ SCREAM Theater
The Rutger’s Students Challenging Realities and Educating Against Myths Theater performance will take place Sunday from 2 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. Six actors — the victim, the of-fender, the inactive bystander, the facilitator and their friends, who each respond differently — portray a typical college scenario, then stay in character and allow 
audience members to ask the 
characters questions. Later they provide background into the mo-tivation behind their roles. Check out the video at youtube.com/watch?v=ba2dVLQZJ_g, or con-tact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@ufsa.ufl.edu or 352-273-4452 for more information.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, David Hoffman, Amanda     
  Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Michael Smith  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 19
Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Two-time Olympian Michelle 
Kwan told UF students Thursday why 
she believes Hillary Clinton is the best candidate for minorities. 
The former ﬁ  gure skater, who 
competed in the Olympics in 1998 and 2002, addressed about 50 students in the Reitz Union as part of a national collegiate tour. She talked with stu-dents about why she supports Clinton and how she was drawn to politics af-ter retiring from ﬁ  gure skating. 
“I wanted to give back,” Kwan 
said. “I wanted to make a difference, 
and I wanted to really build on what 
was always the highest honor for me, and that’s been representing this amazing country.”
After talking to students, Kwan 
visited a Newberry Road campaign ofﬁ  ce to participate in a phone bank and meet with volunteers. 
Kwan said she joined Clinton’s 
campaign about a week before the presidential candidate ofﬁ  cially an-nounced her candidacy. Kwan went back to school to earn her bachelor’s and master’s degrees after her Olym-pic career, and she began working in 
the State Department before joining 
Clinton’s campaign. 
Working on the campaign let 
Kwan get to know Clinton personally, she said. 
“(I) see the person that she is, 
the ﬁ  ghter that she is and how she gets things done,” Kwan said. “In my mind it’s a very clear choice in these 
elections, and there’s just so much at 
stake, and you know that Hillary has the experience and the background and the ability to get things done.” 
Kwan urged students to get in-
volved with Clinton’s campaign and register to vote. 
“(Clinton) has been ﬁ  ghting for 
us, so we have to ﬁ  ght for her,” Kwan 
said. “People fought to make sure 
you have a voice in these elections, so use it.”
Although Kwan has gone through 
a major career shift, she said work-ing for the campaign is still similar to ﬁ  gure skating. 
“You need the work ethic,” she said. “You need the determination, the perseverance, the team work.”
Santiago Marquez, a 19-year-old 
UF sustainability studies and wom-en’s studies sophomore, said he liked hearing Kwan speak about the Asian American Paciﬁ  c Islander community and how important it was for mem-bers of that community to vote. 
“It shows it’s deﬁ  nitely great to 
have a diverse range of presenters and people campaigning for Hillary,” 
said Marquez, who is the vice presi-
dent of Gators 4 Hillary. “Michelle Kwan is a champion, and it was re-ally great to have the opportunity to see her.” 
Audrey Guerra, a UF political sci-
ence senior and former ﬁ  gure skater, said she remembered watching Kwan compete in the Olympics and playing 
Kwan’s video game, “Michelle Kwan 
Figure Skating.” 
“She’s like one of my childhood 
heros,” the 21-year-old said. “It was really interesting to hear a little bit of her backstory.” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Michelle Kwan smiles as she talks to one of her fans. Kwan was on UF’s 
campus to kick off the Hillary Clinton campaign event on Thursday.
 Olympian Michelle Kwan urges students to vote, support Clinton
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
The man who originally ﬁ  led a 
complaint against Rep. Keith Perry 
ﬁ  led to withdraw it Thursday.
The charges stemmed from a dis-
pute Saturday between Perry and 
the man over one of Perry’s political signs placed in the 2200 block of W. 
University Ave. In video footage of the incident, Perry can be seen slap-
ping the man on the left side of his 
neck.
At a press conference Thursday, 
Perry apologized and said he only hit the man after being pushed and spat on. The man also screamed obsceni-ties at Perry’s wife, he said. 
“We all, as fathers and husbands, 
have a certain defense mechanism 
that comes in and a protective mech-
anism that comes in,” Perry said.
The complaint withdrawal will be 
sent to the state attorney, Gainesville Police spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. The case has been transferred to the Seventh Judicial Court due to Perry’s familiarity with Rod Smith, a state attorney who for-
merly represented District 8.
“It will be up to the state attorney 
to determine how the case proceeds 
at this point,” Tobias said. 
GPD ﬁ  led a sworn complaint 
Wednesday with the state attorney, recommending simple battery and 
trespassing charges.
Rob Lash, Perry’s attorney, called 
the case unorthodox.
“We haven’t had any contact 
from GPD,” he said. “We haven’t 
had any contact from the state’s at-torney’s ofﬁ  ce.”  Complaint in case against Rep. Keith Perry to be withdrawn4   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016
other two performers. 
“I’m very open-minded when 
it comes to music, so I’m looking 
forward to how they sound,” the 21-year-old said.But UF business administra-
tion junior Jake Kilgore decided to break his three-year streak of attending Gator Growl when he heard the lineup. The variety will meet the needs of more students, he said, but it isn’t really his pre-ferred music.“If the lineup was exceptional, 
I’d definitely find a way to get tick-ets,” the 20-year-old said. “But it’s not, so I’m not going to put much effort into getting tickets.” 
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org
GATOR GROWL,  from pg. 1This is the first year four artists will perform at the pep rally
with using titles that made it easy 
to identify the student and profes-sor, he said he believes Rosenbury meant no harm. 
“She’s just not that kind of per-
son,” he said. “She’s not vindic-tive.” 
Harrison said Rosenbury ad-
dressing the comment is proof that women in the legal system still face obstacles. He agrees with her say-ing that the word vivacious carries negative gender connotations. 
“I don’t think anybody would 
call a man vivacious, because I’ve never heard of it,” he said.
Changes that Rosenbury has im-
plemented at the law school, such as balancing classroom sizes and recruiting top students, have been for the better, he said. 
But Jim Theriac, a UF law 
alumnus, said members of the law school have told him they’re afraid 
of speaking out against the dean.
“When I have four to five people 
telling me it’s a toxic atmosphere, 
I’m concerned,” Theriac said. 
Michelle Jacobs, a UF law pro-
fessor, said the incident was “the straw that broke the camel’s back.”
Jacobs said she’s noticed some 
of the law school’s community that includes students, faculty and staff feel misrepresented regarding deci-
sions made by the administration. 
“We do have a segment of the 
community — I won’t comment on 
how big it is — that do feel disre-spected and not listened to,” she said. 
Incidents like the uproar over 
the dean’s essay are the product of events being magnified because of long-running disagreements, Ja-cobs said.  
“It’s not that change is not 
needed in our college,” she said. “Change is needed for any institu-tion to grow, but the process by which the change takes place, I think, is the thing that’s driving the feeling of toxicity.” 
Paul McBride, a third-year UF 
law student, said the courses dur-ing Summer semesters have been reduced, and a lack of communi-cation between students and the administration is leaving him and other students unhappy with the direction of the college. 
The 25-year-old said in years 
past, deans of the college would 
hold a few town hall meetings, dur-
ing which students could express their concerns and ask the dean questions. Since Rosenbury’s term, there’s been only one, he said. 
“We feel like we don’t have the 
ability to voice our concerns any-more,” he said. “We don’t want to feel like we’re at odds with the ad-ministration of our school. It’s an unfortunate situation to be in, be-
cause we’re supposed to be on the 
same team.”
If students had been informed 
of changes before they were imple-mented, like the elective classes be-ing reduced, or requiring student organizations to host guest speak-
ers at times that didn’t conflict with other organization’s events, con-
flict and confusion could have been avoided, he said. 
Rosenbury wrote in an email her 
goal has been to foster a commu-nity of collaboration, engagement and civil disagreement. She’s host-ed six two-hour “office hour” ses-sions with students, as well as eight meetings with student leaders. 
“I welcome feedback at all 
times, including about how to im-prove faculty and student culture,” she said.  
Moving forward, she wrote in 
the email that she wants to use da-ta-driven and strategic approaches to continue increasing the profile of the law school. 
“We are certainly a law school 
on the rise, and I very much look forward to what the future holds,” 
Rosenbury said.
LAW DEAN,  from pg1Faculty, students concerned about being able to voice concernsin Turkey is palpable. 
After the war broke out in Syria 
and refugees fled violence from 
their government and foreign fight-ers, an already overburdened medi-cal system was stretched to its lim-its, she said.
“Turkey hosts more (Syrian) ref-
ugees than any other country in the world right now,” she said. “And they cannot possibly provide ser-
vices to all people who need them.”
Standing outside their home as 
Nelly packed, her husband Peter 
Alcorn said the urge to help is just a part of who Nelly is.
Alcorn seemed calm but ad-
mitted feeling nervous that Nelly would be heading to a country 
recently rocked by a coup attempt 
and a handful of terror attacks.
“I’m a little bit nervous,” he ad-
mitted. “It’s a little unstable over 
there right now.”
But, he said, what makes him 
more nervous is Nelly’s unflinch-ing drive to serve the underserved.
“If she doesn’t feel like she’s be-
ing productive in the camps, then 
she will be the first to sign up to go 
elsewhere,” he said.
As Nelly’s plane landed in Izmir, 
Turkey, after a 13-hour flight, four children thought of their mother.
She has twin sons, 22-year-old 
Abraham and Eziah, a 23-year-old daughter, Hannah, and a 13-year-
old son, Cyrus.
Eziah, a student at Florida Gate-
way College, said Nelly’s efforts 
have inspired him to go on his own one day.
“Like any other kid, I’m ner-
vous for her safety,” he said. “But I know she is doing something very good that other people can’t do.”
•   •   •
This is not the first time Nelly 
has dropped everything to answer a call to service.
After a hurricane ravaged New 
Orleans in 2005 and an earthquake 
struck Haiti in 2010, she left home 
and provided disaster relief.
She has also volunteered at clin-
ics across the world, in countries like Kenya, Gambia, the Democrat-ic Republic of Congo and Colombia.
When friends asked if she was 
scared to go to Turkey, she an-swered sternly.
“It’s really interesting that I get 
a lot more people asking me if I’m scared to go on this mission than have ever asked me about any other international work,” Nelly said. “It’s probably less dangerous than most of the other international 
work that I’ve done.”
The preparation for the trip is 
also different: Turkey already has a 
solid medical infrastructure, Nelly said, which means that instead of bringing materials, she has been asked to bring money and purchase the majority of supplies there.
“The packing isn’t as exciting this time,” Nelly said. “It’s not as much stuff as normal — it’s pretty 
minimal.”
Her personal items are few: 
A box of Clif Bars, some clothing 
and two dark-chocolate bars with sea salt and almonds will hold her 
over.
Nelly hopes the trip will give her 
the opportunity to speak with refu-
gees and later share their stories and hopefully inspire Gainesville to become more active in the face of 
tremendous suffering.
If the public becomes more 
aware of what is happening, then 
“maybe instead of 10 to 20 thou-sand refugees, we can welcome more in,” she said.
“I’d like to connect with people 
so they can feel like we are paying 
attention, that there are those of 
us here that really do care,” Nelly 
said.
When Nelly returns to 
Gainesville, she will begin working 
at UF Health Shands as a midwife. After she returns from overseas, she said she hopes to continue to 
touch lives.
Nicholas Nourieh, a Syrian-born 
UF student, said he was happy — 
and surprised — to see what Nelly had decided to do. 
The 20-year-old UF biology se-
nior, who is also a member of the Arab Students’ Association, said he hopes Nelly’s work will lift some of the burden from the shoulders of 
refugees.
“These kinds of acts help give 
hope,” he said.REFUGEE,  from pg. 1She’s bringing condoms and vitaminsTimeflies
 Maddie & T ae
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Cindy Nelly fills her bags with about 200 condoms, dozens of 
contraceptive pills and pre-natal medications ahead of her monthlong service trip to Turkey. The UF alumna said she felt a calling to help refugees after watching the country implode following a year-long civil war. “It really just calls to me, ” she said. “It feels like I have to go. ”
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Cindy Nelly’s American passport sits atop her table on Tuesday evening while she prepares to leave to Turkey. As a part of other trips, the midwife has visited Kenya, Rwanda and Haiti to provide similar medical services.
Popular songs from each artist: 
• Passion Pit: “T ake a Walk” 
• Waka Flocka Flame: “No Hands”
• Timeflies: “Once in a While” 
• Maddie & T ae: “Girl in a Country 
Song” 
“I’d like to connect with people 
so they can feel like we are 
paying attention.”
Cindy Nelly
UF alumna
“W e feel like we don’t have the 
ability to voice our concerns 
anymore.”
Paul McBride
UF law studentFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Police ofﬁ  cers and deputies were 
justiﬁ  ed in their killing of a 16-year-old 
in March, a grand jury ruled Wednes-day.
The jury issued a no true bill in the 
fatal shooting of Robert Dentmond Jr., of Gainesville, who was killed in front of his apartment building while holding an assault-riﬂ  e-style BB gun, according to a statement issued Thursday by Ala-chua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell.
The jury will reconvene later to fur-
ther discuss the matter, Darnell said.
“Our prayers go out to everyone that 
has been touched by this incident,” she said.
At about 10 p.m. on March 20, Dent-
mond dialed 911 and said he planned on killing himself with an assault riﬂ  e, according to Alligator archives.
When sheriff’s deputies and 
Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cers arrived at 
Majestic Oaks Apartments, located at 5800 SW 20th Ave., they told Dentmo-
nd to drop his weapon.
During a standoff, the then-Gaines-
ville High School sophomore ignored commands and began stepping back toward his building. Nine deputies and ofﬁ  cers then opened ﬁ  re, according to archives.
The shooting sparked outrage at a 
community meeting that the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce and GPD hosted that week at a local church.
Some residents called for reform in both departments in regard to race re-
lations and mental health training, ac-
cording to archives.
In the statement, Darnell said ACSO 
would work to push suicide-prevention awareness at local schools and imple-ment an Emergency Mental Health Dis-patch.
“Addressing mental health issues lo-
cally remains a priority,” Darnell said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org  Grand Jury: Police justiﬁ  ed in March fatal shooting of teenager
Dentmond
By Janine Wolf
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers are recruiting 
about 400 children for a study about youth brain development and health.
The study, called Adolescent 
Brain Cognitive Development, or ABCD, aims to see how child-hood experiences affect social skills, behavior, academic suc-cess and health through ado-lescence and into early adult-hood, said Sarah Reaves, UF’s research site coordinator. More than 10,000 9- and 10-year-olds 
nationally will take part in the research.
The National Institutes of 
Health gave UF a $3.76 mil-
lion grant for its part of the re-search, focusing on children in North Central Florida, she said. 
Florida International Univer-
sity was the only other school in the state chosen to help con-duct the study, she said. The 19 institutions conducting re-search will try to get elemen-tary schoolers representative of national demographics. 
Reaves said UF has the fa-
cilities needed to conduct cog-
nitive and mental tests the chil-
dren will take. “The University of Florida 
was very poised to have those resources and capabilities to run something this ambitious,” she said.
UF professor Sara Jo Nixon 
said the project will be the 
ﬁ  rst long-term study to follow 
young children as they age. She wanted UF to help collect data for Florida because it’s one of the fastest growing states. 
“It’s a landmark study in 
terms of both its depth and breadth,” said Nixon, a co-principal investigator at the UF 
Health site.  
 UF to research youth brain development
Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A cross-county car chase ended 
near Gainesville on Tuesday morn-
ing with four arrests and more than 
$3,000 thrown out a window.
Florida Highway Patrol troop-
ers arrested Mark Anthony Rivera, 24, Antwan Laron Belin, 29, Lovy Lovette House, 31, and Marvie 
Leonugean Alford, 30, after the men 
led deputies on a chase from Jeffer-son County, Florida near Tallahas-
see. Rivera, Belin and House are from 
Tampa, and Alford is from Lutz, 
Florida.
Highway patrol ﬁ  rst started look-
ing for them at about 10 a.m. after deputies said they were chasing the men, who were driving in a silver 
Chevy Malibu, in Jefferson County. 
During the chase, one of the men threw $3,100 out of the car. 
At about 11 a.m., the car reached 
speeds of 120 mph on Interstate 75 near Alachua, Florida, cutting off 
motorists and driving through emer-
gency lanes, according to an arrest 
report. It is unclear who was driving, 
because none of the men were sit-ting in the driver’s seat when troop-ers stopped them. 
Troopers chased after the car un-
til spike strips punctured the car’s tires and ended the chase. Troopers 
found credit card numbers and other 
personal information that did not be-long to anyone in the car, according 
to the report.
Alford and House were arrested on charges of fraud and resisting arrest, among other charges. Belin 
and Rivera were arrested on charges 
of fraud and aiding and abetting, 
among other charges.
All four were taken to the Alach-
ua County Jail where they remain, as 
of press time, in lieu of a $1.1 million 
bond for Rivera, a $400,000 bond for Alford, a $300,000 bond for House 
and a $200,000 bond for Belin. 
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  At speeds of 120 mph, cross-county car chase ends near GNVBy Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
The days of clogged trafﬁ  c along North-
west Eighth Avenue may end this Fall as 
roadwork in the area nears its ﬁ  nal stages.
By the end of September, the $5.75 mil-
lion construction project should be com-
plete, but the road will not be suitable for 
vehicle trafﬁ  c until November, wrote Chip Skinner, the marketing and communications supervisor for Regional Transit System, in an email.
The road will have three lanes, fewer 
than the four-lane setup available before construction, said Bob Woods, a City of Gainesville communications and marketing 
manager.
The city-funded project, which began in 
November 2015, should span from North-
west Sixth Street to Northwest 41st Street and includes plans to resurface the road, widen sidewalks, build bike lanes and im-prove drainage infrastructure, Skinner said.
The ﬁ  rst two phases of construction are 
done, and the ﬁ  nal phase, which spans be-tween Northwest 23rd Street and Northwest 34th Street, should be completed by the end of September, Skinner said.
Throughout the construction, some resi-
dents have taken to the city’s Facebook page to voice disapproval for the lane clo-sures and resulting trafﬁ  c jams on Northwest 
Eighth Avenue.
Martin Gomez, a UF student who lives 
along the avenue, said the project has caused 
trafﬁ  c headaches for motorists.
The 21-year-old mechanical engineering 
senior said he is excited for the road to re-turn to normal.
“It’s really annoying,” he said. Skinner, however, downplayed the criti-
cism.
“We have received minimal complaints 
during the construction work,” he said.  GNV road project almost done 
Alford
 Rivera
Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Cassidy Meyers grabbed a piece of red 
chalk to write “Lib West needs more plugs” on a chalkboard Thursday morning.  
Thursday was the last day Impact Party 
representatives asked students to contribute 
ideas on how to improve UF for the party’s 
upcoming platform. For the past three days from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., party representatives spoke with students on Turlington Plaza and North Lawn. Representatives at each location recorded hundreds of suggestions, said Impact Party President Janae Moodie.
“We’ve had some good discussions,” she 
said. “So far, everything has been going re-
ally smoothly.” 
Impact’s platform should be released ear-
ly next week, although there’s not an ofﬁ  cial 
date, Moodie said. 
Meyers, a UF zoology sophomore, said 
she votes in Student Government elections so her voice can be heard. 
“They make some important decisions,” 
the 19-year-old said. 
Other ideas included lowering student 
fees and decal prices and placing stoplights outside the Reitz Union parking garage. 
Outside of the Reitz, 18-year-old Megan 
Cabana posed for a picture, holding a chalk-board that read “more water fountains.” 
“I get really dehydrated when I’m walk-
ing to class,” the UF communication scienc-es and disorders freshman said. 
Before platform-generating, Cabana said 
she hadn’t talked with SG senators since starting college this semester. 
“I haven’t actually heard of them until 
just now,” she said. “I would want to learn more so I could know what I’m voting for, if I voted.”
@k_newberg
 knewberg.@alligator.org  SG platform generation ends 
Belin
 House
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff
Students take stickers of presidential candidate Donald Trump 
during the Democracy Fair at Santa Fe College on Thursday at noon. About 200 people came to the fair in the ﬁ  rst hour and a half.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORYou’re sitting alone in your car in Archer Road’s typical 
rush-hour trafﬁ  c. As a small commando unit of scooters whiz-
zes by you left and right, you ﬁ  ddle with the radio, looking for something to listen to. As you’re navigating through the various snippets of sound, one station grabs your attention and demands you to listen. It’s just one man’s voice, chant-ing something over and over and over again. You ﬁ  nd this uncomfortable and unsettling. What is it this strange man chants? Well, dear readers, that something is…
Darts & Laurels
“South Park” had its 20th season premiere on Come-
dy Central on Wednesday night. The episode parodies the 
drama that surrounds the whole sit-or-kneel-instead-of-stand-during-the-national-anthem debacle. Moreover, it also spoofed our upcoming presidential election, having the inept 
and wholeheartedly clueless former fourth-grade teacher Mr. 
Garrison represent The Don. We give a laurel to Trey Stone 
and Matt Parker for so brilliantly spooﬁ  ng the notion that Trump honestly has no idea what he’s doing in terms of navi-gating the complex political sphere.
Oh Lord, Donald Trump. If you think he’s bad, Donald 
Trump Jr. is even worse. Yesterday he announced Papa Don will not be releasing his tax returns, a practice most presiden-tial nominees have honored since the mid-’70s. This dart is 
not only presented to grease-ﬁ  re hairdos Don and Don Jr., 
but also to those who criticize politicians for quiet and 
corrupt practices but refuse to acknowledge these same practices in their preferred candidate. I mean seriously, making tax returns public is a given. Why do Trump support-ers think their candidate is exempt from engaging in well-founded and fundamentally transparent political practices? 
Speaking of blatant hypocrisy and conﬁ  rmation bias, New 
Jersey Gov. Chris Christie has always been notoriously 
anti-marijuana, so when he approved a bill Wednesday that 
allows the use of medical marijuana for those with post-traumatic stress disorder, we were all pleasantly surprised. We present a laurel to Gov. Christie, who clearly does not 
need the inﬂ  uence of marijuana to experience the munchies. 
Oh, and the late night munchies are back, fellow Gators. 
Italian Gator Pizza by the Slice has ofﬁ  cially reopened and is cranking out some fresh garlic rolls and pizza slices. How-ever, not all appreciate the luxury that is late-night, drunk-
enly craved, made-with-love pizza. Pizza Touch, a company 
based in Orlando, Florida, recently announced plans to in-
troduce pizza vending machines across Central Florida in 
the coming months. Perhaps the city truly is magical. But we here at the Alligator do not welcome our soon-to-be robot 
overlords, and for that, we present a dart to these automatic 
food dispensers. 
Don’t pretend the war isn’t coming, dear readers. That’s 
why we still release our paper in print. While an online plat-
form is available, we’re willing to sacriﬁ  ce those trees in order 
to prevent Skynet and its sister company, Samsung Group, 
which recently released the Galaxy Note 7, from complete domination. While the phone’s new features are undeniably innovative, the fact that the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission formally recalled the phone Thursday due to re-ports of exploding and overheating batteries is pretty horriﬁ  c. So far, people have suffered from some pretty serious burns as a result of this defect. We give a dart to Samsung for 
overlooking this hardware ﬂ  aw.
But Samsung isn’t the only mobile phone company that 
sold a phone with hardware ﬂ  aws. Apple Inc. messed up 
so bad. Not only did they purposely omit a headphone jack on their new iPhone 7, but then they had the audacity to describe this omission as “courageous.” There’s nothing cou-rageous about making iPhone users buy (probably Apple-licensed) Bluetooth headphones when Apple has perfectly good ones already. We give a dart to both Apple and those 
of you who are falling for this.The confusion of finding a cultural identity
It’s really weird to be confused about your 
cultural identity. I will always say I am Puerto Rican before I am Mexican and be-fore I am American. My family is huge and loud and very Hispanic. We’re great fun at 
parties. At the same time, however, I’ve often felt like I’m “too white” to be Hispanic and “too Hispanic” to be American, and it’s frustrating to explain to my friends and family when I feel like I can’t fully ﬁ  t in with them.
I feel like I’m closer to the Puerto Rican side of my 
family, mostly because they’re who I grew up with. Their pride for the island and its culture is incredibly powerful and contagious, and that’s what I’ve been exposed to for most of my life. My white friends knew how loud and fun my family’s parties were and typically made comments like, “I love your crazy Puerto Rican family.” The prob-lem with this is that I don’t really ﬁ  t in with the wild or crazy aspects of my family. I don’t dance, I’m not loud and I’ve never been one to shout “Wepa!” when I get excited.
Socially, I could ﬁ  t in with the Mexican side of my 
family more than my Puerto Rican side because I have a similar personality and temperament to my cousins from that side of my family. It was mostly the language bar-rier that made it hard for me to feel like I belonged. I felt dumb and childlike whenever I had to ask my family to slow down or repeat something multiple times, even though I know it’s irrational for me to feel that way. Other than that, only little things set me apart from them. I can-not, for the life of me, handle spicy food, and I don’t re-ally care for salsa or guacamole, although my roommate and friends are helping me work on that.
As for the 100-percent Americans in my life, trying to 
ﬁ  t in with them has always been a bit weird. My friends were allowed to stay out as late as they wanted after they turned 18 years old because they were legally considered adults by the law and their parents, but con-vincing my parents to let me stay out past mid-night was like pulling teeth. Even before I could leave the house, I’d have to provide an in-depth account of where I was going and whom I was going with. In regard to my curfew, my friends would say things along the lines of, “Tell your mom no.” My response to this was dying inside and trying to laugh it off because I knew if I ever told my mom no, my soul would leave my 
body.
What has consistently made me feel like an outsid-
er to both my family and friends, though, was that my American friends had so many ideas of what a Mexican or Puerto Rican person should be like, and I hardly ﬁ  t any of their expectations. I felt like I had to be ﬂ  uent in Spanish and able to cook traditional dishes perfectly. To them, I had to eat Mexican food for every meal and have a million relatives at my house at all times. It was frustrating to me, mostly because some people automatically expected me to be so much more “ethnic” than I was so that I could ﬁ  t archetypes, like the “ﬁ  ery Latina,” for their entertainment — although I do admit I ﬁ  t that role pretty well when I get upset about something. What I’m getting at is you can save yourself some confusion by knowing you don’t have to ﬁ  t every stereotype to belong to a culture. So raise a glass to the Hispanics who don’t speak Spanish, the Americans who don’t like football and every other person who doesn’t ﬁ  t their ethnicity’s stereotypical mold.
Alexa DeLoera is a UF political science senior. Her 
column appears on Fridays.
Alexa Delaera
opinions@alligator.org
“I’ve often felt like I’m ‘too white’ to be Hispanic 
and ‘too Hispanic’ to be American, and it’s 
frustrating to explain to my friends and family 
when I feel like I can’t fully it in with them.”Letters to the EditorWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Change is natural. Change is good. 
There are not many emotions greater than the anticipation of change. It gives us everything we can want in life: something to look forward to, to 
desire. Plans held into the not-too-distant fu-ture help us trudge through the monotonous present, giving us an attainable shift out of our current boredom and into something new.
Humans are bored creatures. Since the be-
ginning of time, man has been plagued with the inability to be intellectually stimulated at all times, and thus was forced to pursue other endeavors to satisfy the mind’s hunger. The intellectual and imaginative endeavors of the terminally bored have given us one of human-kind’s greatest accomplishments: the arts.
Growing up, life seemed to be nothing but 
a series of well-structured phases, with each grade acting as a single step on a magniﬁ  cent staircase toward adulthood. But as much as I’d like for life to simply be a hedonic stair-step-per, I have recently come to the sour realization that the predetermined steps on my staircase are beginning to dissolve in front of me. In high school, it felt like I had an inﬁ  nite number of roads before me. Some of these roads were safe, some were treacherous. Some were paths well-worn by many before me. Others still had that oily shine of fresh as-phalt on a Florida afternoon. It was an exciting and daunting time to be alive, but I now envy my 18-year-old self, standing at one of the forks in life’s road. 
Now, as I near the halfway point of my 
college career, I can see my options growing fewer and fewer with every decision I make. I suppose that is just part of growing older: Each decision’s impact is ampliﬁ  ed and severs your access to some other decision down the road. The result? Well, fewer big changes.
Because change keeps the mind on its toes, I now understand the potential boredom of adult life. You ﬁ  nally sink into your job, settle down with a career and get used to it. Respon-sibilities accumulate, and with them comes a reluctance to risk change.
“At that time, I often thought that 
if I had to live in the trunk of a dead tree, with nothing to do but look up at the sky ﬂ  owing overhead, little by little I would have gotten used to it,” 
wrote Albert Camus in “The Stranger.” 
This pseudo-philosophical banter has not 
been for naught. With the number of paths in my life starting to diminish, I have been forced to face boredom in a new way. In my experi-ence, I believe I have found a temporary cure for a bad case of the doldrums: Reading. 
No, not just reading. Sure, we read all the 
time — from dull textbooks to Donald Trump tweets — but much of our daily reading is ei-ther required or simply for informational pur-poses; nothing to stretch, poke and prod the creative side of our brains. 
Whether it’s an actual cure, or just a pla-
cebo for lassitude, I have found leisurely and creative reading to be a means of temporary es-cape from the banality of bus rides to and from campus. Through the magniﬁ  cent worlds of colorful novels, the creative juices of the right brain start to leak over the monochromatic parts — a refreshing and addictive experience.  
College students read a lot, but it’s largely 
out of necessity and its strong correlation with GPA. We’re all busy and have our life plans be-fore us, but it has taken me too long to see the value in literature as a means of both ﬁ  ghting the tedium of adulthood and giving the brain a much-deserved vacation. Books can help make the seasons of life cycle more smoothly, while also providing a means of intellectual explora-tion. Try it. You just might like it.
Andrew Hall is a UF business administra-
tion junior. His column appears on Fridays.
Leisurely reading in college is rare, but it's certainly worth the timeColumn
On Monday, former Prime Minister of 
the United Kingdom David Cameron announced his resignation as a mem-ber of Parliament for the Conserva-tive Party, three months after the 
Brexit referendum. While he may be remem-bered for years to come as “the man who ac-cidentally caused Britain to leave the Euro-pean Union,” Cameron also leaves a powerful legacy behind — perhaps one that American Republicans can learn from.
Throughout his premiership, Cameron 
achieved important social reforms. Most nota-bly, he supported the legalization of same-sex 
marriage in 2013, despite ﬁ  erce opposition 
from his own Conservative Party. Addition-ally, he stood behind legislation curbing po-lice “stop-and-search” powers and legisla-tion forcing businesses to reveal gender pay gaps. Considering the centuries-old tradition of social conservatism in the party, Cameron achieved a signiﬁ  cant feat: He showed the U.K. that the Conservative Party is ready to 
move on from archaic social issues and that 
there is more to the Conservative Party than homophobia and xenophobia. 
As Alan Duncan noted in his recent Time 
magazine piece, after becoming prime minis-ter in 2010, Cameron established a stable coalition government with the left-of-center Liberal Democrats. Although the coali-tion was expected to fail, he 
enabled a wide range of public 
sector reform, including the de-volution of powers in health, education and local government. Duncan noted that Cameron knew when to compromise in the face of unpopular policies, but he also knew when to stand by principles. This was most evident in Cameron's introduction of 
same-sex marriage legislation despite back-
lash from his own Conservative members of Parliament. 
Unfortunately, the state of conservatism in 
the U.S. is much bleaker. Mainstream Repub-licans stubbornly hold onto these outdated ideals and attempt to represent them as fun-damental values of the party. In fact, the 2016 Republican platform considers traditional 
marriage as “the foundation for a free society” 
and pornography as a “public health crisis.” Not only are these stances deeply out of touch with cultural and social transformations, but as a result, they also alienate important de-mographics such as women, millennials, minorities and the LGBTQ+ community. Forty years ago, these communities were not politically organized 
and remained relatively left out 
in the political consciousness. Writing these communities off today would be absurd, given their increasing activism and mobilization. Yet even today, 
over a year after its legalization, only three out of 54 Republican senators have come out publically in support of same-sex marriage. 
Do Republicans truly think this number rep-
resents its base?
The same applies to the Hispanic constitu-
ency. The desire to stop illegal immigration, justiﬁ  ed as it may be, should have never led to a situation of hysteria in which many His-panics no longer feel comfortable with the Re-publican party. President George W. Bush's administration at least understood the impor-
tance of integrating the Hispanic constituency 
into the party. The failed Comprehensive Im-migration Reform Act of 2007 could have se-cured the loyalty of a substantial proportion of the Hispanic community for many years to come. Today, that seems unlikely. 
What is most unfortunate in all of this 
is that the Republican Party has more to of-fer beyond cultural warfare. The party has a strong intellectual tradition that encour-
ages productivity, thoughtful critique of the 
welfare state and excessive public spending. Likewise, the party has a tradition of strong foreign policy with a grand strategy aimed at protecting the country, its allies and ensuring world stability. For the past several decades, Republicans have been at the forefront of de-fending democracy, preventing genocide and assuming an international role based on mor-
als. 
Whether people agree with these policies, 
it is evident that nothing has hurt the Republi-
can Party more than cultural wars and failure to adapt to social transformations. Hopefully the Republican Party can come out of its cur-rent identity crisis with a new social platform that can adapt to a changing social and politi-cal climate. Until then, Republican politicians 
can learn a thing or two from David Cameron. 
Julian Fleischman is a UF political science 
and telecommunication senior. His column 
appears on Fridays.
The Republican Party can learn adaptability from David CameronColumn
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org
Julian Fleischman
opinions@alligator.orgOn-campus housing should be 
better maintained
My daughter moved into on-campus 
housing in August 2016.  She was so excit-ed to begin her college experience that she moved in early by volunteering as a Gator Aide to help others before the semester started.  That excitement was short-lived.
In less than a week, the bathroom began 
ﬂ  ooding. Three separate service orders were submitted over the next few days for the ev-
er-increasing pools of water that were form-
ing in the bathroom, but no one responded. It wasn’t until the ﬂ  ooding overﬂ  owed from the bathroom to the kitchen and bedrooms that an emergency crew responded. It took two RAs to verify that, yes, it was now an emergency that required an immediate re-sponse from maintenance. Even then, the girls were told to just mop up the inches of disgusting water.Just as the dorm rooms were drying from 
that ﬂ  ooding, Hurricane Hermine resulted in another round of ﬂ  ooding from the walls and roof, which saturated the carpet and caused water damage to anything touch-ing the carpet. Once again, response was delayed, and intervention was minimal. Industrial fans were placed to dry out the carpeting in the days following.
After the storm damage, the area RA 
coordinator reminded my daughter of an email that was sent out prior to the storm to remind residents to remove everything 
from the ﬂ  oor in case of ﬂ  ooding. Since my 
daughter lives on the top ﬂ  oor, she didn’t 
heed the warning, as it seemed inapplicable 
at the time. The conversation with the area 
coordinator made me realize this kind of 
ﬂ  ooding and water damage has happened 
with enough frequency in the past to war-
rant a warning after all. 
Between these two ﬂ  oods and a slew of other minor, unrelated issues happening 
within the ﬁ  rst two weeks of the semester, I insisted she request an appeal to her hous-ing contract that would allow her to move off-campus. With the campus closed during the hurricane and holiday weekend, no one responded to my request to remove her im-mediately.
I then used the U Matter, We Care hot-
line and got a response from Jen Day Shaw,  the associate vice president and Dean of Students, who forwarded the issue to T.J. Logan, the director of housing for admin-
istrative services. Logan called and said it 
was unnecessary to meet with him if we 
wanted to proceed with terminating the 
housing contract, as he would support our 
application once it was submitted.
Imagine my surprise when despite the 
information provided, my daughter’s ﬁ  rst 
appeal was denied. I suspect there are many 
similar issues, and many people are com-plicit in preventing the spread of this infor-mation in order to force students to accept substandard, hazardous accommodations because they are contractually obligated to pay for the entire term. However, as the landlord, the university is also obligated to provide accommodations that are safe and in good repair.
So this exasperated, irate Gator Mom 
wants to hear from current or former on-campus residents and any current or former RAs that know of delayed maintenance or issues pertaining to UF buildings. I’ve cre-
ated a Facebook page, “End UF Housing 
Hostage Program.” Please post your stories 
and experiences online. Before change can 
begin, we need to document the issues. I’m 
willing to advocate all the way to the Flor-
ida governor’s ofﬁ  ce to make sure students 
are not victimized by their on-campus hous-
ing or the staff entrusted to protect them.
Mary Ferguson is a Gator mom.8   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
LOCAL
By Dylan Dixon
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jaliyah Howard, like most ﬁ  rst-
graders, has a natural afﬁ  nity for 
exploring the world.
The 6-year-old learned at an 
early age how to open locks, in-cluding the deadbolt on her front door. 
But because Jaliyah is primarily 
nonverbal, a result of her autism spectrum disorder, her mother, Jo-von Howard, always worries about her daughter’s safety.
“When she doesn’t respond 
to her name, that’s a frightening thing, even inside your house.” Howard said. 
However, a new state pilot pro-gram, launched by the UF Center for 
Autism and Related Disabilities, is 
offering to help keep track of indi-
viduals who have autism, which may make them prone to wander-ing.
Project Leo will provide free 
wristwatch-style tracking devices to individuals with autism, a disor-der that affects one in 68 children in the U.S. The project was found-ed after 9-year-old Leo Walker, a boy with autism, drowned in 2014 after wandering from his home.
The UF center is waiting to re-
ceive 80 personal transmitters to distribute to individuals and fami-lies that are unable to afford their own tracker, said Ann-Marie Or-lando, a research assistant profes-sor at the center. She said the local 
sheriff’s ofﬁ  ces in the ﬁ  ve counties 
that the center will serve are wait-
ing on the receivers. Once both the trackers and the receivers come in, they can be handed out.
 The center received $100,000 
in-state grants in order to partici-pate in the program, Orlando said. Florida Atlantic University and the University of South Florida will also be distributing transmitters, she said. 
“Families work very hard to 
keep their children safe, and we’re trying to help them do that,” Or-lando said. “I think this device will give some parents assurances that they’re not alone, and in case their child does wander, that support is available.”
The device can be attached to 
clothing or worn around the wrist or ankle. It sends transmissions to individuals’ local sheriff’s depart-ments so law enforcement can lo-
cate them if they get lost.
UF became involved in the proj-
ect after Orlando and other mem-
bers of the center were approached by Florida Rep. Elizabeth Porter to become a distributor site for the transmitters, Orlando said. 
“Any effort that we can make to 
help families keep their loved ones safe, we’re going to work hard to do,” she said.
For Jaliyah’s parents, news of 
the program brings reassurance that they can keep track of her even when they can’t see her.
“When we found out about 
Project Leo coming out, I said, 
‘You know what, this really meets 
our needs,’” Jovon Howard said. 
“We’re happy families. We just want what’s best for our kids.”
 Project Leo to oﬀ  er tracking devices for people with autism
Residents of the 
following counties 
are eligible to receive 
the transmitter:
• Alachua 
• Baker 
• Columbia
• Hamilton 
• SuwanneeFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-3-16-29-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   10-12-16-20-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689- 8647     9-16-1-12
DONATE YOUR CAR FORBREAST CANCER!Help United Breast Foundation’sEducation, Prevention & Support ProgramsFAST FREE PICKUP24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION1-866- 594-4556      9-16-1-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 AutosFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
ACROSS
1 Shot in the dark
5 Mild expletive
9 Contraction used
with “up”
14 Confining room
15 River originating
in Manchuria
16 Assails
17 Woodstock
performer before
Joan
18 Sci-fi guru19 Rodeo maker
20 Number on
some beer
bottles?
23 Make even the
slightestcomment
24 Hall of Famer
Musial
25 Some suits,
briefly
28 Egg foo __30 Depot worker
32 Flight regulatory
org.
35 Washateria
wear?
38 “__ turca:
allegretto”:Mozart rondo
40 “Is that __?”
41 Floor option42 Musical work
played whereBrits go?
47 Sci-fi craft48 Exotic journey49 Kennel calls51 Terrestrial
wiggler
52 Storm sound55 Jefferson bills,
slangily
59 Smokeless
chimney duct?
61 Courts in some
hotels
64 Bend for a swan,
maybe
65 Woodworking
tool
66 Contemporary of
Beethoven
67 Trouser parts68 Chatted with
online
69 Quirky70 2015 World
Series-winningmanager Ned
71 Much of the MTV
generationDOWN
1 Natural skin
protection
2 __ firma
3 Way in the back,
often
4 Pass easily5 Prestigious
NASCAR venue
6 Lima love7 Many Renoirs
8 Foster __:
sunglasses brand
9 Self-titled 1987
pop album
10 Diner concoction11 Phil Mickelson’s
alma mater: Abbr.
12 Toon devil
13 “The Simpsons”
disco guy
21 Subject of an evil
negotiation
22 “Dumb and
Dumber” actress
25 Parental control
device
26 Italian soccer
great Rossi
27 Dash datum
29 Tortilla chip
topper, informally
31 It’s not observed
in P.R.
32 Pseudo33 “Half __ is ... ”
34 On high
36 San Antonio-to-
Dallas dir.
37 Small craft
39 Picasso’s here43 Picking site44 Giza’s river45 Like the
maximum sum
46 Multinational
energy gp.
50 Less, when
added?53 To an adequate
degree
54 __ diet56 Versifier’s
weather
57 Calculus pioneer58 Origins59 Echelon60 Touring jobs61 “What a darling
baby!”
62 Golfer’s support63 Cred for bringing
someone home
By Mark McClain©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/16/1609/16/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, September 16, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016
NOW HIRING UF/SFC Students 
Production / Delivery / Stock Clerks
$10 - $13/hr
Apply at: SmokinNotes.com/Production
9-19-16-12-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 24 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     9-23-16-10-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Mortgage company looking for part-time lead originators. $12/hour plus bonus. Weekday evenings. Students preferred. Email your contact info or resume to mike@AmericanFinancial.loans     9-16-16-5-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800- 224-0305     9-16-1-16
LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?You and Your Family May be entitledto significant CASH AWARD.Call 1-855- 389-3099      9-16-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope &amp; Help LineFor a free assessment, 1-855- 995-3142     9-16-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)FLIGHT SERVICE DISPATCHERGet FAA approved training in weeks,not yearsTo become a certified aircraft dispatcherJOB PLACEMENT ASSISTANCECall AIM 888-242- 2649       9-16-1-15
DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary!Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price LockLock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion!855-479- 7963      9-16-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?Settle for a fraction of what you owe!Results may vary.Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates 1-877- 330-3429      9-16-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16Oak Hall School is looking for coaches in the sports of soccer (girls) and tennis (girls). Application and more information can be found at www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment    9-22-16-7-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Caregiver neededCompassionate caregiver needed for young lady with disability. Must be at least 18 years old, have a reliable vehicle,  and high school diploma or higher education.Over-nights and weekend shifts available.If interested, please contact Maryam Nikoonejad at (352)246-6039or Mr.Niko at (352)200-1017.        9-21-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 16 Health ServicesFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   1 3 
ENO HAMMOCKS!
Single and Double Nest Hammocks - lots of 
colors in stock now. Just 1 mile N of UF on 
13th St. Lloyd Clarke Sports. 352-372-7836     
9-20-16-5-18
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Baggies & Board Shorts Sale!
Patagonia, Columbia, Vissla, Billabong and 
Quiksilver. 30-50% OFF! Just 1 mile N of UF 
on 13th St. Lloyd Clarke Sports. 352-372-7836    
9-20-16-5-18Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!What makes you tick?
The non-profit Center for Applications of 
Psychological Type is seeking volunteers 
who want to explore their personality in a 
study looking at the links between knowl -
edge of personality, behavior, and attitudes 
towards others.
You will receive compensation, take a free 
personality assessment, and receive expert 
feedback on your results. To learn more and 
take a brief eligibility survey:
www.capt.org/etv
etvstudy@capt.org
(352) 375 – 0160
9-20-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 24 Pets
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida tennis teams open fall play
The Florida men's and women's tennis teams will be in North Carolina today 
to play in the three-day Duke James Bonk Invite and Duke Invitational, re-
spectively. Read our preview online at Alligator.org/sports.For Jim McElwain and the 
Florida football team, this weekend isn't just about winning, but dominating. Read the column on pg. 20.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan celebrates during Florida's 3-1 win over Florida State on Sept. 20 in the O'Connell Center. 
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
It’s been a long, tiresome 
journey.
The Florida volleyball 
team has logged thousands 
of miles since the start of the season. It has covered both 
coasts, traveling as far as the 
Pacific Northwest to battle 
No. 1 Nebraska and No. 24 
Oregon and north to Brook-lyn, New York, to compete in the Blackbird Invitational.
Today, all the late-night 
flights, bus rides and hotel check-ins will come to an 
end — at least for the time 
being — as the No. 7 Gators (7-1) face the Florida A&M Rattlers (2-8) at noon in the 
Gators’ first home match of 
the season. 
“Being home is definitely 
something we’ve been look-ing forward to,” UF middle 
blocker Rhamat Alhassan 
said.
But it won’t be in the 
O’Connell Center.
With the O'Dome's reno-
vations not scheduled to be completed until late Decem-ber, the Gators will be calling 
a different gym home — the 
Lemerand Athletic Center, the team’s practice facility.
And with a maximum ca-
pacity of about 700, “The Lem” is miniature compared to the O’Dome. But Alhassan doesn’t expect that to be a 
disadvantage.
“In here it’s such a close 
environment that we’re 
probably not going to hear 
each other very well,” the 
junior All-American said. “It’s going to be really loud, very rowdy. And, obviously, 
we’re gonna feed to that en-
vironment.”
The 6-foot-4 Alhassan has 
excelled so far this season, 
especially on the defensive 
end. 
Her 27 blocks, including 
seven against No. 13 FSU on 
Wednesday, and 1.29 blocks 
per set rank first and second on the team, respectively.
Her play, coupled with the 
point scoring of fellow All-Americans Carli Snyder and Alex Holston, is a big reason why the Gators have swept 
their opponents in five of 
their seven wins this season.
And that trend figures 
to continue against Florida A&M, as the Rattlers have lost in straight sets in almost 
half of their matches. 
With one of the worst at-
tacks in the country, the Rat-
tlers average a lowly 11.1 
kills per set to the tune of a 
.158 hitting percentage and will have a difficult time contending with the size and 
depth of this Florida team. 
“The depth has been After three weeks on the road, Gators 
volleyball ﬁ  nally ready to return home
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 16By Alligator Staff
So North Texas is coming into 
town this weekend to close out Flor-
ida’s three-game home stand to open 
up the season.
I’m sure you're all wondering: 
What the hell is there to know about 
North Texas’ football team, the 
mighty Conference-USA Mean Green 
team that went 1-11 last year?
Well, we here at the alligatorSports 
Brand Picks Column uncovered a ran-dom nugget from the school’s rich his-
tory that makes sense if you put two 
and two together.
Mean Joe Greene — yes, the Hall 
of Fame defensive lineman Mean Joe 
Greene who played for the Pittsburgh 
Steelers and is well-known for the “Hey, Kid, Catch” commercial — is a North Texas alum and received his revered nickname as a play on the 
school’s nickname.
Who knew? A lot of you, probably. 
Maybe we’ll see the rising of North 
Texas’ next superstar in The Swamp. 
Anyway, enough of that.
Debating the game of the week— a 
Saturday-night Southeastern Confer-
ence showdown in Baton Rouge be-
tween Mississippi State and LSU — are 
online sports editor Patrick Pinak and assistant sports editor Ethan Bauer.
LSU (-14) has the edge because…
All you really need to know about 
this game is that it’s a night game in 
Death Valley. 
Since Les Miles took over in 2005, 
the Tigers have only lost one Satur-day night home game to an unranked opponent — last year’s 31-14 loss to 
Arkansas. 
But LSU will plow the Bulldogs and 
cover the spread for one simple rea-
son: A healthy, well-rested Leonard Fournette. 
Fournette sat out a game after re-PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 7 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN2 / 850 AM
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15FOOTBALL 
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
While Antonio Callaway is questionable for 
Saturday’s game against North Texas, several 
other players will not play.
The list starts on the offensive line with right 
guard Tyler Jordan, who needs to have some “work done” on his eye, coach Jim McElwain said. Jordan previously broke his orbital bone — one of the bones surrounding the eye — and McElwain said this setback relates to that. 
He added that Jordan will be out for a cou-
ple of weeks and hinted at redshirt freshman Richerd Desir-Jones as a possible replacement. 
Another player who will 
miss a substantial amount of time is true freshman linebacker Jeremiah Moon, who injured his thumb and will require surgery. He was listed as senior Daniel McMillian’s backup at the 
strong-side linebacker spot on Florida’s last depth chart.
“He was doing a heck of a job for us,” McEl-
wain said, “not only at the ‘backer spot but also on special teams. He did a great job.”
Without Moon, backing up McMillian could 
fall to redshirt freshman Rayshad Jackson, walk-on redshirt junior Cristian Garcia or true freshman Vosean Joseph. Moon’s timetable for return is not known. 
Fellow true freshman Tyrie Cleveland, who 
hasn’t played in a college game yet, will also be out after re-aggravating a hamstring injury that has nagged him since arriving in Gainesville. 
The former four-star wide out’s target return 
date is also unknown.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org Jordan, Moon out for Saturday's game
Jordan
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
tweaking his ankle against Wis-
consin in Week 1 and will be back bulldozing opposing linebackers. 
Plus, Fournette went full sav-
age mode when he faced MSU a year ago. He rushed for 159 yards and scored all three touchdowns 
in the 21-19 win. Yes, he alone 
scored more points than the entire team.
And he’ll probably do that 
again Saturday. 
-Patrick Pinak
Actually, Mississippi State 
(+14) will take it all the way 
because…
I want to say MSU will beat the 
spread because it has home ﬁ  eld advantage, but it doesn't. I want to say MSU will beat the spread because Bulldogs beat Tigers any day, but my best guess is that’s 
probably not true. I want to say 
MSU will beat the spread because it’s gotten off to a promising start, but it lost to South Alabama. 
That doesn’t leave me with 
much, but I do like Mississippi State’s maroon color. I’ll pick the Bulldogs for that reason and that reason only. 
-Ethan Bauer
Now onto the picks!Holding down his ﬁ  rst-place 
spot with a 10-6 record is alligator-
Sports editor Ian “Your last name sounds Jewish” Cohen, who only cares about you and your life if you’re Jewish. We get it, Ian, you have 82 menorahs in your house. 
But not everyone reeks of Juda-
ism, Ian Benjamin, so stop judging people by their last names. You can be friends with the rest of us, 
too.
Making a jump to second place 
with a 9-7 record is the Orlando 
Sentinel’s Edgar “I feel like I’m on 
Molly” Thompson, who, after try-
ing the media-provided coffee at Florida’s game against Kentucky on Saturday, said he felt like he 
was sipping “liquid cocaine.” We 
get it, Edgar, you can’t handle your caffeine. Maybe you should bump down to green tea and leave the real caffeine consumption to 
the professionals.
In third place at 8-8 is Gator 
Country’s Nick “and a Diet Coke” De La Torre, who somehow ran up an almost $50 tab at Gator's Dock-
side on Wednesday. Yes, Nick, all the food and alcohol will help you 
ﬁ  t snuggly into the kid’s size me-
dium t-shirt, but holy crap, man, get a hold of yourself before you become a diabetic. 
And here comes the fun one. 
We have a four-way tie for fourth place with 7-9 records.
First is alligatorSports assistant 
editor Ethan “I am an 80-year-old man” Bauer, who ordered a leather wallet off amazon that can 
magnetically hold his phone in 
a brown, worn-out leather case. Maybe that’s why you never talk; because you’re too good for us youngins.
Next is staff writer Jordan “I 
DON’T KNOW HOW TO WHIS-PER,” McPherson, who caused 
half the Alligator staff severe hear-
ing loss during the alligatorSports podcast recording this week. We hate to break it to you Jordan, but microphones exist so you don’t 
have to scream at people. We 
know you care a lot about sports, but there’s no reason to ruin our ear drums, thank you. 
Third in the bunch is the 
Gainesville Sun’s Graham “this gives me morning wool” Hall, who got, um, excited over a sheep-
ﬁ  lled tweet on Thursday. We get 
it Graham. Your insufferable neck-beard makes the sheep look like your brethren, but keep it in your 
pants, man.
Rounding out the four-way tie 
is 247sports.com’s Thomas “put-
ting up a ﬁ  ght” Goldkamp, who 
remarkably had a winning record 
last week. Good for you, Gold-kamp. You have a pulse in this competition. Glad to hear you’re 
not on the injury report.
And in dead-ass last with a 
piss-poor record of 6-10 is alli-
gatorSports online editor Patrick 
“Too cool for this section” Pinak. 
As the only person remotely ca-pable of anything athletic, it’s no wonder that half the guys here 
have a super not-subtle man crush 
on you. Maybe that’s why you just want to sit in silence, chew-ing gum like a cow, because you think you’re that much better than 
us. It’s a shame your picks column 
performance doesn’t live up to all 
that hype. 
To see our picks, head over to 
Alligator.org/sports. PICKS,  from pg 14There is a four-way 
tie for fourth place, with four writers each with 7-9 records16   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
When Florida men’s golf coach JC Deacon 
walked into the All-Sports Press Conference, 
he stated right off the bat that he felt his team could’ve played better.
Despite shooting 43 strokes better at this 
year’s rendition of the Carpet Capital Colle-giate, according to Deacon their performance just felt worse.
Acknowledging his team’s success — three 
players ﬁ  nished at below or even par — he pointed out where they went wrong, as well.
“We just still pay a lot of attention to things 
that aren’t going to help our score and wast-ing energy on things that aren’t gonna help the team or help out guys individually and that’s what really held us back this weekend,” Dea-con said.
Deacon also mentioned how the good play 
of sophomores Sam Horsﬁ  eld and Gordon Neale, who shot 8 under par and 4 under par, 
respectively, was essentially cancelled out by 
guys shooting at 7 and 9 over par.
Deacon wasn’t too pleased with Florida’s 
ﬁ  fth place ﬁ  nish in Dalton, Georgia, either, but he was impressed by one of his players.
Horsﬁ  eld, the second ranked player in the 
World Amateur Golf Ranking, had an amaz-ing ﬁ  rst round on Friday. For the second time in his college career, Horsﬁ  eld lead the pack 
after the ﬁ  rst round, but this time featuring a 7 
under par performance. 
And that success is something to be expect-
ed, both by his coach and himself.
“Sam is special. We’re really lucky to have 
him,” Deacon said. “He’s our leader on the golf 
course. He’s going to bring it all year long. He 
was in the hunt this weekend and we expect that from him every week, and he expects that from himself, which is the most important thing.”
One person the Gators were missing this 
weekend, someone who might have been able to help improve Florida’s score, was freshman Andy Zhang.
Zhang, the No. 2 golfer in Golfweek’s Class 
of 2016 rankings, missed his ﬁ  rst collegiate tournament due to a wrist injury.
As of now, it is unknown when Zhang will 
be ready to compete, but Deacon made it clear, when Zhang is perfectly healthy, he will be uti-lized. 
“We all agree that we need to be really 
cautious on this one and get (Zhang) to 100% 
before we try to push anything,” Deacon said. 
“We want to win now and there is an urgency I think for all of us on this team to compete and show what we can be, but at the same time, we need Andy when the season starts winding down in 2017.”
As the sole freshman of the team, Deacon 
wants to make sure his career isn’t plagued by lingering injuries that weave him in and out of 
the lineup.
And it’s a chance for someone else to step 
up. 
There is a little over a week left before the 
Gators tee off in the Windon Memorial Classic 
on Sep. 25, and Deacon wants to see a lot of improvement from his guys before then. 
“We had some really tough discussions, 
and a great workout (Monday) morning to 
get back at it,” Deacon said. “The guys are fo-
cused.
“We got be better, it’s as simple as that.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org  UF men’s golf looking to 
build upon ﬁ  rst tournament
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
It’s been a long, tiresome journey.
The Florida volleyball team has logged 
thousands of miles since the start of the sea-son. It’s covered both coasts, traveling as far as the Paciﬁ  c Northwest to battle No. 1 Ne-
braska and No. 24 Oregon and north to Brook-
lyn, New York, to compete in the Blackbird Invitational.
Today, all the late-night ﬂ  ights, bus rides 
and hotel check-ins will come to an end — at least for the time being — as the No. 7 Gators 
(7-1) face the Florida A&M Rattlers (2-8) at 
noon in the Gators’ ﬁ  rst home match of the season. 
“Being home is deﬁ  nitely something we’ve 
been looking forward to,” UF middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan said.
But it won’t be in the O’Dome.With the Stephen C. O’Connell Center’s 
renovations not schedule to be completed un-
til late December, the Gators will be calling a 
different gym home — the Lemerand Athletic Center, the team’s practice facility.
And with a maximum capacity of about 
700, “The Lem” is miniature compared to the O’Dome. But Alhassan doesn’t expect that to be a disadvantage.
“In here it’s such a close environment that 
we’re probably not going to hear each other 
very well,” the junior All-American said. “It’s 
going to be really loud, very rowdy. And, obvi-ously, we’re gonna feed to that environment.”
The 6-foot-4 Alhassan has been on a tear 
so far this season, especially on the defensive end. Her 27 blocks, including seven against No. 13 FSU on Wednesday, and 1.29 blocks per set rank ﬁ  rst and second on the team, re-spectively.
Her outstanding play, coupled with the 
point scoring of fellow All-Americans Carli Snyder and Alex Holston, is a big reason as to 
why the Gators have swept their opponents in 
ﬁ  ve of their seven wins this season.
And that trend ﬁ  gures to continue against 
Florida A&M, as the Rattlers have lost in straight sets in almost half of their matches. 
With one of the worst attacks in the coun-
try, the Rattlers average a lowly 11.1 kills per set to the tune of a .158 hitting percentage and will have a difﬁ  cult time contending with the 
size and depth of this Florida team. 
“The depth has been something that has 
really helped us,” junior libero Caroline Knop 
said. “It has made us so much better.
“I’m excited to see what we can do. That’s 
for sure.”
As for UF coach Mary Wise, she said it will 
be interesting to see how her team handles the transition of playing at a different home site. 
“It’ll be a learning experience for all of us,” 
Wise said of playing in The Lem. “We prob-ably have no more of an advantage in this fa-cility than the visiting teams.”
With one exception — the crowd.“If they’re cheerin’, there’ll be an advan-
tage,” Wise said. “We have to give them rea-son to cheer, though.” 
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org   After three weeks on the 
road, Gators ﬁ  nally ready to return home3   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2016
IT’S COHEN DOWN / OPINION
 By Ian Cohen 
Sports Writer
As he sat comfortably in 
a collared Gators shirt, 
smiling at the wreath of 
reporters surrounding him minutes after his 
team demolished Kentucky 45-7 
on Saturday, defensive lineman 
Caleb Brantley said something in-
teresting. 
“I just think a lot of guys 
(weren’t) hyped to play UMass,” 
he said. 
Brantley was talking about 
the team from the week before 
— Massachusetts — the one that had lost 41 of its last 49 games, 
the same one the Gators struggled 
to put to sleep until the fourth 
quarter.
“You feel me?” Brantley add-
ed.
He was asked why Florida’s 
performance against Kentucky looked so differ-ent from its Week 1 showing, when the Gators’ play felt akin to slowly pull-
ing an old bandage 
off a freshly scabbed 
wound.
In many ways, 
Brantley’s succinct, 
simple answer was 
right: Guys weren’t hyped. 
Why should they have been? 
After all, this wasn’t why UF 
running back Mark Thompson 
transferred to Florida from Junior 
College, to face the same type of 
opponents that he steamrolled over en route to 18 touchdowns at Dodge City Community College 
last year. 
This wasn’t why senior line-
backer Jarrad Davis returned to 
UF, to prove to NFL scouts that he could rack up double-digit tackles 
against UMass. Davis can do that 
in his sleep.
This wasn’t why 
the players in Florida’s 
2016 recruiting class 
chose to play in The 
Swamp. They came to 
play teams like Michi-gan and Mississippi and, moreover, sim-
ply glide through their 
non-conference schedule, not be 
tested by the UMass Minutemen in their season opener.
That may all be true. Totally 
possible.
But it’s also true that Florida 
looked lifeless for a majority of its game against UMass, and that the Gators were tied with the Min-
utemen throughout most of the 
second quarter. They were Mu-
hammad Ali trading blows with a lightweight.
Against North Texas, the 
Gators can’t afford to be.Florida needs to dominate 
from the start, and it needs to win overwhelmingly. There can be no doubt that Florida is the better team, from the ﬁ  rst whistle to the 
last. From quarterback Luke Del 
Rio to martyred sophomore cor-
nerback Chris Williamson — who gave up a 53-yard completion on a blown coverage against Massa-
chusetts — there needs to be no 
doubt.
Just ask Jim McElwain.
“I’m obviously not a psychia-
trist or anything, but I just think 
there’s a certain way you go about 
your business no matter what it 
is,” he said Wednesday. “What I would hope is guys had enough personal pride to go out and do 
their job at the highest level that 
they can.”
In McElwain’s ﬁ  rst year, that 
wasn’t always the case.
His team almost lost to a 2-8 
FAU team in 2015, a game that wasn’t decided until the Owls 
forced the Gators into overtime.
They were pushed to the brink 
by East Carolina until pulling out 
a 31-24 victory at home.
And they barely defeated a 3-5 
Vanderbilt team, which only had one win in conference play, 9-7. 
If McElwain wants to put an 
end to Florida’s inconsistencies, to stop the uninspired perfor-
mances against lesser opponents 
and establish a tone for this sea-
son, or, how he frequently puts 
it, a “standard”, then it needs to 
begin Saturday night.
There needs to be no doubt 
that North Texas has no chance 
of winning this game.
If not, prepare for a long sea-
son.
Ian Cohen is the sports editor. 
Contact him at icohen@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @icohenb.  Florida needs to dominate North Texas  from the start
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenbINSIDE
Eddy Pineiro came to Florida with almost no football experience. Now, the 
kicker has the weight of UF’s special teams on his shoulders.
ONLINE
For updates and analysis from Florida’s Week 3 matchup against North T exas on Saturday, make sure to visit alligator.org/sports. 
NO PRESSUREBy Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Four years ago at Kendall Soccer Park, 
Eddy Pineiro did something abnormal.
A whistle sounded from the referee, 
signaling the start of Miami Sunset Senior 
High’s second-to-last game of the season 
against LaSalle. 
Pineiro received the opening kick from a 
teammate and rifled a half-field laser over a stumbling and confused LaSalle goalie and 
into the upper 90 portion of the net. 
It was the fastest goal in Sunset’s history 
— no small feat considering the program won back-to-back state championships in 2004 and ’05.
Coaches, players and fans were stunned. “It just exploded off his foot,” then-Sun-
set coach Jay Flipse said. 
“Most kids from that far have to put an 
arc on it. Well, this ball probably was 7 and a half feet off the damn ground the whole 
entire way.”
Pineiro’s teammate at the time, Fernando 
Hernandez, watched it all unfold.
“I was like, ‘Oh my god, this guy did 
it,’” Hernandez said. “We all knew this guy 
could do that, but then he actually did it.”
Back then, Pineiro’s only focus was soc-
cer. 
He was damn good, too. 
Before he was Eddy Pineiro, the Florida 
kicker capable of hitting 70-yard field goals 
who has already captured the hearts of 
Gator fans just two games into the season, 
he was Eddy Pineiro, the All-Dade County soccer player. 
He was named the Miami Herald’s 5A-4A 
Player of the Year in 2014, when he led the county in scoring.
And when the talented kicker finally 
transitioned to football, his leg carried him to scholarship offers, YouTube fame and a 
starting job in the Southeastern Conference. 
“When he struck a ball, it just sounded so 
much different than everybody else,” Flipse said. “That was evident even to Stevie Won-
der.”
*** 
Pineiro’s transition to football wasn’t an 
easy one, mentally or physically. 
After his junior soccer season, Flipse en-
couraged Pineiro’s father to introduce him 
to the game.
Pineiro was good enough to earn a soc-
cer scholarship — he later signed to play for Florida Atlantic University before be-
ing deemed academically ineligible by the NCAA and settling for a year at ASA College 
in Miami — but Flipse thought he had a bet-
ter shot booting balls on the gridiron.
And after that summer when he returned 
to school, Sunset’s football coach asked Flipse who had the strongest leg. The team needed a kicker.
“That’s easy,” Flipse told the coach be-
fore dropping Pineiro’s name.
But it wasn’t easy.
Pineiro had to turn away from soccer, the 
sport he grew up playing. 
Hernandez, who played with Pineiro all 
four years at Sunset, said Pineiro sometimes 
had to skip soccer practice for football prac-tice because the two often overlapped.
And although Pineiro’s decision paid off, 
there were rough patches along the way.
Flipse showed him the footwork: Lead 
with the left foot, take a hop-step, then two steps and strike it.
But Pineiro wanted to do it his way — by 
starting with his right foot.
“I said, ‘Eddy, you’re gonna find out I’m 
gonna be right,’” Flipse said. 
Sure enough, Pineiro changed his ways 
when he met Brandon Kornblue. 
Based out of South Florida, Kornblue 
hosts camps for kickers, punters and snap-pers all around the country to help them earn college exposure. 
A former kicker and punter for Michi-
gan’s 1997 National Championship team, he also provides personal instruction to ath-
letes like Pineiro.
Pineiro was introduced last February to 
Kornblue, who immediately saw the young kicker’s potential.
But Kornblue also knew he was incred-
ibly raw. 
“He had no idea where the ball was go-
ing,” Kornblue said. “One ball way left, one 
ball way right. He had never really been 
coached before.”
The two trained together for the next few 
months. Kornblue helped correct Pineiro’s technique, steps and leg swing.
After about three months, Pineiro had his 
coming out party in late April 2015.
He nailed a 71-yard field goal that 
bounced off the crossbar and sailed an 86-
yard kickoff in one of Kornblue’s camps. 
The field-goal video circulated on YouTube 
and now has more than 100,000 views. 
“That’s kind of what got everything roll-
ing,” Kornblue said.
What separated Pineiro from other kick-
ers was his leg. 
It’s what everyone who’s ever seen him 
kick a ball says. 
It’s what Florida coach Jim McElwain 
and Alabama coach Nick Saban saw when they were recruiting Pineiro.
Kornblue, who’s worked with notable 
kickers like the Vikings’ Blair Walsh, ad-mitted Pineiro’s leg strength was second to none.
But he added Pineiro personality also set 
him apart.
He thrives in pressure-packed situations, 
and he feeds off the limelight.
Kornblue saw it in his camps during the 
summer of 2015, when he was kicking in 
front of coaches with scholarship opportuni-
ties on the line. 
“Some guys will show signs of greatness 
then wilt in competition at camps because they don’t have the mental capacity,” Korn-blue said. “He stepped up big time.”
Nearly a week after the first YouTube 
video went viral and word spread, Florida offered Pineiro a scholarship in early June of 2015.
McElwain’s pursuit of the much-needed 
kicker was relentless.
However, the first-year coach was tasked 
with prying Pineiro from Saban’s tight grasp after the kicker committed early to the Crim-son Tide. 
A day after Alabama defeated Florida 
in the SEC Championship game on Dec. 5, McElwain was eating Cuban food with Pin-
eiro in his Miami home. 
McElwain’s personality, paired with the 
fact that Gainesville is much closer to Miami than Tuscaloosa, did the trick. 
Pineiro decommitted from Alabama and 
signed with the Gators.
***
The rest of Pineiro’s time at Florida has 
been a whirlwind. 
He worked with former standout UF 
kickers Caleb Sturgis and Judd Davis in the 
spring, along with Kansas City Chiefs kicker 
Cairo Santos. 
Their advice was invaluable, Pineiro said. 
“Stay calm when you’re going to kick and 
don’t worry about the crowd,” Pineiro said they told him. “Don’t worry about the cam-eras and just know what you know how to 
do.”
Sturgis, who now kicks for the Philadel-
phia Eagles in his fourth year in the NFL, has taken a special interest in Florida’s new-
est kicker. 
He flew in to Gainesville about five times 
just to work out with Pineiro and taught him how to have a kicker’s mindset.
“You can’t be weak-minded,” Pineiro 
said. “If you miss a kick, you move on.”
Two games into Pineiro’s career, he’s al-
ready leaning on that mindset.
In the team’s season opener against Mas-
sachusetts, he hit all three of his field goals — each longer than 40 yards. Fans bellowed 
his name throughout Ben Hill Griffin Sta-
dium.
“He was clutch. Clutch Eddy,” linebacker 
Jarrad Davis said. “He did some really good things tonight … he took care of business and after that one, the way he kicked it, 
I knew everything else was going in after that.”
Even quarterback Luke Del Rio was glad 
to have Pineiro waiting on the sidelines.
“I think, ‘Ah man, we have to punt,’ and 
then I see him run out,” Del Rio said. “And he drills it.”
Kentucky was a different story, however.
Pineiro made a 54-yard field goal but 
missed a 42-yarder and a 48-yarder. The lat-ter was so off the mark, it was reminiscent of a missed penalty kick in soccer. 
But McElwain said the 1-for-3 game was 
beneficial for Pineiro.
“In a game like this, I thought he grew up 
a little bit,” McElwain said.
***
Immediately after his first collegiate 
game, Pineiro found his father in the stands. 
Eddy Pineiro Sr. was wearing an orange 
Gators jersey with his son’s number — 15 — and his name etched across the back of it.
The two hugged and cried tears of joy. 
“It was awesome,” Pineiro said. “Hard 
work pays off.”
Pineiro Sr. has been right by his son’s 
side throughout the journey.
He would wake his son up at 5 a.m. to 
kick field goals. After junior college practice he would take him to practice more field 
goals in the afternoon, and he did so all while providing for their family by installing 
kitchens. 
One time, the two went out to practice 
field goals when they came across grass too thick to set the ball down on.
So Pineiro Sr. used his foot to hold the 
ball in place, a costly mistake. 
When Pineiro swung his leg, he blasted 
the ball but also clipped his father’s foot. 
“I think his father was walking with a 
limp for about three months,” Flipse said.
Pineiro said he’s grateful for his father 
and family’s sacrifices for him. 
It’s what makes seeing the ball sail 
through the uprights on Saturdays all worth 
it. 
It’s also why Pineiro hopes to one day do 
the same on Sundays in the NFL.
For his family.
For his father. “They say pressure’s on kickers. You 
want to know pressure?” Pineiro said. “Pres-
sure is my dad going to work every single day and he’s the only one that brings money 
into my house, so that’s pressure.”
That mindset has helped turn a soccer 
player from Miami into one of Florida’s most recognizable players. 
But more importantly, it helped his dream 
come to fruition.
“I’ve worked my butt off for two years 
and you know, came in here early as an 
early enrollee and worked hard for this mo-ment,” Pineiro said. “I’m just thanking God 
for it.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org
INJURY
REPORT
OUT
WR Tyrie Cleveland (hamstring)
OL Tyler Jordan (eye)WR Dre Massey (knee)LB Jeremiah Moon (thumb)OL Antonio Riles (ACL)
C Cam Dillard (elbow)CB Joseph Putu (leg)WR Antonio Callaway (quad)
QUESTIONABLEDOUBTFUL
OL Fred Johnson (ankle)PROBABLE
FLORIDA defense vs. NORTH TEXAS offense
Creighton BarrCMason FineQBJeffrey WilsonRB
Bryan 
Cox Jr.DE
Jalen 
T aborCB
Quincy
WilsonCB
Joey
IvieNT
Caleb
BrantleyDT
Jarrad
DavisMIKE
Alex
AnzaloneWILL
Nick Washington 
or Marcell HarrisS
Marcus 
MayeSSam RiceLG
Jordan MurrayLT
Willie 
RobinsonWR
Garrett GunterRG
Trey Keenan RT
Kenny BuyersWRFLORIDA offense vs. NORTH TEXAS  defense
Cam 
DillardC
Luke Del RioQB
Jordan Scarlett or Mark 
ThompsonRBDavid
SharpeLTMartez 
IveyLG
Richerd 
Desir-JonesRG
Fred
Johnson or 
Jawaan T aylorRT
DeAndre
Goolsby or 
C’yontai LewisTECourtney 
FinneyMIKE
Roderick 
YoungNT
Malik 
DilongaDE
Nate 
BrooksCBFred 
ScottWILL
Joshua 
WheelerJACKKishawn 
McClainS
James
GrayS
Lamical Perine or 
Jordan CronkriteRBC.J. WortonWR
Brandon
PowellWRJareid 
CombsDE
Chad 
DavisCB
Jordan
SheritDEThaddeous 
ThompsonWR
T erian GoreeWRSIGNS OF GREATNESS
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Eddy Pineiro (15) celebrates with defensive lineman Jordan Sherit after making a field goal during Florida’s 45-7 win over Kentucky on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Pineiro was a star soccer player in Miami before devoting his time to earning a football scholarship.
Former soccer 
star’s hard work paying off at UFKICK OFF
Editor: Ian Cohen   Photo for Cover Illustration: Emily Cochrane
Alligator, Friday, September 16, 2016
Ashton 
PrestonNICK
Duke 
DawsonNICK