We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 76 THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016
Young Florida team looks to 
end NCAA championship drought
UF track and ﬁ  eld athletes hope to be 
NCAA champs again, pg. 19
Students can access bottom two ﬂ  oors 
of Reitz Union
The Reitz Union is scheduled to open in February, pg. 5
Check out the Avenue
Netﬂ  ix drinking game, top 10 albums and more, pgs. 8-12Want to work for us?
Come to our open house Friday from 
noon to 5 p.m. We’re looking for contributing writers, photographers and 
copy editors.
Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
@MelissaGomez004
A UF student is trying to make navigating 
UF’s website easier.
Nicolas Fry, a UF computer engineering senior created the website Gatorlinks.xyz on 
Dec. 23 to help students access UF’s pages more easily. On one page, students can visit UF’s dining, RecSports or ﬁ  nancial aid web-sites.
The website, which shows links in blue 
boxes on an orange background, cost him $1.88 to buy, the 20-year-old said.“I wanted to make it for the whole UF com-
munity,” he said.
Students can contact him to add other links, 
or add it themselves, Fry said. The website, which started with four links, now has 15.
While he said he doesn’t track how many 
have used the page, he’s gotten positive feed-back from friends.
“My friends say, ‘Oh my God, this is exactly 
what I needed!’” Fry said.
Students sometimes create these websites 
as assignments, wrote UF spokesman Steve Orlando in an email.
“Anything that helps students ﬁ  nd what 
they need online is a good thing, although 
we’re quite proud of the new UF website re-
design, and we think students can ﬁ  nd what they need there fairly quickly,” he said.
Kelly Mahoney, 21, said UF’s new website, 
which launched Nov. 3, is beautiful, but she likes the simplicity of Fry’s website.
“You can make a website great, but I think 
what it boils down to is how easy it is to use,” the UF religion junior said.  UF student creates one-stop shop for UF’s websites
EPILOGUE
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
knewberg@alligator.org
@k_newberg
Arthur Jennings let his pas-
sion for music show.
Stefanie Acevedo, a former 
trombone student, said when he 
performed the trombone piece Berio’s “Sequenza,” which was written for a clown named 
Grock, Jennings dressed up as 
a clown.
The picture of Jennings 
dressed as a clown is now her Facebook profile picture, the 
29-year-old said.   
Arthur Jennings, a UF trom-
bone professor, died Jan. 1 at 
the age of 71. He died of Non-Hodgkin 
Lymphoma, a cancer that at-tacks the immune system. 
He was sick for a while, said 
Elizabeth Graham, a UF voice 
professor who was a friend and 
colleague of Jennings for 31 years.
Jennings started teaching 
trombone, euphonium, tuba 
and classes in music literature 
and music history at UF in 1985 and retired in Spring 2015. 
He played trombone with the 
Ocala Symphony Orchestra, the Gainesville Chamber Orchestra and the Jacksonville Symphony Orchestra. 
He also performed in Swe- Faculty and students 
remember beloved trombone professor
HE CAN’T COMMIT ANOTHER 
CRIME FOR 6 MONTHS.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
@martindvassolo
After an arrest and a suspension, UF run-
ning back Jordan Scarlett could see his drug 
charges dropped.
On Tuesday, Scarlett, 19, signed a de-ferred prosecution agreement, which states his misdemeanor marijuana charges may be dismissed if Scarlett avoids committing an-other crime in the next six months.
Scarlett is also required to pay $50 to the 
Ofﬁ  ce of the State Attorney and $150 to Proj-ect Payback.
On Dec. 19, 2015, police arrested Scarlett 
at the Keys Residential Complex after the 
residential hall director smelled weed out-
side Scarlett’s room and called authorities, according to a police report.When ofﬁ  cers arrived, 
Scarlett led them to his top desk drawer and pulled out a wooden pipe and a 
half-smoked joint, accord-
ing to the report.
Police arrested Scarlett 
on charges for possession of drug paraphernalia and 
possession of less than 20 grams of weed, according to the report.
Scarlett was suspended for the Jan. 1 Citrus Bowl against Michigan, a 41-7 loss to the Wolverines. In his ﬁ  rst season at Florida, Scarlett recorded 34 carries for 181 yards and one touchdown.
UF head coach Jim McElwain said he was 
proud of how Scarlett accepted the conse-quences of his actions. McElwain said Scar-lett will return to the team next season.
“I tell you,” McElwain said, “he’s a great 
kid and handled it the way you should han-dle it. Stood up, honest, and I’m proud of him for that.” Marijuana c harges may be dropped for Gator running backEmma Green / Alligator Staff
DRUMMING UP EXCITEMENT
Destinee Collins, a 25-year-old drummer for the cover band timesUp and a worker at Dough Religion 
Pizza, jams out to cover songs like “Brick House” on Wednesday night at the Oozoo Bar.
 SEE EPILOGUE,  PAGE 4It allows easy access to links
Scarlett
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Let it 
Glow-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature laser tag, a 
GloCade and a show from men-
talist Scott Xavier. The event will also feature two showings of the movie “The Martian” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free nachos during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 
Cards. Attendees must be current 
students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Toastmasters meets Tuesdays at 
UFTalking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in 
the Entomology Building, situ-
ated at 970 Natural Area Drive, Room 1031. Everyone is wel-come to attend and learn about Toastmasters’ excellent program of public speaking and leadership.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club 
invites you and your friends to its 
lessons and dances twice a week on Mondays and Fridays. The club has free lessons for beginners and intermediates open to every-one. On Monday nights, the club is at the Reitz Union Breezeway with lessons from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 8 p.m. to 
11 p.m. On Friday nights, they are 
at the Unified Training Center at 809 W. University Ave. with les-sons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. to mid-night. If you have any questions or would like to get involved, 
please find them on Facebook at 
facebook.com/groups/FLSDC. 
View personal collections at 
Collectors Day on SaturdayCelebrate the Florida Museum of Natural History’s 37th Collectors Day on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. This free, popular event has 
attracted collectors from across 
the region for more than 30 years. Enjoy a variety of personal col-lections and learn the history and context of these treasures. From sports and Beatles memorabilia to classic cars and antique cameras, chat with the collectors to discov-er collecting. For more informa-
tion, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/collec-
torsday or call 352- 273- 2061.
Florida Museum closed Sunday, 
Monday and Feb. 22- 24The Florida Museum of Natural History, including the Butterfly Rainforest exhibit, will be closed Sunday, Monday and Feb. 22 -24 
for preventative fumigation to 
protect its Lepidoptera collections and library resources. Collectors Day, scheduled for Saturday, and Volunteer Orientation, sched-uled for Jan. 13, will continue as planned. Please check flmnh.ufl.edu for updates, or call Paul Ramey at 352 -213- 0999 for more 
information.
Join UF’s second PechaKucha X 
Fulbright 20x20 event
PechaKucha 20x20 is a simple presentation format in which 20 slides are shown for 20 sec-onds each — presentations are seven minutes long in all. It will be held Jan. 26 at 5:30 
p.m. at the UF International 
Center. Presentations include “New Models for Ceramics: Recent Work” by Anna Calluori Holcombe from the UF School of Art + Art History; “The Mathematics of Organized Ant Behavior” by Jason R. Picardo from the UF department of chemi-
cal engineering; and “More than 
Two Centuries Vaccinating: Recent Advances on Vaccine Development” by Diana P. Rojas from the UF department of epide-miology. For more information, contact Professor Charlie Guy at clguy@ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 76
HIGH  70° LOW  55°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Jessica Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, 
  Michael Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga, Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,     
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks  Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
4  ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
@MelissaGomez004
Michael Hardwick started fighting for LG-
BTQ+ rights in 1986.
In Bowers v. Hardwick, the Supreme Court 
ruled against equal rights for gay men. About 
30 years later, Hardwick’s niece — Simone 
Chriss, a third-year UF law student — co-wrote 
an article explaining the history of same-sex marriage in the U.S.
Chriss, 25, and Danaya Wright, a UF law 
professor, co-wrote the article in Italy’s first journal on sexual orientation and gender iden-tity. The article discussed the Supreme Court’s decision in Obergefell v. Hodges, a landmark case in June 2015 that granted same-sex mar-riage as a fundamental right.
Roberto Virzo, a visiting professor from Ita-
ly, wrote in an email that he asked her to write the article because of her knowledge on gender law and rights of sexual minorities.
Wright said she wrote a few articles on the 
case but wanted Chriss to help with the article.
She spent five months working on the ar-
ticle, Chriss said. She researched the history of same-sex marriage, starting with her uncle’s case.  After the court ruling, the two narrowed the 
focus of the article to the progress of same-sex marriage in the U.S., she said.
“I think it’s important for people to see 
that this didn’t just happen overnight,” Chriss 
said. “I want people to understand how we got 
where we are today.”
Wright said Chriss focused on the details 
about the progress the U.S. has made on equal rights for same-sex couples.
Wright said they emailed back and forth, 
with her formatting the article and offering feedback.
She said it was interesting to write for a 
country whose legal system still has a long way to go in recognizing same-sex marriage.
“This gives them a roadmap about how we 
got to where we are,” she said.
She hopes it will help European countries create their own path to same-sex marriage equality, Wright said.
Chriss, who is openly gay, said she didn’t 
understand her uncle’s role in the 1986 Su-preme Court case when she was younger. 
Now, she said she understands the fight for 
equal rights needs to continue.
“It’s already being chipped away at little by 
little,” she said.
For same-sex couples in Italy, Chriss said 
she hopes the article provides a source of hope.
Virzo said he expects the European audi-
ence to pay attention to the article.
“Our hope is to shake the Italian ‘Parlamen-
to’ out of its apathy,” Virzo said. “Maybe our goal could be achieved at the end of this month. The Italian Parliament is expected to eventually adopt a law on same-sex partnership.”
To view the article visit articolo29.it/genius.UF law student, professor publish in Italian journal
TECHNOLOGY
Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
@ceostroff
Last Spring, Jonathan Katz 
had an idea for an app.
He envisioned an app that 
would allow students to post 
and complete simple jobs — an app he began designing with his roommate, Alex Schepps, soon 
after.
One year later, the two men 
and two other students, Ben 
Horowitz and Ben Devore, are looking to raise $15,000 to launch 
Qwerk at UF this March. Katz, 
21, said the app’s name is a com-bination of “quick” and “work.”
Students can post jobs to the 
free app for other students to pick up. The job could be as small as getting a cup of coffee.
Students write how much they 
are willing to pay for delivery and 
also pay the cost of the item, said 
Horowitz, a Washington Univer-sity in St. Louis entrepreneurship and marketing junior. Horowitz is helping with the 
app’s launch. 
When students want to take a 
job, they click a button that reads “put me to work.”
“If you’re on your way to the 
coffee shop, you can just scroll through,” the 21-year-old said. “Our big thing is, why not get paid for something you’re al-
ready doing?”
To use the app, students must 
sign up with a UF email, said 
Devore, a computer science and 
political science sophomore at 
George Washington University. 
After a job is completed, both 
students have to say it was on the app before money is transferred 
by credit.
Students who take a job can 
also take pictures of receipts if 
the price of an item was more 
than expected, the 19-year-old 
said.
The app cost about $5,000 to 
build over the last nine months, said Schepps, a UF accounting 
junior. They are still program-
ming the app, but hope to make it available by March.
The group is trying to raise 
the money to cover marketing ex-penses for the app, the 21-year-old said. 
So far they have raised about 
$1,500, with most of that coming from family and friends.
Currently the four are the only 
undergraduates at UF’s Innova-
tion Hub, Katz said. The Hub 
gives them an office space and mentors as they try to find inves-tors in their app.
UF’s size and location makes 
it the perfect place to launch the app, Horowitz said. 
In the future, they hope to 
expand the app to other Florida 
universities.
“It really is one of the best 
universities to do it,” he said.
Katz said he thinks students 
will use the app. Their video 
about the app has had more than 20,000 views.
“We want it to be used as a 
common phrase – ‘Why don’t 
you just Qwerk it?’” he said.UF students raising money for app
THE SUSPECT’S IDENTITY 
REMAINS UNKNOWN.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
@martindvassolo
Police locked down four Ala-
chua County schools Wednesday 
after an Alachua County man was 
shot and injured.
At about 9:40 a.m. Wednes-
day, an unidentified person shot 
76-year-old Ulysees Garrison in the 
13000 block of Northwest 155th 
Place, according to an Alachua Po-lice Department press release.
At about 10 a.m., after receiving 
a call from the man’s family, po-
lice locked down four schools near 
the shooting, said Alachua County Police spokesman Sgt. Jesse San-dusky. Alachua Elementary School, 
Irby Elementary School, A.L. Me-
bane Middle School and Santa Fe High School were locked down for about an hour and a half, Sandusky said.
“The schools were immediately 
put into lockdown since they were a mile within the incident,” he said.
Deputies and police dogs with 
the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office helped patrol the area, but the sus-pect’s identity remains unknown, 
according to the release.
Garrison, who was shot in his 
midsection, was quickly taken to 
UF Health Shands Hospital where 
he underwent surgery for non-life-
threatening injuries, according to the release.
“We’re looking over the evi-
dence and waiting to speak with, you know, the victim, once he is able to speak,” Sandusky said. “We’re still trying to identify the suspect.”Shooting prompts lock-
down of local schools
den, Austria and China.
Acevedo said Jennings cared about his 
students. He painted his office lilac after 
reading that the color was calming, she 
said.
“He was that person that you could go 
to,” said Acevedo, who graduated from UF 
in 2008 with a degree in music composi-
tion. “There was a safe space in his of-fice.”
When she heard he died, she said she 
immediately started calling friends.
“That night I couldn’t sleep,” said Ace-
vedo, a music theory doctoral student at Yale University.
Outside the classroom, Jennings had 
friends among UF’s faculty, said Kevin Sharpe, a UF associate piano professor.Sharpe said he started working at UF 
the same year Jennings did. They would practice their respective instruments in ad-jacent offices every morning. 
Other faculty members had to remind 
them to be quiet.    
He also said he remembers when Jen-
nings met his wife, Debbie. They were both UF faculty members and didn’t real-
ize they worked in the same building.
Sharpe said he played piano at Jen-
nings’ wedding. It was the happiest he had ever seen him.
“It was really love at first sight for the 
two of them,” he said. “It was like he was 
looking for this person his entire life.”
Jennings loved to be surrounded by musicians, Sharpe said. He will never for-get the smile Jennings had after seeing concerts.
A memorial concert for Jennings is be-
ing planned for this Spring and UF’s Col-lege of the Arts has established the Arthur Jennings Trombone scholarship in his honor, said Leah Spellman, the public re-lations and marketing manager for the Col-
lege of the Arts.
Sharpe said there will never be anyone 
else like Jennings.
“He’s the best friend that I have ever 
had,” Sharpe said. “His picture will always 
be on my wall.”EPILOGUE,  from pg 1He taught music at UF from 1985 to 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
Arthur Jennings poses for a photo with 
his trombone. From 1985 until he retired in Spring 2015, he taught trombone, eu-phonium, tuba and other music classes at the UF School of Music.
“The schools were immediately 
put into lockdown since they 
were a mile within the incident,”
Sgt. Jesse Sandusky
Alachua Police Department 
spokesmanIt focused on same-sex history
“He’s the best friend that I have ever had. His picture will always be on my wall.”
Kevin Sharpe
UF associate piano professorTHURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
AN ELECTIONS COMMITTEE 
MEMBER WAS ALSO ELECTED.
Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
@hunterewilliam
Santa Fe College Student Senate 
elected a new parliamentarian and a 
club senator onto its elections commit-
tee during its first Spring Senate meet-
ing.
The former parliamentarian, Manu 
Osorio, graduated at the end of Fall, 
leaving the seat vacant.
Senator Kane Ahern ran unopposed 
for the position and was unanimously 
elected by the chamber within minutes. Last semester, the chamber struggled to 
fill the position.
“As you can see, the reason we’re 
back here is because the person’s time 
who was last elected was short,” Ahern said, later adding he planned to be en-rolled at Santa Fe until Summer 2017.
Ahern said he ran for the position 
because he wanted to get more involved 
with Senate and Student Government. 
He promised to enforce Senate rules.
The chamber also voted 21-2 to elect 
Mala Nugent onto the elections commit-
tee in a landslide victory over her rival 
Greg Gorney.
“I honestly didn’t think I was going 
to (win),” Nugent said.
During her speech to senators on 
why she was running for the position, she struggled to think of what to say.
“I was very nervous,” she said.Several senators spoke up in support 
of her before the chamber voted. Long-time friend and fellow senator, Cody Brittain, called her a hard worker fit for the position.
“She is so dedicated and capable of 
doing what she is asked to do,” Brittain said.Santa Fe Senate elects 
parliamentarian
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
ALASKAN BEAUTY
Cheyenne Roth, left, an 18-year-old UF biochemistry and molecular biology freshman, and 
Isabella Sheffield, an 18-year-old UF wildlife ecology and conservation freshman, greet Ghost, a 2-year-old Alaskan Malamute and Siberian Husky mix, on Wednesday afternoon.
CAMPUS
Cecilia Mazanec
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art re-
ceived two grants for an upcoming exhibit.
They received $55,000 from the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts on Dec. 18 and $88,000 from the Andy Warhol Foun-dation Dec. 15. The awards will go toward the exhibit Aftermath: The Fallout of War – America & the Middle East, which opens Aug. 16.The funding will help the museum have 
a larger exhibit and invite guest speakers, 
said Carol McCusker, the curator of pho-
tography for the Harn.
“It allows us to be as creative as pos-
sible and to create the best exhibition pos-
sible,” she said.
The exhibit’s photos will show the af-
termath of war, McCusker said. Photos will 
show students and Gainesville residents 
that war has long-lasting impacts, she said.
“It addresses the aftermath of war, which is the moments either right after an 
armed conflict, into the months and years 
after,” she said.
The photographers are both photojour-
nalists and artists, McCusker said. 
The Harn will produce a collection of 
essays about war to accompany the exhib-it, she said. 
It will feature Dexter Filkins, a Pulitzer 
Prize-winning author; Phil Klay, a writer 
for the New York Times and The Wall 
Street Journal; and a few other writers. McCusker said she will also write an essay about the exhibit.
Filkins, a UF alumnus, will give a lec-
ture about the exhibit next Fall, she said.
Mia Frisiello, a UF political science and 
linguistics freshman, said she is excited to see the exhibit.
“I think it’s awesome because it’s re-
ally important for people to understand the 
lives of civilians, because they often focus 
on the soldiers and people fighting,” the 
18-year-old said.Future U.S. & Middle East exhibit at Harn funded by grants
Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
mkornfield@alligator.org
@MerylKornfield
UF students can now access 
parts of the Reitz Union.
The area from the ground floor 
through the second floor is open to students, said Eddie Daniels, the executive director of the Re-itz. But, the Orange and Brew and Wing Zone are not yet open.
The Reitz will announce an 
opening date when the fire mar-shall says the building can open, he said. The construction, which has been going on for about two years, will cost about $75 million, Daniels said. The ribbon-cutting ceremony will be Feb. 20.
The fire marshall has inspected 
the building since Dec. 16, Dan-iels said.
“The system is being tested to 
make sure everything is perfect,” he said.The renovated building will 
house offices for Student Govern-ment, Multicultural and Diversity Affairs, Student Activities and Involvement, and other student groups, Daniels said.
Lloren Foster, the executive di-
rector of Multicultural and Diver-sity Affairs, said he thinks having these organizations next to each other will allow for better interac-tion.
“You have no idea how excited 
we are to move to the premier building on campus,” Foster said.
Rachel Sharp, a UF history ju-
nior, said she is looking forward to saying goodbye to her cramped space in the temporary Student Activities and Involvement office.  
“I’m really excited and eager to 
see the new space because every-thing is kind of jumbled right now with our materials,” the 20-year-old said.Students can access bottom two floors of Reitz Union
Alligator File Photo 
The main foyer of the new expansion to the Reitz Union, seen on Oct. 29, was designed with UF’s mascot in mind. The railings on all three floors have alligator-shaped holes cut out of them, and the wooden ceiling is patterned to mimic the underbelly of a gator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnLCD Soundsystem 
reunites, we reflect 
on its influence
We here in the Opinions corner of the Alligator have 
a profound respect for music. However, our love for the medium is generally not enough to overcome the realities of a daily student newspaper, where the witty commentary and strong emotions of the lone editorial 
are generally reserved for that day’s top stories, NOT the passions of music obsessives. So it was to our surprise and excitement that the reformation of LCD Soundsystem not only generated head-lines but did so in several prominent publications: Hey, if it’s good enough for Time magazine, the L.A. Times and The Guard-ian, it’s good enough for us.
There is a strong likelihood that many of our readers have 
no idea who or what an LCD Soundsystem is, much less why their reunion would generate nearly 900 news headlines (not a 
hyperbole — Google it). With that in mind, we’ll try to break 
down their appeal as simply as possible: Do you like rock mu-sic, specifically that which borrows heavily from Berlin-era David Bowie and post-punk? Do you like to dance, preferably by aban-doning all pretenses of finesse and instead indulging in your most awkward impulses? Do you enjoy lyrics that delicately toe the line between overly self-absorbed and movingly populist? Then you’ll like LCD Soundsystem, who over the course of the aughts successfully convinced the rock kids that it was okay to like Daft 
Punk and showed the dance kids the appeal of rocking out in a 
dirty basement.
“This is all well and good,” you may find yourself saying, “but 
why the hell do they warrant the honor and privilege that come with being the subject of an Alligator editorial?” Stick with us.
The band has gained widespread recognition for three (wide-
ly simplified) reasons. One, they’re great. Two, they essentially paved the path for the dance-rock revival that is currently domi-nating North American musical discourse. If you need evidence, 
look no further than 2015’s smash hits (“Uptown Funk,” which 
requires no introduction) and indie darlings (Tame Impala’s “Currents”) alike.
Finally, the band’s self-imposed end, now-subsequent re-
union and musical stylings speak to where we find ourselves as a culture. Let’s be honest with ourselves: Musically, at least as far as pop is concerned, there isn’t much unexplored territory left. The same axiom is equally applicable to “the great rock band narrative” that has been firmly encoded over the last 50 years. 
Band bursts onto the scene, changes thousands of lives, breaks 
up and reemerges when the critical consensus has been reached and the mortgages need to be paid off. It’s a beautiful, unoriginal story that has been, and will be, told time and again across sev-eral genres.
What’s more, the proliferation of the Internet and social me-
dia has produced a culture wherein nothing ever really dies, and everything happens all at once. Take your pick of recently regurgitated pop cultural staples, whether they be blockbusters 
like “Star Wars: The Force Awakens,” or the upcoming revival of 
“Full House” (ugh).  LCD Soundsystem knew this and produced songs that resembled what might happen if you forced the Kraft-werk robots, The Whispers and The Stooges in a room together, in the process creating THE American 21st-century band.
LCD Soundsystem showed the world that a band could be stu-
pidly self-aware of their place in culture and still produce compel-ling music. You can be as self-aware as you want, but sometimes you need to shut up and play the hits. We’re glad to have them 
back.
Iowa caucus and the (hopeful) fall of Donald Trump
Ever since the announcement of his cam-
paign last summer, Donald Trump has been an unstoppable force in politics. 
Although most of his speeches are just 
ramblings about whatever controver-
sial topic he feels like discussing that day, with nary a hint of a coherent policy in sight, 
many of his supporters like that he “speaks his 
mind.” Trump has had the privilege of high poll numbers and media attention despite his lack of experience in public service. But Trump’s cam-paign now faces a challenge that has felled many presi-
dential campaigns in the past: the Iowa caucus.  
The Iowa caucus, which is on the first of February, 
rarely predicts the nominee for the party, but it marks 
the formal start of the process by which prospective can-
didates are cleaned out. Candidates can no longer use 
polls as support when clear winners and losers begin to emerge. This is a huge issue for Trump, a man who cites his poll numbers like they are law. However, as history has illustrated time and again, the science of polling, es-
pecially during an election season, is not the most reli-
able. What will happen when the polls say Trump is win-ning, but voters in Iowa choose someone else?  
During campaign season, a candidate’s ground opera-
tion in key states is just as important as a candidate’s position on issues and his or her poll numbers. Without the proper channels and influence to motivate voters to go out and vote, especially when it is not even the gen-eral election, the chances of mobilizing supporters are 
very slim. Campaigning is a far cry from rallies where 
individuals are actively seeking the opportunity to meet these political candidates and hear them speak.
According to most reports from Iowa, Donald Trump’s 
actual campaign is not all that well developed. If these reports are correct, it will be Ted Cruz’s campaign that looks destined to take Iowa. If this is the case, it could mean the beginning of the end of the Trump campaign.  
Although the idea of Donald Trump losing 
support has come up after every controversial statement, this time may actually prove to be substantial. The loss of Iowa represents some-thing much worse to the Trump campaign 
than controversy: defeat. As we all know, the 
worldview Trump so proudly espouses oper-ates primarily by distinguishing people into 
two categories: winners and losers. This presents an interesting question as to what will happen when the 
billionaire finds himself on the wrong side of his own 
rhetoric. Trump can try to write off another candidate’s victory, but a caucus win in Iowa represents the support of actual people going out and voting. This is not easy 
to write off.
At that point, a loss for the Trump campaign would 
illustrate that the emperor truly has no clothes. Trump 
“speaking his mind” on issues is not a solution to any of the issues this country and the world are dealing with. 
The complex political environment we live in can no lon-
ger call for “us versus them” solutions and the painting of a broad brush of religions or minorities. This no longer is, and never has been, a successful tool in actual, sub-
stantive policymaking.   
Regardless of the fate of Trump’s campaign, it will no 
doubt cast a long shadow on American politics. It has 
highlighted the establishment’s problems with effectively solving crises relevant to the American people. It has also 
allowed people who have no place seriously considering 
a presidential stint (like Carly Fiorina and Ben Carson) to share a debate stage with governors and senators. Trump will shape how politicians act for years to come, 
but hopefully, he won’t be one of them.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science senior. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.orgDear UF students,
For every credit hour you take this semester, you will 
pay $46.21 in local fees.[1] These fees help provide many 
services: student health care services, student organiza-
tions, transportation, athletic events and more. They in-clude a transportation fee, athletic fee, services and activi-ties fee and a health fee. While tuition fees are fixed, local 
fees are set by a committee each year. They have become 
a major source of funding for school administration and Student Government agencies.
As student senators, we are entrusted with being your 
representatives in Student Government. While we under-
stand how important these fees are for the success of our 
great university, we also believe you deserve to pay a fair share of the cost no more, no less. However, every year the fees have grown larger and larger as administration 
and SG asked for more and more money (see graph).[2] In 
the past, when SG agencies and administration asked for increasing amounts of money, the local fee committee – made up of your SG representatives and faculty – granted their requests. While most of the expense was necessary, 
some of it was excessive (SG officer salaries, for example).
This past year, when the University Athletics Adminis-
tration asked for more money to increase the athletic fee 
by 40 percent, the committee unanimously voted to deny 
their request. After reviewing UAA’s proposal, it was de-
termined that UAA’s budgeting practices enabled them to continue operating without raising fees on every student. The success of UF’s football season will no doubt raise the revenue they needed, thus they did not warrant an 
increase in fees.
The UAA increased the cost of football ticket prices 
by $5 per game. Although the increased price of football 
tickets is not an intended consequence of the committee’s 
decision, it gives students a choice. Students can pay an increased ticket price voluntarily, rather than be forced to pay for a fee increase — something that affects all stu-
dents, regardless of whether they attend football games.
Please know at the end of the day, this is less about 
a particular party and more about a trend of increasing fees. It is important that your education is as affordable as 
possible, and you are allowed to make the decision about 
where to spend your money. We hope this letter helps you better understand our efforts to help you do so.
Sources[1] “Tuition and Fees (2015-2016).” Finance and Ac-
counting. University of Florida, 7 Aug 2015. Web. 29 Dec 2015.
[2] “Local Fees Breakdown” document that was used by 
the Local Fee Committee.
Sincerely,
Amanda Nelson (Access Party Senator), Nardin Derias 
(Access Party Minority Party Leader), Praveen Varanasi 
(Access Party Senator), Chizoba Ezenwa (Access Party Senator) and Jasmine Haddaway (Access Party Senator)Letter to the EditorTHURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
If you’re one of the lucky people who got a drone as a holiday gift, don’t strap on your flying goggles just yet.
UF has implemented interim proce-
dures for the use of unmanned aircraft 
systems, or drones, aimed at protecting the safety of those on our campus as well as 
aircraft flying over or near campus.
In short, any UF employee or student 
who wants to operate a drone as part of 
their university employment or a univer-sity program must first receive a Certifi-
cate or Waiver of Authorization from the Federal Aviation Administration. 
More information is available at the Research Compliance web-
site: research.ufl.edu/faculty-
and-staff/research-compliance/federal-aviation-administration-faa-requirement.html.
Any third party or hobby-
ist who wants to use a drone or model aircraft over university property must receive approval through UF’s Environmental Health and 
Safety office and provide proof of FAA ap-proval. Third parties and hobby-
ists also must be under a contract that holds the university harm-
less from any claims of harm to 
people or damage to university property and provides insurance as required by UF Environmen-
tal Health and Safety. For more 
information, call Environmental Health and Safety at 352-392-1591.
Anyone who wants to operate a drone 
to record or transmit photos or videos must take all reasonable measure to avoid areas normally considered private.
Finally, any use of a drone must comply 
with FAA regulations governing use within five miles of an airport or two miles of a heliport. UF’s main campus is within both. That generally excludes drone flights on 
the UF campus without specific FAA ap-
proval.
Full details are available online at ehs.
ufl.edu/programs/rm/uas_procedures.
Curtis Reynolds
UF Vice President for Business AffairsPlanning on flying your own drone? Read this before you’re cleared for takeoffGuest column
Curtis 
Reynolds
Speaking Out96-97
97-9898-99
99-0000-01
01-0202-03
04-0505-06
06-0707-08
08-0909-10
10-1111-12
12-1313-14
14-1515-16AMOUNT IN DOLLARS
YEARS RANGING FROM 1996 TO 2016101520253035404550STUDENT FEESKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Meet the Avenue editors
See page 9 for embarrassing headshots.What’s inside: 
Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game: “Jessica Jones, ” pg 12.The Avenue’s T op 10 2015 hip-hop releases, pg 10.HE HAS TOURED WITH 
LENNY KRAVITZ AND THE 
ROLLING STONES.
Veronica Garcia
Avenue Writer
American funk and jazz saxo-
phonist, ﬂ  utist and vocalist Karl 
Denson will return to Gainesville 
Wednesday with his band, Karl 
Denson’s Tiny Universe.
The jazz band is at the end of 
its Fantastic Fall Tour and will 
perform one of its ﬁ  nal shows in 
Gainesville. The band’s tour regu-larly holds over 150 shows annu-ally.
“This is Karl Denson’s ﬁ  rst 
time at High Dive, and ﬁ  rst time in Gainesville in about 15 years,” Pat Lavery, owner of Glory Days Presents, wrote in an email. “This 
is a very rare appearance for him 
in the area.”
Denson’s last experience in 
Gainesville marked the beginning of a craze.
“I bought a straw cowboy 
hat and a couple of guys in the band said it looked cool, so I went through about a year or two 
wearing cowboy hats because of 
Gainesville,” Denson said.
The band will perform at High 
Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave.
Doors open at 8 p.m., and the 
show begins at 9 p.m. Tickets can be purchased for $21 at the door, and advanced tickets can be pur-
chased for $18 on ticketﬂ  y.com.
Lavery considers Denson’s 
sound a “jazz fusion,” mixing el-
ements of funk and rock.
“It is more in the jam band 
world,” Lavery said. “Karl is a world-class musician and is one of the foremost sax players in the world.” 
The artist began playing music 
at an early age when he joined his junior high school’s band, which prompted the start of his exten-sive music career.
“It was a good school program 
back in the day when they were helping kids play instruments all the time, and I guess I enjoyed 
it,” Denson said. “I never thought 
about doing it professionally until I entered college.”
Denson decided to make mu-
sic into a career in college, but 
he wasn’t in it for the money — 
he didn’t make money for a long time, he said.
“I probably made more money 
in high school playing in wedding bands, than I did all through col-lege,” Denson said.
Upon graduating in the 1980s, 
he found his ﬁ  rst road gig work-ing with American television host and producer Don Cornelius from Soul Train.
“After Soul Train, I had a re-
ally great jazz gig in Orange County playing traditional jazz 
a few nights a week, my dream 
job, which I was really happy,” Denson said. “I ended up work-ing with Lenny Kravitz in 1989.”
The musician was also a mem-
ber of the Lenny Kravitz “Let Love Rule”-era group for about four years, which helped launch his career.
“Lenny Kravitz is a great guy 
and super funny,” Denson said. “That was a really nice time and it kind of got me established on 
my life too, which I thank him for 
that.”
Lenny Kravitz helped him get 
his spot on the Rolling Stones’ 2015 Zip Code Tour. Upon the 
conclusion of his current tour, 
Denson will return on stage with the Rolling Stones in South Amer-ica.
“My favorite memory with the 
Rolling Stones is just every night watching the show start,” Denson said. “Being on a stadium and seeing the whole thing gear up is 
awesome.”
Denson shared a few lessons 
he learned during his many years 
in the industry.
“It’s just about work. When 
you hang out with people like Lenny and the Rolling Stones, you just know they just work hard, and that’s kind of what you 
learn,” he said. “You just have to 
get in there and put your work in and learn how to be yourself.”THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Karl Denson’s Tiny Universe to perform at High Dive 
ABOVE:
Karl Denson is returning to 
Gainesville with his band, Karl Denson’s Tiny Universe. The jazz saxophonist will perform on Wednesday at High Dive.
LEFT:
Denson has toured with Len-ny Kravitz and toured with the Rolling Stones in 2015.
Courtesy to the Alligator
“I had some cool experiences 
last time I came, I also 
started my cowboy hat phase. 
I bought a straw cowboy hat 
and a couple of guys in the 
band said it looked cool, so 
I went through about a year 
or two wearing cowboy hats 
because of Gainesville.”
Karl Denson
musicianTHURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
MEET THE EDITORS/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219  /uni2219   /uni2219   
Laura Gomez is a 21-year-
old journalism senior and 
the Avenue editor at the Alligator. Before being Avenue editor, she was editor of the Avenue, and before being editor of the Avenue, she would edit the 
Avenue. 
So with it being her third 
and ﬁ  nal semester as Avenue 
editor, she wants to make it the best it’s ever been. Send her your strangest story ideas at lgomez@alligator.org. The weirder, the better. 
As a proud arts junkie, 
Laura hopes to continue her career in journalism writing for the features section of the local newspaper in her hometown of Miami. Meanwhile, she plans to spend her free time stalking celebrities at the famous Club LIV. 
Justin Bieber, if you’re 
reading this, this is for you. If you’re not Justin Bieber and you want to talk food, arts, music — or complain about how our binge drinking games may damn near send you to the grave — tweet me.
  @_lauramgomez
Kirsten Chuba is a 
20-year-old junior jour-
nalism major from Los 
Angeles, California, and is 
the assistant editor of the Avenue this semester. 
She is interested in 
sports and entertainment writing and hopes to one day work at People Maga-zine. She plays water polo at UF and also loves to 
play basketball and wake-
board. Florida football is another one of her pas-sions, and she loves noth-
ing more than a Saturday 
night game in the Swamp. She always has a bag of Sour Patch Kids on hand and travels almost exclu-
sively by scooter. 
When she’s not writ-
ing at the Alligator, she’s 
busy getting way too in-
vested in “The Bachelor” 
and stalking celebrities on social media. 
For story ideas, email 
her at kchuba@alligator.
org and follow on Twitter.
       @kirstenchubaTHURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016
2015 will go down as one of the best 
years for not only hip-hop, but for music in 
general. We barely went two or three weeks without a new album being released. With all these great artists putting out tons of new music, it is time to release my top 10 albums of the year. 
If you don’t know by now, I almost exclu-
sively write on hip-hop and R&B. While there are other great albums in different genres that were released this year (Tame Impala’s “Currents” and The Internet’s “Ego Death,” just to name a few), I will be ranking my top 
10 albums in the hip-hop and R&B catego-
ries. Feel free to debate my list with me on Twitter.
#10: The Weeknd
“Beauty Behind The Madness”Listing my top nine albums is easy; it’s 
deciding which album deserves to get the 
No. 10 spot that is so difﬁ  cult. But then 
again, The Weeknd had a remarkable year with one gold and three platinum singles from a No. 1 album that has over 800,000 album sales to date. 
So having “Beauty Behind The Mad-
ness” at No. 10 is fair. The Weeknd transi-
tioned to a more pop sound, and it clearly 
worked out well. Top 10 for sure.
#9: Lupe Fiasco
“Tetsuo & Youth”
Lupe Fiasco’s ﬁ  fth studio album was re-
leased early in 2015, and it remained one 
of the better albums throughout the whole year. 
“Tetsuo & Youth” is great because of 
songs like “Mural,” which is arguably one of the best songs of 2015, with eight min-utes of straight bars and no hook or bridge. 
Fiasco’s raps combined with his dope 
beats, and of course the four “seasonal” in-terludes, all come together to form a work of art.
#8: A$AP Rocky“At.Long.Last.A$AP”Over two years later, A$AP Rocky followed up “Long.Live.A$AP” with “A.L.L.A.” From start to ﬁ  nish, Rocky’s smooth voice and exceptional verses cap-
tivate us with both up-tempo songs, like 
“M’$,” and slower, trippy songs, like “L$D.” 
The album has impressive features com-
ing from Future, MIA, Kanye West, Miguel and even Rod Stewart. “At.Long.Last.A$AP” is surely one of the best albums this year.
#7: Meek Mill“Dreams Worth More Than Money”
I know what you’re thinking: “Drake 
ended Meek Mill at OVO Fest! How can 
you say he had one of the best albums?” 
Forget about that for a second, because “Dreams Worth More Than Money” is cra-zy good. Every song on this album is great and, even though the features are on point, 
some of the better songs on this album are 
the ones where he’s solo.
 Meek Mill is one of the best and “DW-MTM” deserves the No. 7 spot.
#6: Mac Miller
“GO:OD AM”
Back in September, I wrote about how 
I never really listened to Mac Miller be-fore this album, and I suggested you lis-
ten. Mac made a really solid album with 
“GO:OD AM.” The album’s tracklisting just feels right. Mac ﬂ  oats over every song and makes it sound effortless. With only a handful of features, Mac Miller alone gives 
us more than enough to label this a top 10 
album.
#5: Future
“Dirty Sprite 2”
Future was, without a doubt, the hottest 
rapper of 2015 and had the best run a rap-per could have by dropping three mixtapes and a solo album in less than a calendar 
year. 
What’s most impressive is Future had 
only one feature coming from Drake on “Where Ya At.” With banger after banger, 
“DS2” is an easy top ﬁ  ve album of the year.
#4: Rae Sremmurd“SremmLife”With many different rap albums com-
ing out in 2015, people began to seriously 
argue over what real hip-hop is. While I 
could go on for hours about this, I’ll keep it short: There are different types of hip-hop, and it doesn’t make sense to label it all as the same. 
Nobody is going to be playing Joey 
Bada$$ or Nas in the club or at a party, be-cause people don’t want to listen to “real” hip-hop all the time. Most people would 
rather be dabbing to “March Madness” or 
pretty much anything off “SremmLife.” 
There’s a time and place for certain 
artists and certain types of rap. Don’t be that “real” hip-hop head and just enjoy 
“SremmLife” for what it is: an album full 
of dope songs and fun hooks. If you doubt Rae Sremmurd’s talent, then I suggest you go watch their 20-minute freestyle on Tim Westwood’s radio show.
#3: Big Sean“Dark Sky Paradise”
Big Sean has been a fairly consistent 
artist so far in his career and he’s made 
some good music, but he ﬁ  nally got over 
the hump to solidify his spot as one of the great rappers of today. 
“Dark Sky Paradise” is darker than his 
last albums, and it’s been his best project 
to date. Big Sean is one of the better lyri-
cists and can body a variety of songs from “IDFWU” to “One Man Can Change The World.” “DSP” is absolutely perfect.
#2: Kendrick Lamar“To Pimp A Butterﬂ  y”
Kendrick Lamar ﬁ  nally released his 
sophomore album after nearly two and 
a half years. To be completely honest, I 
wasn’t really feeling this album when I ﬁ  rst listened. But, after giving it several more complete listens, it quickly became one of my favorites. From “Wesley’s Theory” to “King Kunta” to “Alright,” “To Pimp 
A Butterﬂ  y” can be listened to whenever, 
whether you’re in a chill mood or trying to turn up. 
The problem people may have is they 
expect an artist to make the same music forever and don’t understand artists need to progress and make different music or else they’ll fall off. It’s deﬁ  nitely possible for an artist to progress but continue to 
make great music, and that’s exactly what 
Lamar did. “To Pimp A Butterﬂ  y” is a mas-terpiece.
#1: Travis Scott“Rodeo”Ever since “Days Before Rodeo” dropped 
in August of 2014, I have been hyping up “Rodeo” and trying to get people to listen 
to Travis Scott if they weren’t already. 2015 
was the year that Travis Scott ﬁ  nally blew up and received mainstream attention. He had his debut album released, toured with The Weeknd while simultaneously build-ing a reputation for having the wildest con-
certs (which I can attest to). He continues 
to shine on other artists’ songs, whether producing or rapping. 
The production on “Rodeo” is out of 
this world, and Scott’s ﬂ  ow and use of au-totune mix perfectly. Combine those two factors with the list of artists featured and you get the best album of the year.
TOP 10 HIP-HOP ALBUMS OF 2015 ff the Record
Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016
Laura Gomez
Avenue Writer
When Cristobal Gonzalez was 10, his fa-
ther taught him how to play guitar in Chile. 
At age 23, the guitarist furthers his roots and shares a fresh blend of cumbia rock with Los Panas 352.
With an appreciation for the music he 
grew up on, the singer-songwriter wanted to introduce some of his musical roots to Gainesville. That’s when he approached lo-cal musician and co-founder of The Jam, Eduardo Arenas Reyes, with an idea to start an up-tempo cumbia band in Gainesville.
“We saw space for a Latin group,” Gon-
zalez said. “We saw there was room for one.”
Along with having performed at several 
local venues, the band has also played for UF’s Hispanic Student Association and His-panic Latino Affairs.
“We deﬁ  nitely have Hispanic fans. 
We’ve done house parties for a bunch of Latin people,” Gonzalez said.
With a high-energy show that combines 
big horns, drums and guitar and bass, the band started with the mentality of sharing music people can dance to.
“Now it’s changed a little bit,” Gonzalez 
said. “We still want to have that dancing element for sure, but we want to have a little bit more body to the song — a little bit more musicianship.”
The band originated as a cover band for 
Chico Trujillo, a Chilean band that com-
bines elements of cumbia, reggae, rock 
and other styles. The band also draws in-ﬂ  uences from salsa legends like Hector La-voe and Joe Arroyo. Now, Gonzalez writes original music for the band.
While the majority of the band’s songs 
are in Spanish, Gonzalez said he’s working on writing English material.
Gonzalez said the boys were “just chilling, having a beer” when they came up with their band’s name. “Los Panas” means “the bros” in Spanish.
“We were just thinking about what 
the band’s about and we’re all from Gainesville,” he said.
So they agreed on Gainesville’s area 
code: 352.
The band will be performing at 9 p.m. 
Thursday at The Jam, situated at 817 W. University Ave. Tickets are available for $5 at the door.
Joining Los Panas 352 on stage are 
psychedelic beach goths Mantra Love and Miami-based band Sunghosts, which the band played with in Gainesville last year.
Gonzalez calls their live show a musi-
cal experience, with a lot of dancing and dynamic changes from cumbia to reggae.
“(It) makes you wanna dance, makes 
you wanna chug your beer,” he said. “Get 
lit, basically.”
In July, the band shared the stage with 
reggae artist Pato Banton, which Gonzalez 
said might have been their best show yet.
“We had a huge crowd and the energy 
was off the roof,” he said.
When asked one word that best de-
scribes the band’s live show, the musician called it “lit.”
“That’s the mindset of the band,” he 
said. “Go big.”Cumbia rock band brings fresh latin music to GNV scene
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gainesville-based cumbia rock band Los Panas 352 will perform on Thursday 
at The Jam, 817 W. University Ave.
By Katherine Dagand
Avenue Writer 
Marvel fans rejoice: There’s a 
new heroine in town and she’s 
hardcore. Jessica Jones is the most recent character to enter the Marvel Cinematic Universe with 
a 13-episode series on Netﬂ  ix, 
released Nov. 20. The series fol-lows the same nitty-gritty, dark essence the ﬁ  rst Netﬂ  ix-Marvel collaboration “Daredevil” was ﬁ  lmed in, and just like the for-mer, “Jessica Jones” does not disappoint.
Jessica Jones (Krysten Ritter) 
got her abilities through a tragic accident, but she doesn’t go around ﬂ  aunting them. Instead, she’s a private investigator who helps civilians and others with her special powers. The series 
rids itself of the traditional su-
perhero with a cape and mask and instead gave Jones a leather jacket, ripped-up jeans and a bad attitude.
Spend the end of syllabus 
week staying in with Ms. Jones and a bottle of your favorite alco-holic beverage to keep you warm 
during these cold nights.
Take a sip…
 When someone says 
Kilgrave
 When Jessica makes a 
sarcastic comment
 When Jessica disrespects 
Pam
 When someone does 
what Kilgrave tells them 
to do
 Whenever Jessica gives 
orders
Take a shot…
 During every ﬂ  ashback When someone tells Trish 
they loved her as “Patsy”
 When Jessica uses her 
powers
 When someone mentions 
“the green man”
Finish your drink…
 When you ﬁ  nd out how 
Jessicaʼs parents died
 When Jessica tries to make 
things better but makes 
everything worse
 When  Luke  and  Jessica  
have  an  “encounter”Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
On Friday, Gainesville will show 
off two things it is best known for: 
its local art scene and its nature.
The Gainesville Arts and Parks 
Foundation Showcase will be held at the Historic Thomas Center from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. and will highlight some of the city’s best art, parks and programs.
Gainesville Arts and Parks Foun-
dation, Inc. will host the event. The organization was formed in June 2015 to advocate and fundraise for the City of Gainesville Parks, Rec-
reation and Cultural Affairs Depart-
ment (PRCA).
Alicia Antone, Development 
and Partnership Program Coordi-
nator for PRCA, said the showcase 
aims to introduce the foundation to 
the community and invite citizens 
to become involved in the depart-ment’s parks and recreational ini-tiatives.
“It raises the awareness of the 
enormous and inﬁ  nite, if you will, amount of art, culture and recre-ation that is available in Gainesville which many people may or may 
not know,” Antone said. “For in-
stance, we (PRCA) have 88 parks 
in the city of Gainesville and we manage over 3,400 acres of land every day.”
The showcase will feature mu-
sic by local folk and Celtic rock band Weeds of Eden, as well as a performance by the Expressions Learning Arts Academy children’s orchestra, Antone said. There will also be a silent auction, tree give-aways and a signing by Gainesville 
Chef Bert Gill for his book “Pickled, 
Fried and Fresh.”
Local artists will also be a big 
part of the showcase, including 
Liza Kholodkova, a mechanical 
engineering graduate from UF who 
developed a robot that can draw murals.
Kholodkova developed the 
robot, which she calls Botsy Be-
Drawn, in May after ﬁ  nishing her 
degree. Painting and drawing had long been part of her life, she said, and the Gainesville entrepreneur-
ship atmosphere inspired her to 
combine her passions for art and 
engineering.
“I created Botsy, a drawing tool 
in the form of a robot, that helps 
users to draft and outline vector im-
ages quickly and accurately on ver-
tical surfaces,” Kholodkova said. “This greatly speeds up the time of creating a custom hand-painted 
mural and allows anyone to cus-
tomize their home, ofﬁ  ce or busi-
ness with beautiful artworks.”
At the showcase, Kholodkova 
will do a live demonstration of Bot-
sy’s drawing skills while answering 
questions and looking for new mu-
ral ideas. She will also be putting some of Botsy’s previous works up for sale in the silent auction.
“Art has always been part of hu-
man culture, and events like these add a little piece to motivate people and shape our community to create and inspire,” she said.
The showcase will be an impor-
tant debut for the Gainesville Arts and Parks (GAP) Foundation, Inc., 
which allows the city to “alterna-
tively fund projects in the budget that is not normally covered in a 
actual budget year,” Antone said.
The GAP Foundation will also 
be kicking off its ﬁ  rst annual fun-
draising drive at the showcase, 
which aims to raise $10,000 this 
year. 
These donations, along with 
larger grants the foundation hopes 
to acquire, will be used to renovate 
Gainesville’s parks and facilities 
over the next few years.
“Many of them were built in 
the ‘50s and ‘60s and are old and 
certainly do need to have upgrades 
or facility improvements,” Antone 
said.
Beyond building and park reno-
vations, this would also include 
more art programs, culture and en-
vironmental after-school programs, 
summer camps and art gallery talks 
offered by the city.
With the showcase, Antone 
said, the department hopes to make Gainesville citizens into “champi-
ons” for the city’s improved parks, 
recreation and culture.  
“When we think about parks, 
we typically don’t think about the 
value that  it adds to the commu-nity and the quality of life… you’re 
going for walks, you’re taking your 
dog out, you’re relieving stress… 
even just reading or working in a stress-free environment,” Antone said.City to showcase local art, parks
Robot to draw muralTHURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Avail Aug 1st. 3BR/3BA nice house, 9 blocks 
from campus. Wood floors, W/D incl, pri-vate backyard. $1150/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. Call or text 352-339-2342. More houses at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 1-12-15-18-2
AVAIL AUG 1ST 4BR/2BA, 10 blks from cam-pus. Nice house, wood floors, W/D provided, etc. $1550/mo, 1105 NW 10th Ave, Text or call 352-339-2342. More houses available at www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com  1-8-15-2-2
AVAIL AUG 1ST 4BR/2BA big, nice house with big backyard. Plus full size hot tab, all ame-nities, plus W/D Text or call 352-339-2342. $1600/mo. 3413 NE 8th Ave. More houses at www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-8-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
 
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       1-6-15-36-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-
ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14Thorough cleaners needed with reliable cars and willing to drive to Williston, Jonesville ,morriston, and around Gainesville. Homes/apartments are cleaned 7days 8-5 and of-fices 7days 5p- until finished. weekly pay & 8.25/hr. Must pass a background check and drug test. Please call 352-214-0868 if inter-ested..    1-8-5-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10 hr + INCENTIVE + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
Apply at https://jobs.ufl.edu/
4-20-71-14Sun Country Sports is now hiring
coaches for cheerleading, recreational & 
team gymnastics & more!  Apply today at 
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.     1-11-
15-5-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-15-15-9-14
Experienced Cook Wanted
Cafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
Medical Office Assistant
PT for doctor's office. Experience preferred. 
Email resume to: drpohani@gmail.com    
1-12-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Event NoticesHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida safety Keanu Neal 
declared for the NFL Draft. Read the story on pg. 17By Alejandro López
Alligator Writer
@ajlb95
Good coaching changes everything.
It maximizes talent. It fosters camaraderie. It calms nerves.Coaching can lead a good team to great-
ness and lead the greats to transcend their craft.
But what happens when a great squad 
loses its coach?It’s no secret that UF’s gymnastics team 
holds a place among the all-time best. 
Coming off of its third national champi-
onship in as many years, the Gators have a chance to do what only two other schools have done in the 34-year history of the NCAA women’s gymnastics: four-peat.
For a program that has already attained 
dynastic status, 2016 is shaping up as the next step. 
It could be the year in which the Gators 
join the 1982-1985 Utah Red Rocks and the 
2005-2008 Georgia Bulldogs at the pinnacle of their sport.
The major players 
largely remain the same.
 Bridget Sloan returns 
for her final year and Alex 
McMurtry returns to full health following a nag-ging back ailment that robbed her of her ability to compete in her stron-
gest event: the floor.
But their coach? Gone.
Rhonda Faehn — former Olympian, head 
coach of 13 years and the architect respon-
sible for nine top-five finishes at the NCAA tournament — is out, resigning in order to become senior vice president of USA Gym-nastics.
In her stead comes Jenny Rowland. 
Auburn’s associate head coach for three 
years, the former USA National Team mem-
ber is an unproven commodity in the col-legiate head coaching realm.
The Florida job will be her first such po-
sition.
To an outsider, this spells trouble.But to the athletes? Things couldn’t be going better.
“I think we’ve made a great transition 
with Jenny,” McMurtry — two-time All-
American and the quickest Gator to post a 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida track and field teams ranked in top-10
The men's team is ranked No. 1 and teh women's team si ranked No. 6 in the 
preseason indoor USTFCCCA National T eam Rankings.THE GATORS HAVE LOST 
TWO OF THEIR LAST 
THREE GAMES.
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
Some complain that the Tennes-
see orange is ugly, but it wasn’t the 
ugliest thing on the court Wednes-
day night. 
Florida traveled north to Knox-
ville, Tennessee, on Wednesday 
night for its first Southeastern Con-
ference road game of the season, 
and the Gators went ice cold.
The Volunteers outplayed Flori-
da on both ends of the floor en route to a 83-69 drubbing of a UF team 
that, from the beginning, seemed to 
lack energy and intensity – two key factors when playing on the road. 
With the win, Tennessee (8-
6, 1-1 SEC) remained perfect at home this season, while the Gators dropped the second of their last three games.
“(Tennessee) destroyed us,” 
Florida coach Mike White said. “They beat us in every facet of the game...very, very disappointed in our effort tonight.”
Senior guard Kevin Punter led 
the way for the Vols with 26 points, 
shooting 9-for-16 from the field and 
3-for-3 from beyond the arc. En-tering Wednesday night’s contest, Punter ranked second in the SEC in 
points per game with 22.8, trailing 
only Ole Miss’ Stefan Moody (23.7) and just ahead of Louisiana State freshman phenom Ben Simmons (20.1). 
Freshman Admiral Schofield added 17 points and eight rebounds for Tennessee in the win while Rob-ert Hubbs III contributed 12 points and nine boards.
“Defensively and on the glass, 
it was hands down our worst per-
Florida trounced by Tennessee
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
UF forward Dorian Finney-Smith attempts a layup during Florida's 
104-54 win against North Carolina A&T on Monday, Nov. 16, 2015.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writer
@ebaueri
When the Gators take the 
court tonight against No. 12 Ten-
nessee, one of the team’s greatest assets won’t see any game time. 
More accurately, two of the 
team’s greatest assets. 
Following a lackluster 13-17 
campaign in which UF failed to reach any form of postseason play, head coach Amanda But-ler knew that things needed to change. And the first place she looked was her own coaching staff. 
She called on two people. First was Bill Ferrara, a former 
graduate assistant and UF alum-nus who was hired away after a two-year stint at George Wash-ington University. 
And then there was Shimmy 
Gray-Miller, who was the head coach for seven years at the Uni-
versity of Saint Louis from 2005-
12 and last served as an assistant coach at the University of Ne-braska. 
The two share many similar 
traits, starting with their energet-ic personalities. However, their paths to Gainesville were very different. 
Ferrara was a coach at a very 
good program in George Wash-ington University when he got a call from Butler. Even as an alum-nus of UF, he said his decision to “come home” was not an easy one. 
“We had just won the Atlan-
tic-10 Championship the day be-fore. I had been celebrating all day and then here, not expecting 
something, shock. Shock would 
be the way I would describe it,” he said. 
“It wasn’t as easy of a decision 
as a lot of people would think it would be. It’s my dream job to get back here, but also I was at an amazing position working for a top-25 team at GW, working 
with great people. (Coach Butler) 
really did a great job of selling it to me and basically closed it with ‘Bill, it’s Florida and Florida doesn’t come around more than once.’”
Gray-Miller had even less mo-
tivation to come to Gainesville than Ferrara did, having attended the University of Michigan and never having coached anywhere near the state of Florida. Initially -- at least so she says -- Butler contacted her only to ask if she could recommend anyone. Even-tually, Butler asked her why she 
didn’t recommend herself. 
“Well, why would I do that? 
I’m pretty happy where I am,” 
Gray-Miller said. 
But a few days later, after giv-
ing the new opportunity a lot of thought, she decided that maybe UF was a good fit for her after all. Assistant coaches 
bring energy to Gators
Rowland
UF gymnastics team looking to make history in 2016
SEE GYM,  PAGE 18SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 18
Gators seeking four-peatSEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 18“If Bill thinks it’s a 
competition, he won hands 
down. I concede. I cannot 
compete with him in the area 
of sideline enthusiasm.”
 Shimmy Gray-Miller
Assistant CoachTHURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17 
By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13    
The Florida lacrosse team made its presence known to 
the Big East conference in 2015.
Following a five-year stint in the now-defunct Ameri-
can Lacrosse Conference, coach Amanda O’Leary and the 
Gators made the move to the Big East.
Having finished 15-6 overall in its first year in their new 
conference home, Florida avenged its only conference loss of the season — an 11-10 contest against Connecticut on 
the road — in the Big East title game as UF splintered UCo-
nn 20-6 to capture its first Big East crown.
Led by now-graduated Shannon Gilroy, who posted 
team-high marks in goals (74) and assists (24), the Gators 
reached the second round of the 2015 NCAA tournament, 
where their dreams of an NCAA title were put to rest by 
Atlantic Coast Conference power North Carolina 11-6. 
Despite the loss of Gilroy and fellow graduates Mikki 
Offit and Nora Barry, Florida enters its seventh season 
with a pile of experienced players. The Gators boast nine 
seniors, one redshirt senior and eight juniors. 
Midfielder Mollie Stevens, perhaps the team’s most no-
table returner, belongs to the latter class.Stevens, who is on a program record 25-game goal-
scoring streak, has been a large part of the Gators’ offense 
during her two seasons in Gainesville, notching 79 goals 
and 11 assists.
Florida also returns six of its seven players with double-
digit assists last season: Sammi Burgess, Allie Pavinelli, Ni-
cole Graziano, Lauren Lea, Carly Ross and Darcy Messina.
This season, the Gators will welcome an 11-player 
freshman class, the No. 4 recruiting class in the nation ac-
cording to Inside Lacrosse.
Highlighted by respective No. 1 and No. 2 national re-
cruits Lindsey Ronbeck and Sydney Pirreca, the new wave of players consists of seven midfielders, two attackers, one defender and one goalkeeper.
Florida begins its road to a seventh NCAA tournament 
appearance on Feb. 6 at home against Loyola. The 2016 non-conference schedule stands as one the toughest in the country — it features five of the top 10 teams from In-side Lacrosse’s final 2015 poll: Maryland, UNC, Syracuse, Stony Brook and Boston College.
The most anticipated regular season conference game 
for the Gators is the final match before the postseason, which is, fittingly enough, against the UConn Huskies on April 24 — this time at Donald R. Dizney Stadium in Gainesville.Gators lacrosse team hopes to build on Big East title
By Jake Dreilinger
Alligator Writer
@DreilingerJake
The No. 3 Florida women’s 
tennis team is riding into its 
spring season on a wave of mo-
mentum following successful Spring and Fall seasons. 
Under coach Roland Thorn-
qvist, the Gators made an im-pressive postseason run in the spring, meeting Vanderbilt in the NCAA Team Quarterfinals and placing a Gator in the semi-
finals of both the NCAA Singles 
and Doubles Championships.
The Gators’ NCAA Tourna-
ment meeting with the Commo-
dores was their third matchup 
— and third UF loss — of the 
season. Florida was leading 3-1, 
but a late effort by Vanderbilt led to a come-from-behind vic-tory that sent the Commodores to the semifinals.  
In the NCAA Singles Cham-
pionship, then-freshman Josie Kuhlman was defeated in the semifinals by Stanford’s Carol Zhao 2-6, 6-4, 6-0. Kuhlman fin-ished the season 37-11, the best singles record of all Gators last spring.
The duo of then-freshman 
Brooke Austin and then-soph-omore Kourtney Keegan also made it to the semifinals, falling to California’s Klara Fabikova and Zsofi Susanyi 3-6, 6-4, 6-4. 
The Gators were 11-4 in top-
25 matchups, with impressive wins over Georgia, Oklahoma State, Alabama and Virginia. 
Last year’s team of seven 
players added another for the Fall season. Sophomore Anna Danilina enrolled at Florida over the summer. 
The Moscow, Russia, native 
immediately made an impact, winning the doubles title at the Dick Vitale Intercollegiate Clay Court Classic with senior Bri-anna Morgan. 
The titles didn’t end there. 
Morgan, Keegan and junior Belinda Woolcock each won singles titles at the Duke Bonk Invitational. 
All four Gator doubles teams 
reached the semifinals at the USTA/ITA Southeast Regional Championships, guaranteeing a Gator doubles victory. Electing to play the semifinals and the fi-nals at the Ring Tennis Complex at UF, Kuhlman and Woolcock 
bested sophomore Peggy Porter 
and junior Spencer Liang. At the USTA Clay Court Invi-
tational, Kuhlman and Morgan 
defeated Porter and Liang in an all-Gator matchup for the dou-bles title. 
With every player returning 
from last season, the experi-enced Gators look to improve on a successful 24-4 season. 
The Spring season will fea-
ture six schools that finished in the top-10 last spring: Vander-bilt, USC, Georgia, California, Baylor and Texas A&M. 
Against schools in the top-10 
at the time Florida played them, the Gators went 4-4 in 2015. 
The season begins Jan. 15 at 
the UNLV Invite in Las Vegas.UF aiming for NCAA tournamentGATORS IN THE NFL
THE TIGHT END HAS FIVE 
TOUCHDOWNS IN HIS LAST 
FOUR GAMES
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Washington looks to Reed against 
Green Bay: 
The Redskins are one of the hottest 
NFL teams headed into the playoffs, and one of the biggest reasons has been the emergence of former UF tight end Jordan Reed.
After struggling to stay on the field 
due to injuries through his first two years, Reed has stayed relatively healthy this sea-son, playing in 14 games.
The result has been a season in which 
the third-year player recorded the second-most receptions (87) and fifth-most yards (952) among NFL tight ends, including 378 yards and five touchdowns in his last four games while Washington clinched the NFC East.
Reed has been a matchup nightmare 
for opposing defenses and has been one of the primary targets for quarterback Kirk Cousins, who has undergone an emer-gence of his own over the second half of the season.
Cousins will be looking for the tight 
end often against the Packers’ sixth ranked pass defense on Sunday, when the Red-skins try to notch their first playoff win since the 2005 season.
Another former UF player on the Red-
skins’ roster is running back Matt Jones, who has enjoyed a successful rookie sea-son.
Jones finished second on the team with 
490 rushing yards in the regular season, while also adding 304 receiving yards and four total touchdowns. The rookie played in 13 games this year but missed the last two with a hip pointer. His status for Sun-day’s game is uncertain, although he did practice in a limited fashion on Wednes-day.
Cincinnati relying on former UF de-
fenders:  
The Bengals will try — yet again — for 
their first playoff win since the 1991 sea-son when they host Pittsburgh on Satur-
day night. It’s been an unattainable feat 
over the past few seasons.
But with quarterback Andy Dalton still 
sidelined with a thumb injury, former Ala-
bama quarterback A.J. McCarron will be 
the man at the helm — a player with just 
three NFL starts under his belt.
Cincinnati’s defense will need to help 
the young quarterback, particularly for-
mer UF safety Reggie Nelson and former 
UF defensive lineman Carlos Dunlap. Af-
ter five solid seasons in Cincinnati, Nelson 
has improved his play this season and is enjoying the best year of his career. Nel-son was one of two players who led the 
league with eight interceptions this sea-
son, while also adding 77 tackles, good for 
second on the team.
Meanwhile, Dunlap has been a quar-
terback nightmare in 2015, recording 13.5 
sacks, good for fourth best in the NFL. The 
defensive end also forced two fumbles this 
year and will be looking to get after Pitts-burgh signal caller Ben Roethlisberger on Saturday.
Floyd making first playoff appear-
ance for Minnesota:  
Former UF defensive lineman Sharrif 
Floyd’s performance in 2015 fell off from a season ago. He notched just 2.5 sacks and 
19 tackles after having 4.5 sacks and 29 
tackles a year ago.
But despite the lack of growth from 
the former 2013 first round pick, his team 
improved dramatically this year, winning 
the NFC North behind the return of run-
ning back Adrian Peterson and making the 
playoffs for the first time since 2012 — the year before Floyd was drafted.
The third-year player will get his first 
taste of the postseason when the Vikings host the Seahawks and quarterback Rus-
sell Wilson on Sunday afternoon.Reed shining with Redskins
Alligator File Photo
UF coach Roland Thornqvist talks with Brianna Morgan 
during Florida’s 4-0 win against Maryland on Jan. 25 at the Ring T ennis Complex.
Aaron  Albright / Alligator Staff
UF midfielder Mollie Stevens runs during Florida’s 17-7 win against San Diego State on Feb. 20 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016
formance of the year,” White said. “I don’t 
understand, I’m searching as a coach why we 
can come into a game like tonight with the opportunities that we had and not play with the same character, mental make up, mental and physical toughness.”  
Florida (9-5, 1-1 SEC) started the game 
shooting the ball well, but went cold midway through the first half and could never get back in a groove until late in the second half when 
it was too late. Offensive struggles are nothing 
new for the Gators this season, but they usu-ally have the defense to help even things out. That wasn’t the case against Tennessee.Florida had been giving up 62.0 points per 
game before Wednesday night, but the Vols were already up to 53 at halftime. As a team, Tennessee shot 47 percent from the field, but it wasn’t just the made field goals that hurt 
the Gators. Florida committed 14 turnovers 
and Tennessee took advantage, outscoring the Gators 22-18 in points off turnovers. The Vols’ largest lead reached 30 at the 13:03 mark of the second half.
As for Florida on offense, the numbers 
were ugly. Kasey Hill finished 0-for-7 with one point, Chris Chiozza 1-for-5 with three points and Brandone Francis-Ramirez 0-for-5 
without scoring.  Freshman KeVaughn Allen led the team 
with 18 points, Devin Robinson added 13 points off the bench and Justin Leon scored 
11. Dorian Finney-Smith recorded the game’s only double-double with 12 points and 11 re-bounds 
As a team, the Gators shot just 34.3 per-
cent (24-for-70) from the field and 34.6 per-cent (9-for-26) from three.
John Egbunu, Florida’s second leading 
scorer, started to cash in on scoring oppor-
tunities in the second half but his early strug-
gles against a smaller Tennessee defense were part of the reason Florida’s offense stalled. Egbunu, who finished with eight points and 
seven rebounds, was hounded in the paint and had trouble even catching the basketball 
at times as his teammates continued to try to 
feed him down low. 
The Gators were outrebounded again, 
this time 49-40 by an undersized Tennessee 
lineup.
It doesn’t get any easier for Florida as Sim-
mons and LSU (9-5, 2-0 SEC) come to town on Saturday fresh off a home win over Ken-tucky for a 1:30 p.m. SEC matchup in the O’Connell Center.
“We gotta find five guys that are ready to 
fight at the tip against LSU,” White said. “Win or lose, that mentality (against Tennessee) is not who we’re going to be as a basketball pro-
gram.”
HOOPS,  from pg 16Volunteers scored 22 points off of Gators' 14 turnovers in loss 
Once they arrived, they began 
making a mark immediately with 
their personalities alone.
As mentioned previously, the 
two are incredibly energetic. 
If you ask Gray-Miller who’s 
more energetic, though, she says it’s no contest. 
“Bill definitely. Absolutely Bill,” 
she said. “If Bill thinks it’s a compe-tition, he won hands down. I con-cede. I cannot compete with him in the area of sideline enthusiasm.”
Unsurprisingly, Ferrara didn’t 
think it was so cut-and-dried. 
“That’s a tough one,” he said. “We have a lot of these moments 
where we both look at each other when we’re doing something dumb and then we high-five and we laugh about it. We love working togeth-er and we both love being Gators. 
That makes it a lot of fun.”
Regardless of who’s more ener-
getic, the two are both undeniably 
upbeat and engaged both in games and in practice. And from the way the team has played so far this year, the energy appears to be infectious. Redshirt senior guard Carlie Nee-
dles feels that Bill’s energy in par-ticular has paid dividends for her on the hardwood. 
“He has so much energy, and I 
feed off that,” she said. 
“He never lets me off the hook 
and is always telling me to go hard-er. I love that about him.”
Sophomore forward Haley Lo-
renzen feels that Gray-Miller’s per-sonality has also made her a better player. 
“She’s just really goofy. She can 
be very serious, though,” Lorenzen said. 
“She’s your friend, but she’s also 
going to be your coach. That’s the best thing about her.”
Since her and Bill’s arrivals, the 
tandem has already helped orches-trate an early-season turnaround, with the team being one win away from matching last year’s season total only one game into SEC play. 
However, the Gators’ SEC record 
is 0-1, and the schedule doesn’t do them any favors.
Bill, Shimmy and the rest of the 
Florida coaching staff visit Knox-ville to take on the Volunteers to-night at 7:30.UF is one win away from matching last season's win total
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF women's basketball assistant coach Bill Ferrara (center) celebrates with players after a play dur-
ing Florida's 82-72 win against Florida State on Nov. 16 in the O'Connell Center. 
perfect 10.0 at a collegiate meet — said. 
“Everything is smooth sailing right 
now. The freshmen are doing well, the 
new coaches are doing well. I think we’re all really excited to start.” 
Bridget Sloan echoed the sentiment. “I think every single person on the 
team transitioned a little bit different...and Jenny’s been so understanding. She’s been just someone that we can go to and talk to (when) we’re having a bad day. It’s not like, ‘what’s wrong?’ It’s more of, like, ‘alright, we’re gonna call it quits on today. I’m not worried about 
it. We’re gonna figure it out and every-
thing’s gonna be fine.’
“And that’s been, I think, the best 
adjustment, it being so smooth because she’s so understanding.”
Undoubtedly, Rowland’s personality 
has done wonders in setting the team at ease. 
Cheerful and warm, her presence 
filled the O’Connell Center’s gymnastics practice studio on WednesdayAt Wednesday’s meeting with the 
media, coach Rowland filed into the stu-dio with a smile.
“This is Kennedy!” she exclaimed 
jokingly, hugging two-time All-American 
Kennedy Baker before asking permission 
to quickly coordinate warm-ups.
It’s been said that a loose team is a 
dangerous one. 
Teams that can grind out a practice 
session and have a good time doing it are the ones to keep an eye on.
If preseason workouts are any indica-
tor, Jenny Rowland has managed to cre-
ate something special.
Or perhaps she’s kept what was al-
ready special intact. 
“When they’re (the coaching staff) 
excited, we get excited,” Sloan noted. 
“When they’re nervous, we start to 
get nervous, so it’s nice to have an entire 
staff that is very uplifting, is very posi-tive, because it really does rub off on 
us.” GYM,  from pg 16Florida hoping to ease transition into new coaching regime
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF's Bridget Sloan celebrates her perfect 10 on the uneven bars during the 2015 South-
eastern Conference Championships. 
W-HOOPS,  from pg 16THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
TRACK & FIELD
By Lauren Staff
Alligator Writer
@Lstaff27
The University of Florida’s 
men’s and women’s track and 
field teams seem ready. Ready to avenge back-to-back 
losses to Oregon in the men’s 
NCAA Outdoor Championships. 
Ready to build on a young wom-en’s roster that featured 11 true freshmen last season. 
And, finally, ready to be NCAA champions again — something the men’s team hasn’t accom-
plished since 2013 and the wom-
en’s team since 1992. 
This season, Florida welcomes 
one of its most talented recruit-
ing classes in recent history. Fif-
teen athletes signed with Florida, bringing a combined 42 individ-ual and 13 team state champion-ships to the collegiate level.
“We signed several young 
people who we believe will make an immediate impact on our pro-gram,” coach Mike Holloway said 
in a release.  “Looking at the 
class, I feel as though we cov-ered all areas — sprints, hurdles, throws, jumps and distances.”
The men’s and women’s teams 
each return 10 USTFCCCA All-Americans, with a combined 101 honors between them.
Something that the roster lacks 
for the Gators, however, is experi-ence. Fifty-five out of the 93 ath-letes on both the men’s and wom-en’s rosters are underclassmen. 
It will also be a tough task for 
the men’s team to fill the void left by former standout Marquis Dendy, who won seven NCAA Championships during his four 
years as a Gator. Dendy was 
awarded The Bowerman, an award for the top track and field athlete in the country, and was vital to Florida’s success last year.
But the Gators does not lack 
talent, and with Dendy gone, it will give other athletes on the team a chance to contribute more.
Senior Antwan Wright, a two-
time NCAA Outdoor Champion, 
along with senior Najee Glass and 
sophomore Arman Hall, the last two USTFCCCA South Region In-door Athletes of the Year, all have the ability to help Florida com-pete for a National Championship 
this year.
Florida is ready. Florida is tal-
ented. And Florida can present a 
challenge to every team it faces this season, starting Jan. 22 in 
Lexington, Kentucky, at the Rod 
McCravy Invitational.Young Florida team looks to end NCAA championship drought
BOTH THE MEN’S AND 
WOMEN’S TEAMS ARE RANKED 
TOP 15 IN THE NATION.
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writer
@ebaueri
The UF men’s and women’s golf teams both have a lot to 
build on heading into the spring campaign. 
Both come in ranked inside the top 15 nationally, both 
played very solidly in their respective Fall tournaments, and 
both have a lot to prove after finishing outside the top five in 
the Southeastern Conference last year. 
The men’s team, led by second-year coach J.C. Deacon, 
made tremendous improvements from last year, including 
bringing in freshman Sam Horsfield. 
Horsfield’s resume is impressive, as he advanced to the 
Round of 32 at the 2015 U.S. Amateur, won the 2013 class 3A FHSAA championship, and played in the U.S. Open. He also boasts the No. 23 individual ranking according to Golfweek, which is tops on the team.
Junior Alejandro Tosti has also played solid golf for the 
Gators, boasting his own ranking of No. 45 while claiming a share of the Florida Gulf Coast University Classic title in the Fall and helping lead Florida to victory in the same tournament. 
In addition to Horsfield and Tosti, junior Ryan Orr and fresh-
man Jorge Garcia are expected to be major contributors. 
While the men’s team finished in a tie for seventh in the SEC 
last season, it did manage to make it all the way to the NCAA Championships, where it placed 28 out of 30. 
Currently sitting with a No. 11 ranking, expectations are 
greater this year. 
The women’s squad also comes in with higher expectations 
and sports a ranking of No. 13. 
In her fourth season, coach Emily Glaser is leading a squad 
thick with veterans, as six of the team’s nine athletes are up-perclassmen. 
However, it’s an underclassmen who comes in with the 
most clout. 
Sophomore Taylor Tomlinson boasts the No. 52 national ranking, which is best on the team. She’s also coming off a season in which she was named to the All-SEC Freshman team 
and paced the team with a tournament-best round of 70 at the 
2015 SEC Championship. 
Taylor’s brother, J.D. Tomlinson, was a senior and a major 
contributor on the men’s team last year.
This season, more is expected of his younger sibling on the 
women’s team. In addition to Tomlinson, junior Maria Torres is the team’s 
second-highest ranked player at No. 63, and fellow junior 
Karolina Vlckova is coming off an individual trip to the NCAA 
Championships and was a Golfweek Honorable Mention All-American. 
Much like the men’s team, a sixth place finish in the SEC last 
season was unsatisfactory. This season, coming off a first place finish at the Alamo Invitational in Fall, expectations are higher. UF golf expects improvement after succesful Fall seasonJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF coach Mike Holloway talks with Andres Arroyo during the Flor-
ida Relays on April 4 at the Percy Beard Track.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF’s Najee Glass races the final leg of the 4x400-meter relay to close out the 2015 Florida Relays on April 4 at the Percy Beard Track.
Alligator File Photo
Alejandro T osti putts during the 2015 Sun Trust Gator Invitational on Feb. 14 in Gainesville.
THE THUNDER ARE AVERAGING 
THE SECOND MOST POINTS 
IN THE NBA.
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
 
Billy Donovan and the Thunder are roll-
ing.
After starting the regular season 3-3, 
Oklahoma City has won seven of its last 
nine games and sits in third place in the Western Conference.
Under the former Florida coach, the 
Thunder are averaging the second most points per game in the NBA (108.5), led by OKC’s leading scorers in forward Kevin Du-rant and guard Russell Westbrook.
Bealing Blue:After suffering a shoulder injury in the 
second week of the season, Bradley Beal has struggled to stay on the court this year.
The former Florida guard has played in 
just 17 of Washington’s 33 games this sea-son.
Even so, Beal has played well when he’s 
been available.
He leads the Wizards with 19.8 points 
per game and also collects 4.7 rebounds and 
3.2 assists per contest.
According to Jorge Castillo of the Wash-
ington Post, Beal has been increasing his level of activity during practice, but the Wiz-
ards have yet to announce a return date.
Horford getting hot:After winning the Eastern Conference last 
regular season, Atlanta has fallen off slightly through the season’s first 36 games. 
Led by veteran and former Gators center 
Al Horford, the Hawks sit in fifth place in the Eastern Conference. 
But Horford is averaging 15.3 points, 7.1 
rebounds and 3.0 assists so far this season, and has shot 22-of-36 for 56 points com-bined over his last three games. 
The Hawks next face Philadelphia on 
Thursday at 7 p.m.
Speights soaring:  
The Golden State Warriors are continuing 
their dominance over the rest of the NBA, 
and Marreesse Speights is getting more min-
utes and opportunities. 
While he’s averaging just 5.7 points per 
game on the season, Speights has averaged 10 points per game over his last five games.
The 6-foot-10 center had a season-high 
15 points on 7-of-10 shooting in the War-riors’ 111-101 win against the Charlotte Hor-nets on Monday. 
Speights followed that game up with 
his first double-double of the season — 12 points and 10 rebounds — in the Warriors’ 109-88 win over the Los Angeles Lakers on Tuesday. 
Golden State (33-2) will play the Portland 
Trail Blazers on Friday at 10 p.m.20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2016
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
Keanu Neal will not return to 
Florida for his senior season.
The safety announced via his In-
stagram account Wednesday after-noon that he is leaving school early 
for the NFL Draft. Neal is expected 
to be drafted in the first three rounds and received a top-60 projection from the NFL Draft Advisory Board, according to draft analyst Tony Pau-line.
“This was honestly the hardest 
decision I ever made,” Neal wrote, “but prayer and family support 
helped a lot. … It’s time to take the 
next step in my life and attain my dream.”
Neal made a name for himself 
for his hard hits from the defensive backfield. The Bushnell, Florida, na-tive finished third on the team with 96 tackles — including a team-best 51 solo tackles — despite missing the 
first two games of the season with 
a hamstring injury. He capped his UF career with an 11-tackle outing in Florida’s 41-7 Citrus Bowl loss to Michigan. 
Over his three years at UF, Neal 
played in 34 games, recording 146 total tackles, four interceptions and nine pass breakups.
Neal is the fifth UF underclassman 
to declare for the NFL Draft, joining cornerback Vernon Hargreaves III, running back Kelvin Taylor, wide receiver Demarcus Robinson and de-fensive end Alex McCalister to leave school early in an attempt to go pro.
“First day I stepped foot on cam-
pus, I knew I made the right deci-
sion,” Neal wrote. “Nothing will 
ever take away the memories and bonds I have gained.”With Neal’s decision, Florida 
is waiting on two more juniors — safety Marcus Maye and linebacker Jarrad Davis — to finalize their plans for next season.
Maye, who had a breakout sea-
son (82 tackles, two interceptions, five forced fumbles), has not indi-cated whether he is returning for his senior season or leaving early. Davis said he was returning next season following the Southeastern Conference Championship Game but “could have a change of heart,” ac-cording to the school’s website.
With Florida losing at least three 
starters from its secondary in Neal, Hargreaves and senior Brian Poole, sophomore Duke Dawson and red-shirt sophomore Marcell Harris will likely receive more playing time in 2016 at safety and nickel cornerback. 
Rising juniors Jalen Tabor and 
Quincy Wilson, who combined for 69 tackles, six interceptions and 19 pass breakups, are expected to hold down the outside cornerback spots next season.Hard-hitting safety Keanu Neal declares for NFL draft
Donovan’s Thunder continue winning ways, Beal sidelinedEmiliy Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF’s Keanu Neal goes in for a tackle during Florida’s 29-15 loss to Alabama in the Southeastern Conference Championship game on Sat-
urday, Dec. 5, 2015, at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta. 
AP Photo
Thunder head coach Billy Donovan, left, talks with forward Kevin Durant, right, dur-ing an NBA basketball game in Oklahoma City on Sunday, December 27, 2015. 
