We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 81 THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016
UF pitching staﬀ   brings experience 
arms, talented newcomer
Two juniors are projected as high
 ﬁ  rst-round MLB draft picks, pg. 17
Community discusses gun violence
The forum was Wednesday, pg.5
Panelists speak on Alachua’s criminal justice 
system
It discussed health care and child criminals, pg.8Check us online
Follow us on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
@martinvassolo
Gainesville Police arrested mayoral candi-
date Donald E. Shepherd Sr. after police said he 
stole a truck in August.
Christina Fisher, 29, ﬁ  rst reported the theft of her grandmother’s 1991 Ford F-150 pickup truck to Gainesville Police on Aug. 31. Frances Crethers, the victim’s grandmother and the original owner of the truck, died from lympho-
ma last year at the age of 90.
The truck was transferred to Fisher’s uncle, 
who then transferred it to Fisher and her hus-
band, according to a police report. Fisher said she met Shepherd for the ﬁ  rst time while clean-ing out her grandmother’s former apartment the day after her funeral. Fisher said Shepherd was trying to take 
advantage of the situation for personal gain.
“The only thing he re-
ally did was try to loot the 
place,” Fisher said. “He 
didn’t really try to help.”  
When the issue of the truck came up, Fisher 
said Shepherd repeatedly asked the family if he could have the truck. The family refused, stat-ing the truck belonged with them.
Fisher noticed the truck was missing Aug. 
28, and she went to Shepherd’s house the fol-lowing day. The truck was parked in his drive-way by his minivan, according to the report.
Fisher took a photograph of Shepherd stand-
ing by the truck, which would lead to his arrest. Police released him when they ruled there was 
not enough evidence to hold him, Fisher said 
police told her. He was arrested again Wednes-day. M ayoral candidate charged for grand theft
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
CLOUDY CANDY
May Crespo, a 20-year-old UF civil engineering junior, prepares a cloud of cotton candy for a student 
on the North Lawn on Monday as part of the National Society of Black Engineers recruitment drive. The NSBE’s ﬁ  rst meeting will be Wednesday at 6:15 p.m. in the computer sciences and engineering building, Room E119.
CAMPUS
By Morgan Miller
Alligator Contributing Writer
Six UF students are among 
the ﬁ  nalists for a Disney com-
petition.
On Jan. 25, they will travel to 
the Disney Imagineering Imagi-nations Design Competition ﬁ  -nals in Glendale, California, to 
compete for a $1,000 grant and 
cash prize. The competition aims to ﬁ  nd new ways to bring Disney to small communities in the U.S.
As ﬁ  nalists, these UF stu-
dents will be considered for a paid internship as well.
The UF students’ idea would 
have participants interact with Mickey Mouse and a new char-acter they created, said Nathan DeKrey, a UF mechanical engi-neering senior.DeKrey, 22, said he led the 
project and oversaw the tech-
nology needed for their idea. 
KaTosha O’Daniel, a 28-year-old UF English doctoral candidate, created a story to accompany the new character in order to 
draw the audience in.
Soﬁ  a Ouhri, a 21-year-old UF 
graphic design junior, and India 
Brooks, a UF architecture gradu-
ate student, helped with graphic 
design and modeled the group’s submission, he said.
DeKrey said he encouraged 
the other members to submit 
their idea.
The group worked together 
for three months, but spent 
eight weeks coming up with an 
idea, he said. They met two to 
three hours a week, to create  UF students ﬁ  nalists 
in Disney competition
POLICE DO NOT SUSPECT 
CRIMINAL ACTIVITY
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
University Police are investigating the death 
of a UF student that occurred outside Trusler 
Hall on Wednesday morning.
At about 8 a.m. Wednesday, ofﬁ  cers found Wesley Michael Spano, 19, dead inside a ve-hicle by the residence hall, located on Gale Le-
merand Drive, said Ofﬁ  cer Wayne Clark, a UPD 
spokesman. He was later identiﬁ  ed as a Trusler Hall resident, according to an email from UF Housing and Residence Education. 
Spano’s family was notiﬁ  ed Wednesday 
morning.
Police do not suspect that criminal activity 
played a role in Spano’s death, Clark said.
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes said Spano was a computer science freshman who started classes in the Fall.
Spano attended St. Thomas Aquinas High 
School in Fort Lauderdale, where he played on the school’s varsity baseball team as a pitcher, according to the school’s website.
He was a member of the National Honor So-
ciety and the Spanish Honor Society, according to a baseball recruitment video on a St. Thomas YouTube channel. His cumulative unweighted grade-point average in high school was about 3.9, and his weighted GPA was about 5.2.
He volunteered with Investment and Money 
Management Inc., a nonproﬁ  t that teaches ath-letes to make smart ﬁ  nancial choices. Spano also performed at weddings, parties and Cross-Fit competitions as the owner of his own disc jockey company, according to the video.
As of press time, no ofﬁ  cial report has been 
released with details about the incident.
UF has not announced if it will plan a cer-
emony for the student, Sikes said.  UF freshman found dead outside of Trusler HallSEE DISNEY,  PAGE 4SEE ARREST,  PAGE 4He is accused of stealing a truck
Shepherd
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply Now for 2016-17 Financial 
Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) 
at fafsa.ed.gov. You can file a 
FAFSA as early as Jan. 1 each year. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive the results of your FAFSA from the federal proces-sor is March 15. Apply well be-fore March 15 to ensure that the federal processor has time to ana-lyze and send the results of your 
FAFSA to UF Student Financial 
Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most, and best, aid.In order for UF Student Financial Affairs to consider you for a fi-nancial aid package, you must 
be an admitted student and have 
met the “On-Time” deadline. For more information or assistance with completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your financial aid adviser. Visit sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Condom Accessory Design 
Challenge for Sex in the Swamp 2016Grab a friend, get creative and transform condoms into the next must-have accessory! As part of its Sex in the Swamp event on Feb. 18, the Alpha Lamba Chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma is hosting a condom accessory design chal-
lenge. Each first-place winning 
team member will receive a Fitbit Flex Wireless Activity + Sleep Wristband! Teams of one to three current UF students must register for the challenge by Jan. 29, and the design must be completed by 5 p.m. on Feb. 16. For more in-formation and to register a team, 
visit shcc.ufl.edu/2016/01/12/condom-accessory-design-chal-
lenge.
Gators for UNICEF Presents an 
Evening on Human Trafficking 
Awareness
Gators for UNICEF will be kicking off the Spring semester with an evening dedicated to human traf-ficking awareness Thursday. We will begin at 6 p.m. in Matherly Hall, Room 107, with a brief in-troduction of what Gators for UNICEF has coming up this se-
mester as well as light refresh-
ments. At 6:30 p.m., Richard Tovar, president of the Alachua County Coalition Against Human Trafficking, will be speaking to us about the work the coalition does and give us some more informa-tion on human trafficking both locally and worldwide. Everyone 
is invited to participate in this im-
portant and informative discus-sion! We hope to see you there!
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a 1960s-themed event, “A Decade that Changed Us,” on Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz 
Union. The event will feature a 
Beatles cover band, a bungee run and a ‘60s “American Bandstand” dance-off contest with prizes. The event will also feature two show-ings of “The Peanuts Movie” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free pizza during 
Midnight Munchies. This event 
is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
“Breathe”
“Breathe,” the story of one man’s journey to live beyond the odds, comes to the Squitieri Studio Theatre, located in the West Wing of the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, on Saturday and Sunday. Brennen Reeves just wanted to be normal. The only 
problem: a fatal lung disease 
— cystic fibrosis. The only solu-tion: a double lung transplant. Hilarious and heartbreaking, this solo show presented by UF’s College of the Arts and College of Public Health and Health Professions will leave audiences moved and inspired. Co-created 
with David Lee Nelson, “Breathe” 
is written and performed by Reeves, a 2014 graduate of the College of Charleston.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mgracehenley@alligator.org. 
To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
In a story titled “Adrian Hayes-
Santos holds fundraiser” pub-lished Wednesday, the Alligator incorrectly reported that David Arreola was a UF alumnus. He actually graduated from Flagler College in 2014.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 81
HIGH  64° LOW  50°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Jessica Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, 
  Michael Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga, Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,     
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks  Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
@Melissagomez004
UF President Kent Fuchs walked with 
students Wednesday night across campus, 
taking a look at voting rights through U.S. 
history. 
To kick off the start of  a month-long 
celebration of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day 
and Black History Month, he and about 
50 students and community members gathered at the Institute of Black Culture to march across UF’s campus.  About 20 
posters were scattered across the walk. Each poster represented a voting mile-stone throughout history. Participants lit 
their candles at the poster that represent-
ed their historical ability to vote based on race, gender, age and hometown.
As Fuchs walked with students, he 
lit his candle at the first poster, which 
granted him the right to vote. The poster 
granted white men over the age of 21 who owned property the right to vote in 1776. He was one of two who lit a candle.“Right at the beginning, it was an emo-
tional experience,” he said, walking along with the students.
During the ceremony, Fuchs said he be-
came emotional knowing many  students weren’t able to light candles until the end of the walk. 
Most students, such as  Yareliz Mendez-
Zamora, couldn’t light their candles until later in the walk. When the 21-year-old UF history and English senior was finally able to light her candle, she smiled.
Demarcus Merritt, a member of the 
MLK steering committee that helped or-ganize the vigil, said the event helps cel-ebrate Martin Luther King, Jr.’s progress for the U.S.
“Dr. King wasn’t just fighting for black people, he was fighting for all of man-kind,” Merritt said.
On the chilly night, they huddled to-
gether and read the posters along the way to the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, where the participants reflected on the history of voting rights.
Fuchs said racism still exists on college 
and university campuses despite the prog-ress the U.S. has made.
“Universities can and should be a hub 
for this leadership. All students are wel-
come and belong at UF,” he said.
Fuchs said he doesn’t have all the an-
swers to solving inequality, but students 
play an important role moving forward.
“Together, we can solve this problem,” 
he saidUF, community reflect on voting rights at MLK vigil
Cecilia Lemus / Alligator
About 50 participants came together on Wednesday night at the Institute of Black 
Culture to walk through UF’s campus, lighting candles along the way and kicking off a month-long celebration of Martin Luther King Jr. Day and Black History Month.
Cecilia Lemus / Alligator
Elyssa Kelly, a 21-year-old UF biochemistry junior, lights her candle at the Institute of Black Culture to march across UF’s campus in honor of Martin Luther King Jr. on Wednesday evening.  
Fuchs joined the studentsAlachua County Supervisor of 
Elections Pam Carpenter said the 
charges do not disqualify Shepherd as a mayoral candidate.
“In order to qualify to run for of-
fice in the city, you need to be a reg-istered voter and you need to have been a resident of the district or the city for the specified amount of time,” she said. “Mr. Shepherd has met those criteria.”
Shepherd previously ran for a city 
commission seat in 2014 and 2015 but lost both elections after also com-
ing in fifth behind current Gainesville 
Mayor Ed Braddy in the 2013 may-oral election. Shepherd, who was re-leased from the Alachua County Jail on his own recognizance Wednesday morning, called the accusations base-less in an interview outside his mo-bile home.
“I’m a Christian man,” he said, 
standing with his wife, Nancy. “I’m not a thief.” With the truck still miss-ing, Fisher said Shepherd probably sold it for scrap metal. Shepherd said he would never steal from a friend.
Nancy, Shepherd’s wife, said she 
and Donald knew Crethers since about 2004. She said they helped her find an apartment and took her to 
hospital visits.
“We were close friends,” she said about Crethers. “We did things to-
gether, I helped her get to the doc-tor.”
But Fisher said the friendship 
wasn’t normal. The couple, she al-
leged, would cajole Crethers into 
buying them expensive dinners in exchange for their hospital visits.
“We never thought this would 
happen,” Nancy said about the charge. Shepherd said he was wor-ried the allegations may negatively affect his run for mayor.
“I worry that it’s going to affect 
me seeking mayor, yes, because… when people see this, they lose faith in me,” he said. “And that’s the big-gest and strongest thing you could ever have is faith.”
Shepherd said he would con-
tinue to fight for social and financial equality and unite the city commis-sion if elected. “I have the faith... the 
knowledge of how to change this city 
around for the better,” he said.
Braddy, who is running for reelec-
tion against Shepherd, said he was surprised about the charge, saying that, “knowing him, I would think there has to be a misunderstanding somewhere.”
Braddy described Shepherd as 
“one of the most decent and likeable people” he’s met in local politics and urged voters to focus on issues facing the city rather than the charges.
“I would just ask everyone give him space and let him deal with the situation,” Braddy said.
Lauren Poe, who is also seeking 
the mayoral election, echoed Brad-dy’s opinion.
“I’ve known Donald for many 
years,” he said. “He’s probably our most consistent participant in city commission meetings, and you never would think somebody would alleg-edly do something like this.”Poe said he doesn’t think the 
charges will affect Shepherd’s run for mayor. He also said he would not jump to judge Shepherd, saying the law considers a person innocent until 
proven guilty.
“I’m going to afford him that full 
benefit and what our legal system 
can offer him and not pass judge-ment on him,” Poe said.
Shepherd fought back tears on his front lawn as he heard some of the more direct allegations against him, mainly that he stole the truck because he was “money-hungry,” as Fisher quoted her grandmother as 
saying.
“I’m not that type of person,” 
Shepherd said.   
Alligator Staff Writer Hunter Wil-
liamson contributed to this report.4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016
Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
mkornfield@alligator.org
@merylkornfield
UF has ranked among the fast-
est growing schools for students 
with sugar babies.
Seeking Arrangement, an alter-
native dating website, ranked UF 
48th on the list of the fastest grow-
ing sugar baby schools of 2016. Sugar babies are students who re-ceive financial assistance, such as tuition, for giving another compan-ionship.
Angela Bermudo, a spokes-
person for Seeking Arrangement, said she thinks more students are 
becoming sugar babies because of 
increased tuition rates.
“Students are seeing this as an 
alternative option of taking out loans,” Bermudo said. “It’s also an alternative way of dating.”
In 2015, 45 students from UF 
signed up for premium member-ships on Seeking Arrangements, an 11.58 percent increase from 2014. In total, 435 UF students are regis-tered on the website, she said.
In 2010, the website began of-
fering free memberships to stu-dents who used their college email address, Bermudo said. Before, members paid $20. After making it free, the membership rate in-creased by a magnitude of 12.
Bermudo said the website oper-
ates like any other dating website. 
The sugar babies and their 
sponsors come to an agreement on how they want the releationship 
structured and how much money 
the student will be paid, Bermudo said.
The average sugar baby makes 
$3,000 a month, she said. But Ber-mudo said there are other benefits to these relationships, like net-working and mentorship.
Iara Dircie, a UF political sci-
ence freshman, said she worries this program would limit a stu-dent’s freedom.
“I don’t think that the student 
should feel obligated to do any-thing for money,” the 18-year-old said. “I don’t want to feel like I owe someone something.”
UF ranks among top 50 schools for ‘sugar babies’
THE AVERAGE PRICE OF 
GAS IS $1.96.
By Levi Bradford
Alligator Contributing Writer
It’s a new year with high hopes and low 
gas prices.
As of press time, the average price of gas in 
Gainesville was $1.96, which is $1.75 less than when it soared near the end of April 2014, ac-
cording to the GasBuddy website.
Shreyas Amol Jethwani, a 19-year-old UF 
French and political science freshman, drives 
a Nissan Altima. Jethwani’s car gets up to 28 miles per gallon, and gas prices are making it easier for him to see family.
“I drive from here to Ocala twice a week, 
so gas is very important to me,” Jethwani said.
Besides cheaper travel, falling gas prices 
could lead to savings elsewhere, Derek Farn-sworth, an assistant professor in UF’s Food and Resource Economics Department, said.
“Everything runs off gas, so it should make 
most products cheaper,” Farnsworth said.
At its peak, Gainesville gas prices were 
about $4 in 2008. At its lowest, the price of 
local gas was about $1.71 in 2009, according 
to the website.
While Jethwani appreciates saving money, 
he has concerns about how these prices may affect the demand for energy-efficient cars.
“Back around 2000 to 2004, everyone had 
big SUVs and Land Rovers: gas-guzzlers,” Jethwani said. “But then the market for green cars exploded because gas prices were so high. 
I’m just worried that low prices might cause a 
lull in the demand for green cars.”
Despite his doubts, Jethwani still has to 
make the drive to Ocala, enjoying lower prices all the way.
“What a time to be a driver,” he said. 
“Thanks, Obama.”Lower gas prices could 
drive in benefits for drivers
their idea.
The students came from different back-
grounds, which helped bring many per-
spectives while they were creating their 
submission, he said.
“It was always a collaborative effort,” 
DeKrey said.
India Brooks, a team member and ar-
chitecture graduate student, said at times, the group members disagreed, but they would vote and discuss other ideas until they came to an agreement.
“Four heads are better than one,” the 
48-year-old said.  
The team wanted the design to be in-
spiring to the small communities that 
could be seeing their idea, Brooks said. 
They wanted their idea to combine Dis-ney’s past by using characters such as Mickey Mouse, but also bring new ele-ments, such as their new character.
Mark Witko, manager of external 
communications for Walt Disney Imagi-neering, said the competition is highly competitive. Designers need to display 
creative thought in order to make it as far 
at UF’s team has.
Disney uses the competition as a way 
to find potential creative designers, or 
Imagineers, for future Disney attractions, 
he said. While he wasn’t a judge himself, Witko said all of the ideas he has seen were creative and inspiring.
“It’s a great place to showcase their 
work and find the next crop of imagi-neers,” Witko said. “Many people go on to work as Imagineers at Disney.”The finals are on Jan. 25
“It’s a great place to showcase their 
work and find the next crop of 
imagineers.”
Mark Witko
Manager of External Communications
ARREST,  from pg 1He’s not disqualified
Martin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
Gainesville mayoral candidate Donald Shepherd Sr. (right) and his wife, Nancy, speak outside his Gainesville home on 
Wednesday afternoon. Gainesville Police say he stole a truck in August and arrested him on Wednesday morning.DISNEY,  from pg 1CAMPUS  THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
IT WAS FOR THE GLOBAL SOCIETY CLUB.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
@hunterewilliam
The Santa Fe College Student Senate debated 
Wednesday evening whether to approve a nearly 
$2,000 overflow request from the Global Society club.
Club president Kayla Caniff pitched the proposal to 
the chamber, saying the club needs funds to travel to 
Chicago for a national Model United Nations confer-
ence in April.
Of the $1,965 requested from the Student Govern-
ment’s overflow budget, Caniff said the money would go toward covering registration and hotel fees. The club won awards at previous conferences and 
Caniff said they hoped to win more awards at this meet-ing, where they’ll compete against Ivy League schools.
Sen. Aaron Gabriel said he didn’t have any concerns 
about the request.
“Honestly, it seems like they really need it,” he said.Benjamin Myers, the recruitment and training direc-
tor, expressed a similar opinion.
“I have zero reservations about this,” he said.After two minutes of open discussion between the 
club and senators, the chamber voted overwhelmingly to approve the overflow request. Student Body Presi-
dent Conor Flynn also said SG began polling students 
for their opinions about the use of tobacco on campus.  
Additionally, he said progress was made on a reso-
lution the chamber passed last year to restrict e-ciga-rettes to smoking pits.SFC Senate approves $2000 request
By RaSheba Jones
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is celebrating Martin Luther King Jr.’s legacy.
It is holding events through the next week to help 
students learn about MLK’s teachings, said Jonathan Co-
hen, a professor of law and associate director of the Insti-
tute for Dispute Resolution at the Levin College of Law. 
He hopes the events will help students understand 
the importance of justice.
“Dr. King had such deep insights into the nature of 
justice,” Cohen said. “Trying to move our world from an unjust place to a justice place.”
Cohen said he will read King’s “Letter From Birming-
ham Jail” at an event today at the Levin College of Law. 
He said he’ll have students discuss it and hopes they 
understand past events and the impact they have had to this day.
Vasanti Sharma, a UF business administration senior, 
said she will give back on MLK Day along with her mul-ticultural sorority. She will pick up litter and plant trees with Keeping Alachua County Beautiful.
“Martin Luther King Day is a monumental day in his-
tory,” the 21-year-old said. “He changed the way that 
people should think about racism and color.”
She said she hopes others also give back on MLK 
Day.
“On this day, we should give back to the community 
— to the world — how he gave to us,” Sharma said.Local events to honor MLK Jr.By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
@hunterewilliam
Local community members came 
together Wednesday night at a forum 
to discuss gun violence and bills aim-ing to change state gun laws.
As national attention turns to gun 
violence and gun rights bills move through the state legislature, Meshon Rawls, a UF legal skills professor and director of Gator TeamChild Juvenile Law Clinic, said the discussion was important.
About 50 people — including 
community leaders such as Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell and an 
audience of mostly middle and high 
school students — convened at the Martin Luther King, Jr. Multipurpose Center as part of MLK Week.Senate Bill 68 was introduced on 
Tuesday. If approved by the legis-lature, it would allow for concealed and open carry on college campuses. Another bill in the legislature aims 
to amend the “Stand Your Ground” 
law. The campus carry bill has stirred controversy on college campuses, and the panel was mostly unanimous in its opposition.
Darnell said open carry would re-
strict gun rights, rather than expand them, because businesses could pos-sibly block open-carry holders from 
entering their stores. Additionally, 
she said it would likely lead to an increase in calls to law enforcement from frightened citizens.
“My belief is that the current 
concealed carry law in Florida has worked very well,” she said. “There has been very few issues with it.”
Darnell said she and other sheriffs are worried about the bill’s wording, which makes no mention of holsters 
or firearm training.
She also expressed concern over 
the average permit holder not be-
ing trained to properly react to high stress in an active shooter situation.
Nonetheless, Darnell said her de-
partment would follow and enforce the bill if approved to become law.
Attorney Daryl Parks stressed the 
importance of valuing life and getting an education.
“Before you deal with gun vio-
lence, understand your life has value,” he said, addressing the audi-ence.
“We’re here because of you 
guys,” Parks continued.
While the students were restless 
at times, Gainesville High School stu-dent Anthony Ransom had no doubt about the forum’s significance.
“A lot of them are probably not 
paying attention, but they’ll never forget this,” he said. Community discusses gun violence
TODAY, JAN. 14
“Letter From Birmingham Jail”: Lessons For Social Justice AdvocacyLevin College of Law, Holland 285C at 3 p.m.
UF’s Untold History
Place and time TBD
MONDAY, JAN. 18
Day of ServiceBen Hill Griffin Stadium at 8 a.m.
TUESDAY, JAN. 19
MLK Celebration Keynote Speaker, Nikki GiovanniReitz Union Grand Ballroom at 7 p.m.
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 20
#BlackLivesMatter Dialogue: From Then to NowCypress Hall Gathering Room at 6 p.m.
THURSDAY, JAN. 21
Reflection Unheard: Black Women in Civil RightsUstler Hall Atrium at 6 p.m.
THURSDAY, JAN. 28 
Multicultural and Diversity Affairs Town HallUstler Hall Atrium at 6 p.m.
SUNDAY, JAN. 31
Black History Month Opening Ceremony
Reitz Union Grand BallroomThe forum was W ednesdayThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWhere we are now: 
American culture 
and the Powerball
“$   1.5 billions dollars, nothing to lose.” This 
cute little mantra we just made up seems to be the prevailing attitude among millions of 
Americans this week, as the country collec-
tively rushes to the nearest gas station, su-
permarket or liquor store to buy their way into a chance at changing their lives forever.
First things first: There IS something to lose, specifically 
to the tune of $2, minimum. 
There’s also that little matter of one’s dignity. As re-
ported by nearly every news source covering the story, the chances of winning the Powerball jackpot are one in 292.2 
million. Provided courtesy of a somewhat cheeky piece in 
The Atlantic, here’s a list of unorthodox causes of death that an American has a better chance of falling victim to than winning the lottery:
Dying from an asteroid impact: 1 in 74.8 millionDying in an earthquake: 1 in 14.7 millionDying in a flood: 1 in 12.5 millionGetting bitten by a dog: 1 in 9.2 millionBeing attacked by a shark: 1 in 1.6 million
Being struck by lightning: 1 in 1.2 million
Dying in a car accident: 1 in 37,028Dying of gun violence: 1 in 28,153We know what you’re thinking: Who knew that dying 
from a dog bite was even in the same ballpark as perishing in a flood? 
Fascinating facts aside, the point is that neither you, us 
nor anyone we know is going to win the jackpot. And that’s fine. What isn’t fine is what the Powerball craze says about 
the state of American finances, priorities and culture.
It’s no secret Americans are perpetually hungry: hungry 
for money, hungry for fame, hungry for entertainment and, 
in many streets or neglected areas of the country, hungry 
for actual food. 
Because not all Americans are afforded the same op-
portunities, education and insight as many of us here at 
UF, this shared hunger has disproportionately benefited the few. This would almost (almost!) be fine — if the rest of us 
weren’t getting screwed in the process.
It was very cute of President Obama to make a joke dur-
ing the State of the Union address about wealthy politicians 
being the only people able to retire in the U.S. But when a 
dark joke rings so true that it generates several serious think 
pieces, we have bigger things to worry about than paying a premium to chase an impossible dream.
It is positively criminal that so many Americans have 
been reduced to placing their hopes of financial salvation in 
the invisible, uncaring hands of a random lottery. 
Perhaps if Americans got as excited about holding poli-
ticians accountable and improving their quality of life as 
they did the Powerball jackpot, we wouldn’t find ourselves 
here. But then again, that seems as unlikely as winning the 
lottery.Why we need to be wary of value placed on polls
If this election cycle will be remembered for anything, it will be not only for the amount of candidates, but also for the sheer amount 
of polling conducted. The average news 
watcher is bombarded with percentage 
points on a daily basis when reading or watch-ing the news. The only other place you could 
get this many numbers is when Bernie Sanders 
talks about economic reform and taxing the one percent.
While polls are vexing to me, I can understand the ap-
peal they offer to candidates who see them as a crystal 
ball, capable of being used as a way to divine thoughts 
from the electorate. But the amount of political reposition-ing being done this cycle could very well be caused by the growing importance of polls. With one of the largest Re-
publican fields in recent memory, polling has been a way 
to assess a candidate’s viability of winning the primary. An example of this would be the dividing of the Repub-lican debates into undercard and prime-time debates re-spectively. There are also the ever-needed donations that 
campaigns need to survive, as well as endorsements from 
influential people and organizations. Not many people are going to give time, money or their reputation to support a candidate that is polling at less than one percent.
For candidates that do not have an iota of policy experi-
ence, such as Donald Trump, the polls become a point of legitimacy. If more than a third of a party’s primary voters support him, that clearly shows he is a winner in his eyes, even though not a single vote has been cast yet.
On the opposite side of the ideological spectrum, Hill-
ary Clinton tends to maneuver politics and policy proposal with the ebb and flow of her poll numbers compared to Sanders. If Sanders releases a plan to make higher educa-
tion free, or at least cheaper, Clinton will often release a 
policy plan that is similar but not as radical.These uses for polls are not inherently 
wrong. In fact, they are pragmatic ways of look-ing at polls, but we begin to go off the rails as 
polls try to pit candidates from different parties 
— such as Sanders and Trump — against each other. These polls stake a lot of claim, but the primary season is not even close to being over. 
The Republican Party is having an identity crisis 
that could possibly split the party in two, while the Democratic candidates have to make strong 
decisions that cast them in an individualistic light. We have ten months until November, and within that time- 
frame, anything can happen.
Although polls are becoming more commonplace in the 
American election cycle, the way polling is done is in cri-
sis. The popularity of cellphones over landlines — coupled 
with the growing lack of responsiveness of possible voters 
to participate in polling — have effectively made polling a much more expensive and arguably less accurate and sci-entific approach to identifying electoral patterns. As Cliff Zukin, a former president of the American Association for 
Public Opinion Research, wrote in The New York Times, 
“(w)e are less sure how to conduct good survey research now than we were four years ago, and much less than eight years ago.”  
Pollsters must obviously find a solution to this crisis, or 
else polls will not be worth the airtime or respect they are given. Recent polls predicting election results, such as the one in the UK last year, were extremely wrong. This pres-ents the major point I am trying to get across: Polls can 
help understand the current political environment only to 
a certain point. If you want to find a winner for the general election in January, a crystal ball would be just as helpful as any poll by CNN or Fox News.  
Kevin Foster is a UF political science senior. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
Guest column
A Donald Trump presiden-
cy would be a nightmare-come true for the entire entertainment world. Does this seem like too 
bold of a statement? Maybe. Did Trump initially seem too bold of a presidential candidate for this overly sensitive country? Sure. The crazy thing, despite Holly-wood’s incessant preventative ef-forts, is that it could totally happen.
First off, a “President Trump” does not 
mean any famous person who can gar-
ner enough support can suddenly become 
president. It doesn’t work that way. Donald Trump is legitimate, while Wiz Khalifa will never be commander-in-chief of this great nation. Sorry.
Is Kanye West really going to run for 
president one day? Was Will Smith really joking when he said he’d consider making a political run himself? You can speculate 
all you want, but the truth is that a Presi-
dent Trump would not suddenly open the magical, mahogany doors of the political world for celebrities. Unless Kanye West de-stroys ISIS, re-establishes peace in the Mid-dle East and saves the environment in the next few years, look me in the eye and say Mr. West’s resume is even comparable to Donald Trump’s to be commander-in-chief. 
Donald Trump is an immensely successful, 
self-made business icon first and a celebrity second.
A President Trump would teach Hol-
lywood and the media that they are not in control of this country, like they seem to think they are.
Hollywood is scared. The media is hor-
rified. What started as a famous person’s 
outlandish run for the Oval Office is now 
a real possibility. Mainstream media keeps waiting for Trump’s campaign to go down in flames, but the poll numbers keep doing the opposite.
Americans from both sides of the politi-
cal spectrum are flocking to Trump. Why? Because he’s a familiar face, a massive suc-cess and a true leader who doesn’t care for 
politics. The media can keep portraying him 
as a babbling fool and cantankerous catas-trophe, and Hollywood can keep denying his success as being real, but it appears that he’s not going away. According to the most recent NBC News poll (for the last week of December 2015), Trump is currently bring-ing in an impressive 35-percent support. Texas Sen. Ted Cruz is in second place with 18 percent.
In an interview with the To-
day Show, actor Will Smith — the Fresh Prince himself — was asked 
about Trump. “There ain’t gonna 
be no President Trump in 2020,” Smith responded. Keep telling yourself that, Mr. Smith. You never know.
It doesn’t take a genius to real-
ize the mainstream media tends to lean left and the vast majority of our country’s en-tertainers think more liberally. Oprah cam-
paigned with Obama, but did you see any A-
Listers extolling the virtues of Mitt Romney? Obama was the hip youngster from Chicago, while — as author Ben Shapiro states in an interview with C-SPAN — “virtually every Republican looks like the assistant high school principal.” Image matters tremen-dously when you’re running for president, and up until Donald Trump, there hadn’t 
been many “cool and different” candidates 
on the Republican side of the aisle.
Celebrities in general like to think the 
rest of America shares their views on ev-erything. If Donald Trump enters the Oval Office in 2017, we will all know that this is not the case. The most influential actors/ac-tresses, musicians and personalities in our country may be the most publicized, vocal 
and universally heard people in our society, 
but they can’t be assumed as having the views of the majority. As a country, we are far more diverse than what a small class of wealthy artisans says we are.
Trump is by no means relatable for the 
average American. He’s a billionaire who probably hasn’t eaten a Big Mac or stepped foot in a Wal-Mart in his entire existence. 
If the Republican primary was tomorrow, I 
couldn’t tell you whom I’d vote for. But un-like most of the media and Facebook politi-cians, I believe Trump is at least worth an honest look. He’s genuine, assertive and just as sick and tired of aimless politics as most Americans, as poll numbers are showing. A president like Donald Trump would not only shake Hollywood and the mainstream 
media up quite a bit, but it would also give 
them a much-needed reality check.
Imagining a world without media bias 
may seem difficult, but if Donald Trump can make a legitimate White House run, I would say anything is possible.
Andrew Hall is a UF finance sophomore. 
His column appears on Thursdays.Donald Trump isn’t going away Column
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgIt’s more likely than not ev-
ery person in the world has, at least once, seen a tree. 
As human beings, we can-
not live without trees: They 
clean our air, provide oxygen, conserve energy, save water, 
prevent water pollution and soil 
erosion, offer food and healing and create economic opportuni-ties. I could go on, noting how they create a canopy and habitat for wildlife, provide 
wood and combat climate change. This last 
one is particularly critical, as the Paris Cli-mate Change Conference attested to it. As stated by Trust for Public Land, a nonprofit 
organization dedicated to conserving land, 
“a single grown tree can release enough oxygen back into the atmosphere to sup-port two human beings.” 
What we can read from Wikipedia about 
a tree fails to do it justice. There is no uni-versally recognized — either botanically or in common language — definition for what constitutes a tree, but in its broadest sense, 
a tree is any plant with the general form of 
an elongated stem, or trunk, that supports the photosynthetic leaves or branches at some distance above the ground. From a more scientific understanding, Society 
of American Forester defined a tree as a 
woody perennial plant, typically large and with a well-defined stem or stems carrying a more or less definite crown. No matter 
which definition we use to clarify exactly 
what a tree is, the most important thing is that the world can agree on the benefits of trees themselves.
Florida, which has approximately 17.3 
million acres of forests, will commemorate Florida Arbor Day, an annual observance that celebrates the role trees play in our lives, on Jan. 15. The holiday is meant to 
promote tree planting and care. 
We should thank Julius Sterling Morton, 
a journalist and nature lover, who came up 
with the idea to plant trees in Nebraska when he noticed there were virtually no 
trees there in 1854. Later, the State Board 
of Agriculture accepted Morton’s resolu-tion on April 10, 1872, by planting one mil-lion trees in Nebraska in honor of the first 
Arbor Day. Now, all 50 states in the U.S. have official Arbor Days aimed 
to take the correct climatological conditions for planting trees into 
consideration. Tallahassee, Flor-
ida’s state capital, has its ideal tree planting period in January; therefore, Florida’s Arbor Day is 
celebrated on the third Friday of 
the month every year. 
This tradition is not restricted 
to the U.S. More than 30 countries also cel-ebrate the day (or at least something very 
similar) as stated by the Arbor Day Foun-
dation, a nonprofit conservation and edu-cation organization, on its website (arbor-day.org). My country of origin, Indonesia, 
also celebrates a similar movement, called 
Hari Menanam Pohon Indonesia (Indone-sia Planting Trees’ Day), every Nov.  28.
So, then, what can we do during Florida 
Arbor Day to combat climate change? We 
should support the “one person, one tree” 
movement. Imagine all Floridians planting trees at the same time during Florida Ar-bor Day. This would mean 16 million new, 
fertile trees. In line with what American 
Forestry Association Tree Facts: Growing Greener Cities stated in 1992, “(i)f every American family planted just one tree, the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere would 
be reduced by one billion lbs. annually. 
This is almost five percent of the amount that human activity pumps into the atmo-sphere each year.” Many institutions in 
Florida celebrate the holiday, such as the 
Florida Forest Service’s announcement to plant more than two million new trees on more than 3,000 acres of state forests this year. 
What are we waiting for? Let’s do a 
small, kind action and participate in Flor-ida Arbor Day tomorrow to have a cleaner environment and a better quality of life.
Hermudananto is a UF forest resources 
and conservation master’s student.Trees combat climate change
Hermudananto
Speaking Out
“The holiday is 
meant to promote tree 
planting and care.”8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016
Photos by Emma Green / Alligator Staff
GETTING SOME AIR 
ABOVE:
T ori Hall, a 20-year-old UF exercise physiology junior, tries her hand at different acrobatic yoga 
poses, such as the star and the scorpion, with Chris De Vilbiss. De Vilbiss, who claims to be the “age of the universe, ” is a UF environmental engineering doctoral student and an instructor at S-Connec-tion Aerial Arts. 
LEFT:
Samantha Pope, a 21-year-old psychology and dance UF alumna, balances atop Luis Searcy, a 26-year-
old UF chemistry graduate student. Practicing their aerial act, the acrobatic yoga pair attempted the star pose on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday.
IT DISCUSSED HEALTH 
CARE, CHILD CRIMINALS 
AND MINORITIES.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
knewberg@alligator.org
@k_newberg
About 100 UF students and Gainesville 
residents discussed Alachua’s criminal jus-
tice system Wednesday night.
Three panelists spoke at the Bob Gra-
ham Center for Public Service’s event in Pugh Hall about providing more services for mental health, keeping children out of 
adult courts and the high number of minori-
ties in Alachua’s jails.
Tony Jones, the Gainesville police chief, 
said there should be a more open dialogue between police and Alachua residents. 
He said a large number of minorities in 
Alachua are arrested every year.
“I began to see a pattern,” he said. “I be-
gin to see, particularly with youth, a dispro-
portional number of children of color being 
arrested in Gainesville.”
Stacy Scott, the public defender for Ala-
chua’s eighth judicial circuit, said prosecu-tors shouldn’t have the final say in juve-
niles being tried in adult courts.“No one person should get to choose 
whether a child’s life gets thrown away into 
the adult system,” she said. “Kids make de-
cisions at age 14, 15 and 16 that they would 
never make at age 45 and age 50.”
Steve Pittman, the chief operating officer 
for Meridian Behavioral Healthcare, said 
there should be more funding for mental 
health care in Florida’s criminal justice sys-tem. 
He said after people leave jail, there 
needs to be a plan to help them.
“The lucky ones have a family, but 
there’s a lot of unlucky ones that don’t have 
that support system,” he said.
Ramsey Touchberry, 20, asked Jones 
about police raids on underage drinkers in Midtown bars during the question-and-
answer session allowing the panelists’ speeches.
“It feels like we are incriminating a 
bunch of our youth that don’t necessar-ily need to be,” the UF telecommunication sophomore said.Panelists speak on Alachua’s 
criminal justice systemTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
LOS ANGELES — Trips to the veterinarian 
leave Joy so scared, she gets sick.
The black Lab-mix dog shakes and shiv-
ers, her heart rate jumps, her blood pressure 
spikes, her temperature rises, her eyes dilate and she cowers under anything she can get 
beneath.
After trying vet after vet for 14 years, the 
dog’s owner Debby Trinen of Sandpoint, 
Idaho, has finally found relief for Joy’s stress 
from a new approach to veterinary care called 
“fear-free.”
The fear-free movement aims to eliminate 
things in the vet’s office that bother dogs and 
cats — like white lab coats, harsh lights and 
slippery, cold exam tables — while adding 
things they like.
For example, a fear-free clinic “will have a 
big treat budget,” said Dr. Marty Becker, the 
initiative’s main cheerleader and the vet cho-
sen to introduce it to the country.
About 50 practices across the country have 
gone fear-free, Becker said. Later this year, the 
initiative will start certifying veterinary profes-sionals. The certification takes about 12 hours 
of online instruction. The movement hopes to 
register as many as 5,000 people this year.
Hospital certification could start in 2018, 
followed by animal shelters and homes, Beck-
er said.
A fear-free vet might also use sedatives or 
pheromones — chemicals secreted by ani-mals that serve as stimulants for many things, including mating — rather than muzzles or restraints to keep animals calm during treat-ment, Becker said.
“Twenty-five to 30 percent of pets need se-
dation,” Becker said.
Becker introduced veterinarians to the 
fear-free initiative at the North American Vet-erinary Community convention last year. He’s presenting version 2.0 at the 2016 conference beginning Saturday in Florida.
Becker, chief veterinary correspondent for 
the American Humane Association, has writ-ten 22 books and is writing the 23rd on the fear-free initiative.
Becker says the initiative is important be-
cause stress and anxiety cause so many prob-lems for pets, both physical and mental.
“Once pets know fear and anxiety and 
stress, you can’t undo it,” he said, adding, “You can see it. You can smell it because dogs are stained with their own saliva from licking themselves. You can hear it and feel it.”
Stress and fear can lead animals to hide 
the symptoms that prompted the vet visit, and may even alter their test results, said Richard A. LeCouteur, a veterinarian with a specialty in neurology and a professor emeritus at the University of California at Davis’ School of Veterinary Medicine.
Talmadge says the fear-free approach is 
proving popular. “We have more than dou-bled our business through that clinic since opening (in April) and are well ahead of where we thought we would be,” Talmadge said.‘Fear-free’ vets for pet stress
“I begin to see, particularly with youth, 
a disproportional number of children 
of color being arrested in Gainesville.”
T ony Jones
Gainesville police chiefKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
GNV bar celebrates David Bowie
Arcade Bar hosts costume party, pg 12.What’s Inside: 
Mediocre Advice, pg 10.GNV Twitter Accounts, pg 11.THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Kayla Ziadie
Avenue Writer
Each year for the past 10 years, 
High Dive has booked Sublime tribute band Badﬁ  sh. On Tues-day, the band will be returning to Gainesville.
Badﬁ  sh has been the most 
popular tribute band over the past decade for Glory Days Presents, a local promotion company.
“We have booked them every 
year for over 10 years now be-cause the Gainesville crowd cannot get enough of them,” Pat Lavery, the owner of Glory Days Presents, wrote in an email.The band is currently on its 
“Doin’ Time” tour, performing songs from Sublime’s 1996 self-titled album.
Drummer Scott Begin and bass-
ist Joel Hanks were brought to-gether by a computer science class at the University of Rhode Island. The two were fans of Sublime and would play music together, trying out different musical ideas.
“We would jam out a lot, then 
the idea of doing a Sublime tribute surfaced,” Begin said. “We decid-ed just to try it out and see how it would go over. That’s really what kicked it off.”
The ﬁ  rst show they put together in 2001 was well-received with a large audience. They kept playing shows as their fan base grew over the next couple of years. It was then that the band decided to go full time.
Begin said they tend to stick to 
the original sound of Sublime’s al-bums, but they allow for different variations on the set list, much like Sublime would do.
“We will pull from different 
variations that Sublime would per-form live,” Begin said. “I think the people who know the album ver-sion of songs are deﬁ  nitely not dis-appointed.”
Lavery said many die-hard Sub-lime fans prefer Badﬁ  sh over the current Sublime with Rome lineup, a musical collaboration with for-mer Sublime bassist Eric Wilson and singer Rome Ramirez.
“Because their sound is so 
similar to the original Sublime re-cordings, you can close your eyes and imagine Bradley Nowell is on stage,” Lavery said.
Badﬁ  sh has gained such popu-
larity that they even reached Sub-lime and were able to play with Sublime’s original drummer, Bud Gaugh.
Begin considers it to be the 
band’s biggest accomplishment.
“When we were out west over 
the past year, we did a few shows with Bud,” Begin said. “We actu-ally put together a show this past June at the House of Blues in Ana-heim, and he played the drums for us the whole night.”
Begin said it feels good to know 
one of the original Sublime mem-bers loves what they’re doing enough to play a whole set with them.
“Me, being a drummer, it was a 
really cool thing for me to sit back and get to watch him play with my bandmates, playing this incredible music that he was a part of creating in the ﬁ  rst place,” Begin said. “It was really complimentary to what we were doing; it was a lot of fun.”
Badﬁ  sh will perform at High 
Dive, situated at 210 SW Second Ave., on Tuesday. Doors open at 8 p.m., and the show begins at 8:30 p.m. Tickets range from $12 to $18. 
Badﬁ  sh: A Tribute to Sublime ready for High Dive performanceCourtesy to the Alligator
Sublime tribute band Badﬁ  sh is returning to High Dive on Tuesday. Doors open at 8 p.m., and the show starts at 8:30 p.m. 
“W e would jam out a lot, then the idea of doing a Sublime tribute surfaced.”
Scott Begin, Drummer
They played with Sublime’s drummerTHURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   FRIDAY, JANUARY 15
THIS WEEKEND IN GAINESVILLE/uni2219 dance /uni2219 film /uni2219 music /uni2219 art /uni2219 theatre /uni2219 /uni2219 theatre /uni2219 art /uni2219 music /uni2219 film /uni2219 dance /uni2219
Vocalosity Acapella Show
Phillips Center for 
Performing Arts
3201 Hull Road
7:30 p.m.  | $25-$50SATURDAY, JANUARY 16 SUNDAY, JANUARY 17
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   
Emanuel Torres Pérez 
The Historic 
Thomas Center
302 NE 6th Ave. 
7:30 p.m. | Free “Breathe”
Phillips Center for 
Performing Arts 
3201 Hull Road
7:30 p.m. | $20-$30
Marley the Messenger 
Album Release 
Show at The Jam
817 W. University Ave. 
10 p.m. | $8 at the door Live Music
The Soft Moon, UV-TV and 
Ghost Fields at The Atlantic
15 N. Main Street
9 p.m. | $10
Collected Stories
The Hippodrome
25 SE 2nd Place
7:00 p.m. | $17 students
$32 regularWe’re back with plenty of half-
baked advice for everyone. From boyfriend probs to questions 
about how to plot revenge against 
your annoying, snack-stealing 
roommate, Mediocre Advice has got your back. Send your questions to mediocre.
alligator.advice@gmail.com and together 
we’ll ﬁ  nd solutions to your dilemmas and have some fun along the way. 
Dear Mediocre Advice,
On New Year’s Eve, I met this really cute girl after 
a fun night of drinking and dancing. 
We talked brieﬂ  y after the club let out. I found 
out she lives on the West Coast and got her number without even asking. 
Excited, I texted back the next day. No response. 
Then, a few hours later. Zilch. 
I gave it another three days before one last text and 
still nothing. What gives? Should I just let it go?
- Dazed and Confused
Dear Dazed and Confused,
Have you ever heard the phrase “She’s just not that into you?”  Unfortunately, it is a trend among women to have a great time, send all of the wrong signals and then just shut 
you down. 
BOOM! 
Here’s what I can say to you — ﬁ  rstly, 
stop texting! I know, I know, it’s a 
millennial thing, but sometimes you just 
need to take the plunge and make a phone call. We XX chromosomes are complicated — we like both. If the texting situation is stale on the home front, pick up the phone 
and cross your ﬁ  ngers. If she doesn’t answer, leave a message. 
I would give her approximately 24 hours to answer 
that message via call or text, and if she doesn’t, leave 
her in the past where girls like her belong. Also, she 
lives on the West-freaking-Coast. I don’t think the spark is gonna burn that far!
Grab a few comrades and hit the bars on Saturdays 
when the drinks are free and ladies are plentiful. 
You’ll probably meet some Tiffany or Heather that’ll 
make you forget all about that West Coast has-been.
Sincerely,MediocreJulia 
Nevins
Avenue WriterBy Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
If you’re on Twitter, you know two things: It can 
be both helpful and a great source of laughs. As a 
self-proclaimed Twitter guru, I’ve been able to com-pile a list of UF- and Gainesville-related accounts you should be following if you aren’t already.
@UFProbsThe account tweets and quotes problems from UF 
students, ranging from RTS not showing up to receiv-ing countless UFPD text alerts you’ll deﬁ  nitely relate to.
@HeardInMidtownOverheard In Midtown is the most slept-on Twitter 
account, in my opinion. This account tweets hilarious conversations that are, well, overheard in Midtown. Give it a follow right now!
@GACSmarttrafﬁ  cI can’t count how many times I was able to avoid 
trafﬁ  c around Gainesville because of this account. GAC Smarttrafﬁ  c tweets accidents, construction, the location of heavy trafﬁ  c and when it clears so you 
can avoid being stuck around town. This account is 
extremely helpful.@DD_GainesvilleDespite my bias being #TeamDunkin, the Twitter 
account for Dunkin’ Donuts Gainesville is a great fol-
low. It frequently tweets sweepstakes that are easy to 
enter. You can win $25, $50 and even $100 toward any Dunkin’ Donuts location.
@UF_PartyTutorIf you’re a UF student, you most likely already 
have UF Party Tutor downloaded, but nonetheless, this Twitter account will keep you up-to-date on deals and events at local bars and restaurants.
@UFWeather
This account title is self-explanatory. It tweets 
weather updates at UF. Follow it so you don’t get caught in the rain between classes.
@GainesvilleGoing to Midtown or downtown every weekend 
can get old, so the ofﬁ  cial “Visit Gainesville” page 
tweets upcoming events you need to switch up your 
routine. Gainesville has so much more to offer than partying. This account is a must-follow if you’re look-ing for something new to do.
@UF_SGUF Student Government is responsible for so much 
of what goes on at UF, so follow this account to see what is happening around campus.GNV must-follow Twitter accounts 
Mediocre Advice: NYE ﬂ  ings, bars 
COLUMNBy Erica Pope
Avenue Writer
News of David Bowie’s death 
Monday sent shock waves all over 
the world, including right here in the Gainesville community.
Fans looking to celebrate the 
late singer’s life don’t have to travel farther than the local bar scene in downtown Gainesville.
Arcade Bar plans to bid farewell 
to the star in true Bowie fashion: with a costume tribute party Thurs-day. The local bar, situated at 6 E. University Ave., aims to celebrate the songster with a night of Bowie music, fashion and ﬁ  lm starting at 10 p.m.
James “Jimbo” Rountree said he decided to create an event after noticing a few Bowie events around town following the singer’s death.
“I thought that a costume party 
would be a little more engaging,” the 28-year-old bar manager said. 
“And embody a lot of what people 
enjoy about David Bowie.”
He said he really wanted to do it 
this week, because everyone is re-ﬂ  ecting on Bowie.
Rountree said the bar plans to 
put Bowie-inspired drinks together for the costume party.
“One of them is Major Tom Col-
lins and probably a Space Oddity Shot,” he said.
Chad Darby, a local disc jockey, 
said he aims to keep partygoers en-tertained with a mix of the singer’s deep cuts, big hits and music within the glam rock genre, as well as some of his later releases.
Darby named Bowie as an inﬂ  u-
ential factor for his choice to work in music. 
“The ﬁ  rst 45 my father gave me 
when I started collecting records, he gave me a ‘Space Oddity’ 45 single,” the 34-year-old said.
Darby said it was one of the ﬁ  rst 
things he owned that his father gave him, and he still listens to it today. He hopes attendees enjoy the party and celebrate the life of the late singer.
Fans set to attend the event remi-
nisced about what Bowie meant to them and what they plan to wear.
Daniel Cheney, 20, said he plans 
on dressing up as the Thin White Duke.
“I like costume parties in gen-
eral,” the UF ﬁ  nance junior said. Cheney hopes to connect with other 
Bowie fans and discuss the late sing-
er’s music.
“Most people my age listen to 
EDM or rap,” he said. “And I listen to David Bowie.”
Cheney recalls hearing “Chang-
es’” in second grade, when he re-ceived his ﬁ  rst MP3 player.
“I had 13 songs and that was one 
of them,” he said. “It’s just one of my favorites.”
Cheney said he believes Bowie stood for people who felt isolated.
Megan Newsome, a UF astrono-
my and physics sophomore, identi-
ﬁ  ed “Space Oddity” as one of her 
favorite Bowie songs and said he impacted how her ﬁ  eld of study is viewed. 
“Science geeks in general love 
David Bowie,” the 19-year-old said. “He was the geek of music and made things like space and weird-ness cool.”
She said Bowie made it OK to live 
life authentically.
“A lot of people get really anx-
ious just thinking about it,” New-some said. “Thinking I don’t know who I am, or which gender is right for me or if I can be one gender and dress differently. And it’s kind of cool whenever someone like David 
Bowie comes back into the general 
eye and people think it doesn’t mat-ter.”
By Veronica Garcia
Avenue Writer
University Galleries at UF opened its most 
recent exhibit Monday, showcasing the work of artist Carl Knickerbocker.
“Videos from a Twilight Suburb: Carl Knick-
erbocker” runs through Feb. 12 in the Gary R. 
Libby Gallery located on UF’s campus in Fine 
Arts Building C. A reception will be held for the exhibition from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Friday.
Alexis Schuman, an art and art history ma-
jor at UF, helps put the gallery together. She is currently in the museum studies masters pro-gram, which involves an assistantship in the gallery.
When Knickerbocker submitted a proposal 
for the show, Schuman and others reviewed his work and were impressed.
“So we offered him a slot, and after that, we 
started to plan the show,” Schuman said.
The New York native, now 61, said he 
moved to Florida in 1970. He later coined himself a self-taught “suburban primitive art-ist” from Central Florida. The artist said he got started by learning how to draw by himself.
“I don’t have a degree in art; I am a self 
taught artist,” he said. “I have a sociology de-gree so it makes sense to become a visual art-ist.”
The artist got into painting in the early ‘90s 
after he read a book review from the Orlando Sentinel. It was a how-to book called “Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain.”
“I think I was looking for something to do 
creatively, and I got the book and that’s how my art journey got going,” Knickerbocker said.
For about three years in the early ‘90s, 
Knickerbocker held live art shows at Café Tu Tu Tango in Orlando. He later received the Florida Individual Artist Fellowship Grant in 1995 and the United Arts of Central Florida In-dividual Artist Grant in 1998.
“I was encouraged by a peer to apply for 
this grant, which I had never heard of before,” he said, “and evidently someone in the pan-el — or at least one person — thought I was worth awarding their grant.”
It was $5,000.In the early 2000s, Knickerbocker began 
making art cars. He is now well known for his Honda Element art cars.
“I had an old pick-up truck and an artist 
friend said to paint the truck like I did as a painting,” he said, “and someone said to take it to the Houston Art Car Parade.”Knickerbocker started getting into short 
ﬁ  lms in early 2000s including his piece called “Twilight Suburb,” which will be displayed at 
the gallery.
In the late ‘90s, the artist had a project in 
his back pocket. He said he was approached 
by publishing company Simon & Schuster to write and draw the illustrations for a children’s picture book. Although the company ultimate-ly did not accept the book, Knickerbocker end-ed up turning it into one of his short ﬁ  lms, “A Dog Goes From Here to There.”
The ﬁ  ve-minute-long ﬁ  lm took two years to 
make and required a lot of work and help, he said. The ﬁ  nal project was picked up and taken to festivals.
Schuman described Knickerbocker’s artistic 
style as having a folk-art feel but with an un-derlying trend of ﬁ  ne objects.
“Bright, beautiful colors and hidden ico-
nography,” she said. “It is a very fun, interac-
tive and tangible type of art that he does.”
Knickerbocker’s display is ready for 
Gainesville, and Schuman expects people are 
going to have their horizons broadened.
“We haven’t had a show like his in the time 
that I have been at UF,” Schuman said.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator
University Galleries at UF has opened its latest exhibit, “Videos from a Twilight Suburb: Carl Knickerbocker. ”  The exhibit 
will run through Feb. 12 with an opening reception at 7 p.m. Friday.
Bar celebrates life of David Bowie with costume party
UF gallery displays visual artist’s work at latest exhibit
MUSICTonight at Arcade Bar
“I thought that a costume 
party would be a little more 
engaging, and embody a lot 
of what people enjoy about 
David Bowie.”
James “Jimbo” Rountree
bar managerTHURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
By Kemi Thomas
Avenue Writer
The Gainesville Arts Market is back for 
the new year and once again putting some 
of the ﬁ  nest local artists on display.
The showcase will be this Saturday in 
the South Main Arts District of downtown 
Gainesville from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
The event has become a staple in the 
Gainesville community and occurs every 
month. The market’s mission has been to showcase “innovation, culture and creativi-ty,” according to its website, while support-ing local businesses in the process.
Previously a part of Artwalk, the Arts 
Market moved to the South Mains Arts Dis-
trict parking lot in September 2015.
“The Gainesville Arts Market was set-
ting up on property that was earmarked 
for Artwalk, though we thought there was an understanding in place with the local businesses,” said Heather Montgomery, Gainesville Art Scene’s organizational as-sistant.
“It’s unfortunate, because the energy of 
this group brought a liveliness to the face of Artwalk in a completely underutilized area,” she said.
However, not all is lost, as the Arts Mar-
ket still brings in great energy at its new location. One artist that showcases that is Brian Wilson.
Wilson, a part-time artist who works as 
a counselor at Meridian Behavioral Health-
care during the day, creates paintings under 
the name Vibe Inherent. Typically, he uses powdered crystals and energy to create his pieces.
“I think with SoMA taking a huge risk, it 
just created and ﬁ  lled a niche that was long overdue,” Wilson said of the expansion of the South Main Arts District.
“Gainesville is such an artistic, creative 
and expressive community anyway, it’s nice to kind of localize it in an area that’s up and coming,” he said. The Arts Market’s hand in supporting local artists can also help boost the economy. According to a study by the Americans for the Arts organi-zation, more than $85 million was spent on the arts in Alachua County alone in 2010.
Katrina Benzihram, a former chemistry 
major at UF, currently owns an artisan soap company named Lather and Suds Soap.
She uses oils — such as castor and avo-
cado oil — to make her animal- and vege-table-based soaps, and has also added wax melts to her collection.
“Probably my favorite thing about this 
is it brings all different people from all ages and disciplines into one area and it allows 
them to communicate and network, and 
that’s really important for a community like Gainesville that’s growing,” Benzihram said.
In the past, the event has also included 
food and local indie bands to provide enter-tainment during the show.
The event  — which Wilson describes 
as one where people can “learn something 
new, appreciate something new and where 
there is something for everybody” — is free and open to the public.Gainesville 
Arts Market to showcase local artists
MUSIC
By Kuvira Sanichara
Avenue Writer
Local band Savants of Soul surprised 
UF students with a pop-up performance 
Wednesday.
The band appeared suited up at 1 p.m. in 
front of Leigh Hall on the Plaza of the Ameri-
cas to play for students hanging out and en-
joying their lunches.
One of the band’s lead singers, Chelsea 
Oxendine, joked that they were there to let UF students know they exist.
“We want to share what we have with 
them,” Oxendine said.
But there was more to the secret pop-up 
performance than just getting their name 
out. The band also celebrated the launch of 
their new single debuting on iTunes, Sound-Cloud and Spotify on Wednesday. The song “Second Chance Lover” was the last song they performed to break the news to their audience. Although the entire band could not make it, six of the 10 members put on an acoustic performance featuring four of their songs.
“It was a different feel,” said Danielle 
Howard, a UF alumni, regarding their deci-sion to perform acoustically. “You can hear each individual part a little better.”
Howard, the girlfriend of the band’s trom-
bonist Jason Beverung, is no stranger to the band’s live show. She said their music brings back the ‘60s with a very wide appeal.
“You can’t hear their music and not 
dance,” she said. “You just forget everything and have a good time.”
That was exactly the intention of the band 
today. Falling in the soul genre, the band’s music is geared toward an audience seeking “feel-good” music. They hoped to add some feeling to the students at UF in the middle of the day and week. Oxendine said their mu-sic is all about loving yourself and they hope 
their listeners will feel the love as well.
“I think that’s what soul music is all 
about,” Oxendine said. “I really hope that our music can help people through things.”
Oxendine has been singing all her life; she 
started with classical and recently shifted to 
soul and pop vocals. She calls joining the band her biggest achievement.
“It’s literally so exciting for me, because 
I’ve never had a song on iTunes,” she added with excitement.
The band’s second album is currently in 
the works. Their rising success also includes opening for the hit soul singer Charles Brad-ley on Feb. 25.
UF telecommunication applications ana-
lyst Brandon Telg was among the members of the audience. Telg frequently views local band perfor-
mances and came across The Savants of Soul 
one night.
“The ﬁ  rst time I saw them perform I was 
like, ‘Wait a minute; is that Alex and Jus-
tin?’” Telg said.
Drummer Alex Klausner and the other 
lead singer Justin McKenzie attended high school with Telg. Regardless of their ac-quaintance, Telg said he would watch every one of their performances.
“I hope to see them on festival lineups. I 
know they would rock it anywhere they go,” Telg said.
The band thanked their audience for be-
ing there and announced their next local per-formance at The Atlantic Nightspot, located at 15 N. Main St., on Jan. 16.
Savants of Soul plays pop-up show at UF
Kuvira Sanichara / Alligator
Oxendine and McKenzie celebrate their new single, “Second Chance Lover, ” 
which was released on iTunes and Spotify Wednesday. 
Kuvira Sanichara / Alligator
Chelsea Oxendine and Justin McKenzie, lead vocalists for Savants of Soul, perform on Plaza of the Americas Wednesday.
Gainesville Arts 
Market back to showcase local artists
It celebrates new single releaseTHURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Avail Aug 1st. 3BR/3BA nice house, 9 blocks 
from campus. Wood floors, W/D incl, pri-vate backyard. $1150/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. Call or text 352-339-2342. More houses at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 1-20-15-23-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles 12 AutosTHURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       1-6-15-36-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Designated drivers are the greatest
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10 hr + INCENTIVE + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
Apply at https://jobs.ufl.edu/
4-20-71-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-15-15-9-14
Experienced Cook Wanted
Cafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
TYPIST FOR PROFESSIONALOFFICE. MUST TYPE 60 WPM
Send resume to dawnbkrop@gmail.com
1-20-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 24 Pets
Headline
Story description Pg#
The Gators softball team is 
looking to fill the void left by former pitcher Lauren Haeger. Read the story on pg. 18.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Three UF lax players named preseason All-Americans
Florida's Caroline Fitzgerald (First T eam), Mollie Stevens (Second T eam)  and 
T aylor Bresnahan (Second T eam) were named preseason All-Americans by 
Inside Lacrosse.TWO JUNIORS ARE PROJECTED 
AS HIGH FIRST-ROUND MLB 
DRAFT PICKS.
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Staff Writer
@Pinakk12
Florida’s rotation figures to be one of the 
best in the nation.
Though nine of UF’s pitchers from last sea-
son aren’t on this year’s roster, the Gators have 
added a few freshmen arms and will look to 
other returning pitchers to help carry the load 
and lock down bullpen duty.
Ultimately, Florida should see success be-
hind the arms of its starting pitchers.
Let’s start with the key returners:1. Logan Shore, RHP2015: 11-6, 2.72 ERA
Shore is the epitome of consistency.In his first two years in UF’s rotation, Shore 
has put together back-to-back seasons of sub-three ERAs, going 18-10 through 208 innings.
He will likely be on the bump Friday nights 
once again this season, and head coach Kevin O’Sullivan should look to hand him the ball for Florida’s biggest games, just as he did in 2015.
And it isn’t all that hard to put the game 
in Shore’s hands. During 2015 NCAA Tourna-ment play, the Coon Rapids, Minnesota, native went 4-0 with a 2.45 ERA in 22 innings.
2. A.J. Puk, LHP2015: 9-4, 3.81 ERA
Mentioned by many as the potential No. 1 
overall pick in the 2016 MLB Draft, the 6-foot-7 junior will likely slot in as the No. 2 starter for 
the Gators.
Puk’s sophomore campaign was two differ-
ent seasons within one. Through his first 38.1 
innings, Puk compiled an ugly 5.20 ERA. But following a suspension and an arrest in April, the Cedar Rapids, Iowa, native turned his sea-son around.    In his final 39.2 innings, Puk put together a sparkling 1.84 ERA while amassing 59 strikeouts.
If Puk can roll over his second half domi-
nance into 2016, there’s no reason the flame-thrower can’t help lead Florida back to the NCAA College World Series as one of the top arms in the country.
3. Alex Faedo, RHP2015: 6-1, 3.23 ERA
The No. 3 spot in the rotation could be up 
for grabs this season, but Faedo has the num-
bers to support his case.
The 6-foot-5 sophomore tallied the third-
most wins out of UF’s returners and with 59 
whiffs in 61.1 innings, Faedo struck out nearly one batter per inning. The Tampa native also  UF pitching staff brings experienced arms, talented newcomer
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writer
@ebaueri
The Gators have had success this season by 
playing balanced basketball, and they’re about to meet a team that does the same. 
The rival Georgia Bulldogs (12-4, 0-3 South-
eastern Conference) will travel south of the 
state line to face off against No. 20 Florida (14-2, 2-1 SEC) at 7 p.m. in the O’Connell Center, 
and they bring their own balanced style of play with them.
As far as scoring goes, the Bulldogs are led 
by Tiaria Griffin and her 13.7 points per game. Two other players also average double figures for UGA, with 12.6 and 11.6, respectively. 
“When you have a team that has three or 
four or five candidates to score 20 on any given 
night or to have a double-double on any given night, I think it makes the challenge much 
greater," UF head coach Amanda Butler said about Georgia’s balanced attack. "And that challenge certainly exists.”
Florida also has three players averaging 
double-figures in scoring, but they don’t aver-age as many points — all of them fall between 10 and 11. 
However, the Gators do feature six players 
averaging between six and 10 points per game, compared to the Bulldogs’ three.  
While both teams manage to give multiple 
players the opportunity to score, one area the two teams differ is in scoring offense. Florida is the fifth-best team in the nation in that cat-egory, averaging 85.3 points per game. Geor-gia, on the other hand, ranks No. 123 with 67.7 points per game. 
And Florida’s high-scoring offense is not a 
product of an easy pre-SEC schedule, either. In three SEC games so far, UF is averaging 76.3 points, still good for No. 32 overall. 
Georgia, on the other hand, has struggled in 
SEC play so far — especially on offense. 
Granted, the Bulldogs have played against 
No. 9 Kentucky, No. 15 Texas A&M and No. 24 Missouri. Still, their average of 54.3 points UF women's hoops to face similar style in visiting BulldogsJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF's Logan Shore pitches during Florida's 14-3 win against South Carolina on April 
10 at McKethan Stadium.
Georgia is 0-3 in SEC playMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
Florida has not hesitated to be honest this season.
On Tuesday the honesty came from Justin Leon, whose nose 
was whacked by the arm of a Texas A&M defender in midair during UF’s 71-68 loss. The hit sent Leon sprawling to the court, clutching his bruised face.
Moments later, the junior was sent to the free throw line for 
two shots. His head was ringing.
He missed both.
"I still should’ve knocked them down," he said.Honesty also came from redshirt senior Dorian Finney-Smith, 
who knocked the ball out of the Aggies’ Danuel House’s hands 
at half court with seven seconds left in the second half. Down by three points, UF’s Chris Chiozza caught it, dribbled to the 
three-point line and launched the final shot of the game: a miss.
"We didn’t lose the game because of that shot," Finney-Smith 
said after the loss to No. 15 TAMU. "We lost the game because of (16) turnovers."
And finally, it came from Mike White, who tried to simplify 
the Gators’ offensive game plan in an attempt to raise his team’s 
play, to bring them out of the Southeastern Conference’s statisti-
cal gutter, if only for one road game.
"(We need) zero live-ball turnovers. That’s it. That’s it," 
White said of UF’s focus heading into the game against TAMU. 
"With us, with some of the offensive deficiencies we’ve had, we thought that might help a little bit."
Florida committed 16 turnovers in the loss, its highest total 
since committing 19 in the season opener against Navy on Nov. 13. The turnovers led to 21 points for the Aggies.Missed free throws, turnovers to blame for loss to Texas A&MSEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 19
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 19
SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 19“(W e need) zero live-ball turnovers. That’s it. That’s it. 
With us, with some of the offensive deficiencies we’ve 
had, we thought that might help a little bit.”
Mike White
UF men's basketball coachTHE FSU, USF, UF AND 
MIAMI WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
TEAMS ARE ALL RANKED. 
The Associated Press
It is a milestone week for women’s col-
lege basketball in the state of Florida.
For the first time, four teams are ranked 
in the Top 25. Florida State leads the way 
at 16th, South Florida (No. 19) moved up three spots this week, followed by Florida (No. 20) and Miami (No. 21). The Hurri-
canes returned to the Top 25 after a week’s 
absence but this is the first time the Gators have been ranked since March of 2008.
The four coaches say the rankings re-
flect the quality of basketball being played 
in the state, from AAU to high school to 
their programs.
“We’re very proud of each other be-
cause we have worked hard to keep the 
top players in state,” Miami coach Katie 
Meier said. “This also shows the tremen-dous depth of four- and five-star recruits in the state.”
The quality of in-state recruits hasn’t al-
ways been that way.
Florida State coach Sue Semrau said 
when she arrived in 1997 it was better to look at out-of-state prospects. Now the pri-mary aim is to recruit in Florida first.
“This is a credit to everyone throughout 
the state because of the growth at a grass roots level,” Semrau said. “The level of de-
velopment at high school, along with the 
Nike and AAU programs has been incred-ible.”
The national recognition of women’s 
hoops in Florida has been steady. At the end of last season — when Florida State, Florida Gulf Coast and South Florida were ranked — marked the first time that three Florida schools cracked the Top 25.
The Seminoles (11-4) and Bulls (10-4) 
have been ranked in the Top 25 all season. Florida State, which has made the Elite Eight twice in the past five seasons, has 
been in the top 10 twice, including a high 
of six in the preseason. South Florida has been as high as 18.
At 14-2, Florida has been among the big-
ger surprises in women’s basketball. The 
Gators already have surpassed last year’s 
win total of 13 and defeated Florida State on Nov. 16. Miami (15-2) has been ranked three of the past four weeks.
“That’s one of the biggest benefits of the 
ranking is that sophomores or juniors or freshmen see those names of schools that are closer to home,” said Florida’s Aman-da Butler said. “Top 10, 20, or 25, players 
don’t have to go out of state to compete at that level. It’s one of the biggest impacts 
rankings have.”
All four coaches have long tenures and 
deep roots in the state.
Semrau is in her 18th season at Flori-
da State while Fernandez, who coached a girls high school program in Miami, is in his 15th year at USF. Meier and Butler both came from Charlotte. Meier is in her 11th season at Miami. Butler succeeded Meier 
before returning to her alma mater in 2007.By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
With the loss of Florida phe-
nom Lauren Haeger to National 
Pro Fastpitch, UF’s softball team 
will need to bolster its pitching 
department. Haeger, the 2015 USA Softball National Collegiate Player of the Year threw a jaw-
dropping 222.1 innings last sea-
son, more than all other pitchers on the team combined. 
Her 1.23 ERA will be hard to 
replace, but the Gators will look 
to bounce back with pitching per-
formances from sophomore righty Aleshia Ocasio, junior southpaw Delanie Gourley and newcomer 
Kelly Barnhill.
1. Aleshia Ocasio, sopho-
more
Career Record: 18-3
Last year:  
Ocasio made a lasting first im-
pression in her 2015 freshman 
campaign. 
After defeating No. 8 Michigan 
with 10 strikeouts in her first start on Feb. 7, the right-handed pitch-er recorded three more 10-strike-out performances. 
Her 18 wins made for the 
third-most ever by a UF fresh-man, and she came through in big games, going 9-2 against ranked opponents. 
The St. Cloud native’s 2.01 
ERA and 155 strikeouts earned her 2015 NFCA Third Team All-American honors, making her 
just the third Florida freshman in 
school history to become an All-American. 
Ocasio became the fourth 
Florida freshman in five years to  strike out 100+ batters, and also etched her place in history by setting the UF record for most strikeouts in a seven-inning game when she tallied 17 against Flor-ida A&M. 
The 2015 All-SEC freshman 
also boasts international experi-ence.
She played with the Puerto 
Rico Softball Women’s National Team in the 2015 Pan Ameri-can games where she accrued a 3-1 record to help her team take home the bronze.  2. Delanie Gourley, juniorCareer Record: 25-3Last year:
 In her second season as a UF 
pitcher, Gourley’s role was re-
duced, but she didn’t lose any ef-fectiveness.
 Gourley put a stamp on her 
sophomore season by going 10-2, four of those wins coming over ranked opponents. 
While she only pitched 79 in-
nings compared to 107.2 the sea-son prior, Gourley was able to shave her ERA to 2.13 from her 2.67 ERA the previous season. 
In her sophomore season she 
also threw 105 strikeouts and saw a spike in her strikeouts per in-ning, going from 1.18 her fresh-man year to an even more unhit-
table mark of 1.33 in 2015. 
From Lakeside, California, 
Gourley became the first left-
handed pitcher to sign with the Gators under coach Tim Walton.
After transitioning to a relief 
role on April 12, Gourley notched five saves for the duration of the season, the biggest coming over 
Michigan in Game 1 of the Wom-
en’s College World Series Cham-
pionship Series on June 1. 
3. Kelly Barnhill, freshman
This season, the Gators will be 
getting a new presence inside the circle in 2015 USA Today Softball 
Player of the Year Kelly Barnhill. 
A right-handed pitcher from 
Marietta, Georgia, Barnhill defi-
nitely has the resume to become one of Florida’s new stars. 
The freshman earned a spot 
on the 2016 USA Softball Na-tional Team, making her the youngest player chosen for the 
national roster since 2009. The 
year before, she helped the 2015 junior national team win gold at the 2015 World Baseball Softball Confederation Junior Women’s 
World Championship. 
Barnhill went 6-0 in the tour-
nament and struck out 51 batters 
in 26 innings pitched, recording a 
microscopic 0.54 ERA along the 
way.18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Aleshia Ocasio pitches during Florida’s win against Illinois State last season at Katie Seashole Pressly 
Stadium.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF women’s basketball coach Amanda Butler calls out a play during the second half of Florida’s 76-70 loss to Mississippi State on Jan. 13 in the O’Connell Center.
Gators softball team looking to fill void left by Haeger 
Four Florida teams make Top 25 for first timeOcasio, Gourley headline pitching staffhandled postseason pressure well, as he went 
2-0 with a 1.64 ERA through 11 innings in the NCAA Tournament.
Expect Faedo to improve even more upon 
his solid freshman year.
4. Dane Dunning, RHP2015: 5-2, 4.03 ERA
It was Dunning who started Florida’s final 
game of 2015, coming up just a game short of the CWS Championship Series.
Though his numbers were fairly pedes-
trian that outing (three earned runs through 4.2 innings), the junior from Fleming Island, Florida, improved on his freshman season.
Dunning started 14 games, tied with Puk 
for second on the team, and lowered his ERA from his 4.50 mark in 2014.
If Faedo starts to falter, O’Sullivan has an 
easy option to go to in Dunning.
5. Kirby Snead, LHP2015: 1-0, 3.15 ERA
Snead was one of O’Sullivan’s go-to guys 
— especially against left-handed hitters — in 
the bullpen in 2015, and he’ll likely play the 
same role this season.
Mainly a match-up pitcher, Snead made 
the second most appearances on the team last year (28), despite logging 34.1 innings.
Newcomer:
1. Brady Singer, RHP
Singer, a 6-foot-5 freshman, was taken in  
the second round of the 2015 MLB Draft by the Toronto Blue Jays. At 56th overall, Sing-er’s pick was valued at more than $1 million, yet he still elected to attend Florida.
That doesn’t happen often — through the 
first 10 rounds of the draft (315 picks), just six players didn’t sign.
Likely UF’s best freshman arm, the Lees-
burg, Florida, native figures to be a top op-tion out of the bullpen, though he should be a starter in years following.But turnovers weren’t the most 
damaging aspect of Florida’s perfor-mance on Tuesday.
The Gators missed eight of their 
12 free throws, a new season-low, even for the SEC’s worst free-throw shooting team at 60.6 percent.
And Florida has tried fixing its 
low percentage from the charity stripe. It conducts free-throw drills during practice, where a miss means the whole team runs laps.
Florida’s players work overtime in 
the gym, shooting free throws when-ever they can.
Still, the in-game results haven’t 
improved.
"I’m at a loss. In terms of free 
throws and our approach, with how we move forward, (how we) shoot it better," White said. "Maybe we just stop shooting them in practice alto-gether."
White wasn’t laughing or joking. 
Simply put, Florida hasn’t played up to his standards on the offensive end this season. UF struggles to get all three phases of its team working at the same time: offense, defense and free-throw shooting.
And when they do, the Gators 
are usually at home, like in its exhi-
bition win against Division II Palm 
Beach Atlantic. The win over PBAU was one of only three UF victories in which it shot at least 40 percent from the field, 35 percent from three-point range and held its opponent below 40-percent shooting.
But even then, the Gators shot 
just 37 percent from the foul line 
against the Sailfish.
"In my guys’ defense, it's not for 
a lack of effort or reps," White said. 
"To come on the road and beat a good team in the SEC, you’ve got to shoot a higher percentage than that."THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
Florida missed eight of its 12 
free throws against TAMU
Freshman was taken in round 2 of  2015 MLB draft UF and UGA 
have played each other 66 timesAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Gators forward Dorian Finney-Smith shoots the ball during Florida's 68-62 win over LSU on Saturday, 
Jan. 9 in the O'Connell Center. 
in those games could be cause for concern 
against a Florida team averaging over 20 points more than that in SEC games. 
While the two teams may not have similar 
offensive outputs, they both feature one all-
around player.
For the Gators, that do-everything player is 
freshman guard Eleanna Christinaki.
The native of Athens, Greece, leads the 
team in assists with 63, is second among 
guards in rebounds with 57 and her 9.9 points per game is good for fourth-best on the team.
Considering the team’s leading scorer is av-
eraging 10.4, she could be first in that category 
with one big game. 
On the other bench, Georgia senior Shaco-
bia Barbee leads the Bulldogs in assists with 
76, rebounding with 9.3 per game, steals with 40 and is second in scoring, averaging 12.6 per game. 
Another similarity between the two teams 
is a veteran presence, with four of UGA’s usual starters being seniors and three of Florida’s 
projected starters being upperclassmen. 
“They’re a veteran team — they have a lot 
of juniors and seniors that know what it’s like 
to compete in this league,” Butler said of Geor-gia.
This will be the first of the annual two-
game series for the 2015-16 season, with the next one taking place in Athens, Georgia on Feb. 21.
The rivalry between the schools is well doc-
umented, and in women’s basketball, the two have met on the hardwood 66 times going into tonight’s game. That’s the second-most meet-ings against one school all-time for the Gators. 
And the importance of the rivalry is not lost 
on Butler. 
“They understand this rivalry and just how 
intense it is every year,” Butler said. “No mat-
ter if we’re there or they’re here or what the 
win-loss record look like, they’re a very good team.”HOOPS,  from pg 17
BASEBALL,  from pg  17
W-HOOPS,  from pg 17
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
A.J. Puk pitches during Florida's 7-2 loss to Miami on Feb. 21 at McKethan Stadium. 20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
NEW SEASON, HIGH EXPECTATIONS
Florida’s Mollie Stevens drives toward the net during Florida’s win against San Diego State last season. The No. 7 lacrosse team opens 
the season on Saturday, Feb. 6, against Loyola. 
RANKED UF SPORTS
BASEBALL
No. 1 (preseason) - Perfect Game
MEN’S GOLF
No. 12 - Golfweek
WOMEN’S GOLF
No. 13 - Golfweek 
(last updated Nov. 7, 2015)
MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING
No. 4 - College Swimming
WOMEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING
No. 11 - College Swimming
GYMNASTICS
No. 3 - RoadToNationals.com
MEN’S TRACK & FIELD
No. 1 - USTFCCCA
WOMEN’S TRACK & FIELD
No. 6 - USTFCCCAFOOTBALL
No. 25 (postseason) - AP
LACROSSE
No. 7 - Inside Lacrosse