We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 11 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016
Florida wins season opener 
Luke Del Rio and the Gators started the season 
1-0. Check out our photo story from the game,pg 14. 
Police investigating two sexual assaults
Both occurred this past weekend, pg. 5
UF to honor student who died Sunday
The 30-year-old student died in his sleep , pg. 4A labor of love
A nursing home worker’s passion for her job, pg. 3
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
With the ﬁ  rst-down marker less than a 
yard away, coach Jim McElwain turned to 
Mark Thompson — a 6-foot-2, 237-pound transfer running back. 
McElwain was betting on the redshirt ju-
nior to bulldoze his way through the Minute-men’s defense. 
Instead, Thompson took the handoff, 
hit the left side and was smacked down by UMass linebacker Da’Sean Downey. 
And while the No. 25 Gators went on to 
win 24-7, Thompson’s failure to score was emblematic of an offense that struggled to generate big plays all night.
“We didn’t have any,” McElwain said.“We’ve gotta get ‘em… That’s something 
we’ve got to get a little bit better at, obvi-ously.”
Thompson and the rest of the running 
backs were especially underwhelming, rush-ing for 96 yards on 23 attempts. The wide receivers also struggled, though 
there were some bright spots. 
Quarterback Luke Del Rio’s ﬁ  rst career 
touchdown pass sailed to a wide-open Anto-nio Callaway from 12-yards out. 
His second fell in the hands of  Brandon 
Powell, who broke a tackle in the backﬁ  eld on a screen pass to score.
But with 256 total yards through the air 
(last season Florida combined for 381 in its opener), McElwain said his team needs to im-prove. “Explosive plays, not anywhere near 
enough,” McElwain said. 
One area McElwain praised, though, was 
special teams. 
The highly anticipated arrival of YouTube 
kicking sensation Eddy Pineiro lived up to his hype, as the transfer went 3-for-3 on ﬁ  eld goals and 2-for-2 on extra points.
For a fan base starved for competent kick-
ing after UF missed 10 of its 17 ﬁ  eld goal tries a year ago, Pineiro splitting the uprights left AN UNDERWHELMING OPENERFlorida 24
  Massachusetts 7
SEE SPORTS,  PAGE 14
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
From left: UF kicker Eddy Pineiro smiles for a selﬁ  e with Lydia Bjornson, 17, and McKayla Parrott, 17. For coverage of the ﬁ  rst UF home game, including Steve Spurrier’s book signing and new gameday rules, see pages 8 and 9. 
THE ORDINANCE WAS 
PASSED DURING A 
COMMISSION MEETING 
THURSDAY.
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
Just before the start of Gator foot-
ball season, Gainesville made it legal for fans to drink on their Uber rides 
to the game.
During a City Commission meet-
ing Thursday, commissioners unani-
mously passed an ordinance allow-ing passengers of vehicles for hire to bring alcohol on rides.
At the meeting, City Attorney Ni-
cole Shalley said the law change is a corrective measure. 
Last year, the city vehicles-for-hire ordinance was updated to regu-
late Uber and Lyft, but the regulation 
to allow open containers was still re-served for taxis and limousines. 
“The driver still cannot have alco-
hol, obviously,” Shalley said.
State regulations set the standard 
for these kinds of laws, said Mayor Lauren Poe. Municipalities have the power to adjust these laws, as long 
as it doesn’t conﬂ  ict with the state law.
Jennifer Reardon, a 40-year-old 
Uber driver, sees the law as much 
needed protection. She said passen-gers have brought drinks into her car before and sometimes leave them, but now it’s one less thing she has to worry about.
“I’m more worried about when 
someone who’s intoxicated gets in 
and spills a drink all over my car,” she said. 
Alana Pupello, 23, said there’s 
no way of knowing if the passengers 
are underage or offering the driver drinks.
“Some people are so antsy to get 
drunk that they just want to chug in the Uber,” the UF English senior said. “I’m not going to die for like a 10 minute Uber drive if I don’t 
drink.” Gainesville approves beer for Uber, Lyft passengersBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police is investi-
gating a sexual assault that hap-
pened early Saturday morning.
At about 2 a.m. Saturday, a 
UF student was walking home from Midtown when a man in a black car called her by name and offered her a ride, accord-ing to a University Police Time-ly Warning emailed to students Saturday.
The man then drove the stu-
dent north of the Stephen C. O’Connell Center, in the 200 block of Northwest 22nd Street, where the assault occurred, ac-cording to the email.
UPD Sgt. Walt Hamby said 
the department sent out the alert to inform students the as-sault had occurred and to take precautions. 
He said the assault should 
serve as a reminder to students about not walking alone at 
night.
Hamby said students can in-
stall the safety app TapShield for campus safety resources and 
emergency information.
“We certainly want to make 
them aware that that’s hap-
pened,” he said. “We don’t 
want anything else like that to 
happen again.”
Anyone with information 
about the assault is encouraged 
to call GPD or text “GPDFL” and 
the tip to 274637. 
Those who want to stay 
anonymous can call Crime Stop-
pers at 352-372-7867.  
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org UF student sexually  
assaulted near campusSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  90° LOW  66°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Free English Classes and 
Citizenship Classes
The Latina Women’s League is offering free English classes Tuesdays until Nov. 8 from 6 p.m. 
to 7:30 p.m. at the Millhopper 
Branch public library. Anyone looking to improve his or her con-versational English can attend. The league is also offering free citizenship classes every Thursday starting this week until Oct. 20, from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m., at the li-brary, during which attendees can 
learn about the process of citizen-
ship. For more information, visit latinawomensleague.org.
‘Still I Rise: A Celebration of 
Tupac’s Legacy’Sept. 13 marks the 20th anniver-sary of Tupac Shakur’s death. To commemorate his life, African 
American Studies at UF in con-
junction with Reitz Union Board Entertainment are sponsoring a two-day symposium in his honor, called “Still I Rise: A Celebration of Tupac’s Legacy.” The symposium will begin Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom and will entail an in-depth analysis of 
Shakur, followed by a forum panel 
discussion. There will then be a showing of the movie “Juice,” in which Shakur was featured, at the Reitz Union Auditorium at 7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m.
Belly Dancing for All Ages
The Cairo Grille, located at 2410 
NW 43rd St., invites you to learn 
the ancient art of belly danc-ing in a free master class by the Al Amoura Dancers. It will be Saturday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Call 352-727-7071 for more infor-mation.
Campus Juice
Trying to get those 10 servings of fruits and vegetables a day? Campus Juice, UF’s own healthy lifestyle club, is hosting a juic-ing workshop. Come out to learn about how to juice, recipes and the health benefits of juicing. There will be refreshing juice for everyone and a great opportunity 
to learn about the health of the self 
and community. Campus Juice T-shirts will be available for sale. Join Campus Juice for a healthy potluck Sept. 13 in Little Hall, Room 0205 at 7:30 p.m. 
Author to Discuss the War on Drugs in Mexico
A film, literature and journal-ism scholar from Washington University is giving a lecture Sept. 15 at UF. The talk will be at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. In this lecture, Ignacio Sánchez Prado will show how the erosion of citizenship and the lack of economic opportunity have fueled drug-related violence in Mexico. This event is the first in an eight-part speaker series called 
“Death: Confronting the Great 
Divide.” This series invites schol-ars and filmmakers to explore cul-tural and historical confrontations with death. This event is free and open to the public, and it includes time afterward for questions and discussion. For more information, please visit humanities.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  David Hoffman, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, David Hoffman, Amanda     
  Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Michael Smith  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 11
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Emma Green 
Alligator Contributing Writer
As elderly residents inch along 
the hallways of their nursing 
home, 39-year-old Charell Lane 
slows down to ask if they need a 
hand.
From his wheelchair, one man 
looks up and mumbles incoher-
ently up at Lane.
She takes the time to piece to-
gether the broken string of words 
and responds gently to the man who wanted her to get food from 
the Labor Day barbecue held out-
side.
Lane, a certiﬁ  ed nursing as-
sistant at Parklands Care Center, 
didn’t mind working on Labor 
Day, a day many workers have off. 
In fact, she enjoyed it.For the past two years, Lane 
has become a ﬁ  xture in the lives of 
many residents, learning to make 
their coffee just the way they like it, memorizing how many sugars to put in and whether they take 
cream. 
“It’s my passion,” she said. “I 
can’t stay away.”
•   •   •
Lane’s colleagues at Parklands 
see the passion in her work.
Elliot J. Williams, the nursing 
home’s administrator, said Lane 
always makes sure everything is done and that the residents and their loved ones are taken care of 
before she leaves.
Lane’s daily routine consists of 
feeding, showering and keeping 
track of the health of the nursing home’s residents.
“She truly has the passion and 
the love for what she does,” Wil-liams said. “She does go above 
and beyond.”
Stephanie Kelly, the direc-
tor of admissions at the nursing 
home, described Lane as having a “beautiful heart.” She said she 
can tell which residents have been 
assigned to Lane by the way they 
smile afterward.
“She is always willing to lend a 
hand,” Kelly said.
Lane said she began volunteer-
ing at a nursing home when she 
was younger and discovered she loved listening to people as she sat at their bedsides.  
They would tell stories about 
their lives, and she would listen intently.
But Lane’s strong bond with 
residents makes it harder for her to leave. About four or ﬁ  ve months ago, a resident she cared for named Richard died of cancer.
“I went with him to his last 
chemo treatment; it was on a Wednesday,” she said. “I’ll never forget it was a Wednesday.”
The next day, Richard didn’t 
want to get out of bed for treat-ment. He stayed in bed for the next two days.
“The other day, he died — and 
I wasn’t even here,” she said, her eyes welling up with tears.
Lane said her profession often 
takes a toll on her, but her willing-
ness to help people has yet to fade.
“I think I was born to do this,” 
she said. Labor of love: a nursing-
home worker’s passion
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Charell Lane, a certiﬁ  ed nursing assistant, prepares lunch for residents of Parklands Care Center on 
Labor Day. She said she didn’t mind working on Monday, although many workers had the day off.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Typing on a care tracker, Charell Lane, 39, monitors the vitals and eating habits of Parklands Care Center’s nursing home residents on Monday.She worked on Labor Day
“She truly has the passion and 
the love for what she does.”
Elliot J. Williams
Parklands Care Center 
administratorBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
UF is planning a memorial for a student who died 
over the weekend.
Josh Hildebrandt, a 30-year-old UF undergraduate 
student, died Sunday in his sleep from an arrhythmia, or 
an abnormal heart rhythm, said Carl Barfield, his former 
mentor at Santa Fe College.
Hildebrandt, an anthropology major and entomology 
and nematology minor, was born with a heart defect and 
had a heart transplant because of the condition. 
He was a research assistant at UF’s Lucky Lab, said 
Andrea Lucky, a UF assistant research scientist who runs the entomology lab. Hildebrandt studied at Santa Fe be-fore transferring to UF.
Before his death, he had been working on his senior 
thesis, exploring the interaction between an invasive spe-cies of snail with native ant populations, Lucky said. 
He was the first in his family to attend college and 
wanted to apply to graduate school at UF.
Though Hildebrandt had been in and out of the hos-
pital before he died, he would often text Lucky jokes so she wouldn’t worry.
“Even though there were times when he felt really 
bad, he would always kind of brush it off when he was 
around other people,” Lucky said.
Jen Day Shaw, the UF Dean of Students, wrote in an 
email that UF will likely award Hildebrandt a posthu-
mous degree. The memorial service will be held Thurs-day or Friday in Steinmetz Hall, she said.
“He was an extraordinarily impressive young man,” Barfield said. “He could have done anything he wanted to.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016
UF to honor student who died Sunday
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Josh Hildebrandt, 30, a UF anthropology major and 
entomology and nematology minor, died on Sunday in his sleep from an arrhythmia, or an abnormal heart rhythm. He was working on his senior thesis and wanted to pursue his master’s degree at UF.
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Moises Rivero and Rafael Carrasquilla spent 
Monday afternoon shooting arrows at each oth-
er and ducking behind yellow and blue barriers. 
Carrasquilla, 26, said movies have inspired 
him to try archery. 
“Every kid sees Robin Hood and wants to 
shoot arrows at people,” the UF biology junior said. “I’m pumped to get to do that today.”
They joined a group of about 20 people in 
Arrow Wars, an event put on by Sportans En-tertainment LLC, a startup company created by a UF student and alumna. Monday’s free event on Main Street near Depot Park introduced Gainesville to the idea of Arrow Wars, said 
Kevin Bautista, who co-founded the company. 
“We want to entertain people,” the 23-year-
old UF finance senior said. “It’s something new; 
it’s different.”
In the heat of the afternoon, soft-tipped ar-
rows hit their human targets, transforming a large concrete lot into an arena.
Rivero said the event reminded him of 
shooting pumpkins in his backyard when he 
was younger.“I had those plastic bows with the suction-
cup arrows,” the 26-year-old UF mechanical en-
gineering graduate student said.
Bautista and his girlfriend, Ana Martinez, 
started the company in June after they entered the UF Big Idea Gator Business Plan Competi-tion. They created a 40-page business plan and 
did extensive research on their Arrow War idea, 
Bautista said. Although they didn’t win, they decided to pursue their business model anyway. 
“Within the span of a month, we had to get 
everything,” he said. “We sourced equipment from China, we got our business license, our insurance — everything.”
Bautista and Martinez financed the $9,000 
endeavor themselves, taking out a loan to cover 
the costs of the equipment, rental spaces and 
transportation for events. Novice archers start-ed the event with target practice. Frank Pistella was one of them. 
The 20-year-old had never shot an arrow be-
fore, but he heard about the event from a friend.
“It seemed like fun,” Pistella said. “Also, I 
ran out of homework this weekend. I’ll prob-ably end up tripping and shooting the arrow at 
myself, but I’m excited anyway.”Arrow Wars brings archery to GNV
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
Claire Seiler, an 18-year-old UF computer engineering freshman, draws her bow 
behind an inflated barrier during Arrow Wars on Monday afternoon. The free event was put on by Sportans Entertainment LLC, a company dedicated to hosting interactive sporting events.
IT’S THE SECOND 
LOCATION IN FLORIDA.
By Paulina Magana
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new Mexican restaurant in 
Gainesville served burritos to its 
first 20 customers at about 1:30 
p.m. Monday. 
Felipe’s Mexican Taqueria, 
a Mexican food chain, held the 
grand opening of its sixth loca-
tion at 1209 W. University Ave. It’s the second location in Flor-ida. 
Felipe’s likes opening restau-
rants in college towns, said Jus-tin Crooks, the vice president of operations, who spent the day making burritos and filling or-
ders. 
“Gainesville is a neat col-
lege town that has great, diverse 
people that are smart and savvy — that know value and qual-
ity,” Crooks said.
The menu includes burritos, tacos and taco bowls, as well as 
frozen and top-shelf margaritas. Entree prices range from about $4 to about $8. 
Customers can add toppings 
and sauces to their meals. 
The new location will be 
open Sunday to Thursday from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., and Friday and Saturday from 11 a.m. to midnight.
Crooks said the recipes origi-
nate from Oaxaca, Mexico, in 
the southern part of the country, 
where the founders, the Herrera family, are from.
Leticia Sanchez, a 40-year-
old Miami native, said she was 
visiting Gainesville when she 
tried the queso con carne paired with two top-shelf margaritas. 
She said it was phenomenal.
“The ambiance is laid-back 
and makes you feel at home,” 
Sanchez said. 
“Customer service is super 
friendly,” she said. “And the 
margaritas are strong.”Felipe’s Taqueria offers 
Mexican cuisine to GNV
THE FAILED BILL SOUGHT TO 
CHANGE UF SG ELECTION CODES 
TO ALLOW REMOTE ONLINE 
VOTING.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
A bill asking to change Student Govern-
ment election codes failed to reach the Student 
Senate floor Sunday afternoon.  
The Judiciary Standing Committee failed a 
bill proposed by the Online Voting Implemen-
tation Ad Hoc Committee, which sought to al-low remote online voting by revising the SG 700 election codes. The Judiciary Committee 
ruled the revisions unconstitutional because they do not ensure voters’ privacy, Ben Wein-er, the chairman of the committee, said.
Committee members cited a 2006 SG Su-
preme Court opinion that ruled online voting unconstitutional. 
The proposed revisions could have allowed 
voter coercion without the protection of voting 
booths, Weiner said. 
“In a perfect world, if it was constitutional 
with the state, and it was constitutional feder-
ally, yes, it could go through a senate,” Weiner said. 
Lindsay Abbott (Liberal Arts, Impact) said she agreed with the 2006 opinion. 
She said the approval of students does not 
necessarily warrant a change in campus leg-islation.
Students will vote in the Spring for an 
amendment allowing remote online voting. 
The Judiciary Committee initially failed the 
revisions Aug. 28 because election codes can’t be changed within four weeks of elections, and the original revisions were for Fall. 
Michael Russel, who co-authored the bill, 
wrote in an email that he thought the bill would pass if the authors of the bill addressed the Spring election.
“Because this is the only thing they took is-
sue with, we assumed that the Judiciary Com-mittee would be passing these codes on to the 
Replacement and Agenda Committee,” he said. 
Russel said he will resubmit the revisions 
with a letter defending them. 
“Unfortunately, the Judiciary Committee al-
lowed political preference to intervene before 
their constitutional duty,” he said.
On Tuesday at 5 p.m., the court will discuss 
student petitions addressing remote online vot-ing at the Levin College of Law, Room 285C.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org Judiciary Committee fails bill regarding online votingCAMPUS UF to hon-
or student who died SaturdayTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the pouring rain Sunday after -
noon, labor union members and sup -
porters protested for increased wages 
and better working conditions.
As a part of the inaugural Labor 
Day Parade, about 40 cars and two horse-filled trailers traveled down 
West University Avenue to Bo Did
-
dley Community Plaza.
The parade, sponsored by the 
North Central Florida chapter of the 
American Postal Workers Union, spanned seven blocks before ending 
at the fifth annual Labor Daze Fest, a 
music festival organized by workers’ rights activists in Alachua County.
Adrian Hayes-Santos, the 
Gainesville city commissioner for Dis
-
trict 4, participated in the parade. He said it was vital for workers to have the right to unionize.“I’m here today supporting labor 
and working families who are the backbone of our community,” he said.
Last month, Hayes-Santos pushed 
to raise the city’s living wage to $12.25 per hour for government employees, a move many parade-goers lauded as a step in the right direction.
James Ingle, a 39-year-old 
Gainesville resident who helped orga
-
nize the music festival, said one of the main causes the event promoted was for the 10 biggest employers in the county, including UF, to pay workers $15 per hour.
Muriel Newman, 51, a member of 
the American Federation of Govern
-
ment Employees, led the cars down West University Avenue. She said the rain may have discouraged some residents from participating, but it couldn’t stop her.
“We’re still here in solidarity — 
forever,” she said. “It’s what we do.”Union members march 
for increased wages  
IT HAPPENED DURING HURRICANE 
HERMINE. 
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A local man was arrested Friday after Gainesville 
Police said he attempted to sexually assault a girl 
during Hurricane Hermine.
At about 5 a.m., Johnathan 
Westra, 30, assaulted the minor following a night out with friends at a local bar, according to a GPD 
report. 
Prior to the assault, the girl had 
resisted Westra’s sexual advances and stepped away from the group. Westra then followed her to a se-
cluded area outside before punching her and trying to pull her pants down, according to the report.
The incident occurred in the 3500 block of South-
west Second Avenue, according to the report.As the girl screamed for help and tried to fight 
Westra off, Westra told her no one would hear her during the storm, according to the report.
A witness, who noticed the girl missing from the 
group, then found Westra beating the girl and called 
police. 
Among other injuries, the girl suffered bruises 
and swelling to her face and neck, according to the report.
Westra told police he didn’t remember the inci-
dent because he blacked out, according to the re-
port.
“But if witnesses say that I did it, then I guess 
I did it,” he said, according to the report. Later he said he was sorry.
Police charged Westra with attempted sexual 
battery on a person 12 years or older and false im-
prisonment. Authorities took him to the Alachua 
County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $500,000 bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgMan arrested for attempted assaultCarly Breitbart / Alligator
Jill Dumas, a 39-year-old Gainesville resident, sells raffle tickets to festival attendees during the Labor 
Daze Fest on Sunday. The grand prize winner received up to $500 off a power bill paid for by Gainesville Regional Utilities.
Westra
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
 
Bill Cosby’s defense team will 
have a new look when the actor 
returns to court for a hearing on 
Tuesday in his sexual assault case.
Cosby has streamlined his legal 
team as the felony case heads to 
trial and dropped his media han-
dler, Washington lawyer Monique Pressley.
A judge in suburban Philadel-
phia could set a trial date.
The defense also will push on 
Tuesday to keep key evidence out of the case. They hope to suppress several days of testimony Cosby 
gave in the accuser’s civil lawsuit 
a decade ago. Cosby acknowl-edged giving Andrea Constand several pills before what he calls a consensual sexual encounter. She 
later said she was in and out of consciousness.
“I don’t hear her say anything. 
And I don’t feel her say anything. 
And so I continue and I go into the area that is somewhere between 
permission and rejection. I am not 
stopped,” Cosby testified in the 2005 lawsuit.
Veteran Philadelphia defense 
lawyer Brian McMonagle is ex-pected to lead the courtroom fight as the case moves forward.
The defense also hopes to sup-
press a secretly recorded 2005 
phone call Cosby had with Gianna 
Constand, when he described his sexual encounter with her daugh-ter.
District Attorney Kevin Steele 
will fight to use both the phone call and his deposition at trial.
Cosby has so far lost his efforts 
to have the charges thrown out.Bill Cosby returns to courtThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnStay hungry
Hello, dear readers. So, this is David, coming out of the 
closet to speak to you directly.
For the past six months or so, I’ve been your opin-
ions editor, but this here is my last editorial for a while. I’ll be exploring some other shenanigans. Actually, the 
National Security Agency got ahold of my writing and is threaten-ing to hurt my family if I don’t stop. Send help. Everything you know is a lie. Just kidding… or maybe that’s what they want you to think.
Anyway, politics. That’s a thing. With me stepping down, I 
expect you frequent readers (hi, Mom and Dad) will want some age-old wisdom, the sacred pearls of knowledge passed down to opinions editors since the dawn of time. Or not.
I wouldn’t call it wisdom. The only real difference between 
you and me is that you’re allowed to walk away from news; I get to write about it every day. So, what I’m about to say is honestly common sense. You just tend to see the same nonsense over and 
over again when you’re tied to the news cycle.
Do any of you like the Red Hot Chili Peppers? I do. (I know 
that seemed random, but just wait. It’ll make sense.) Some of 
you may know the band got its new guitarist, Josh Klinghoffer, around 2009 and later came out with the album “I’m With You.” 
Everyone and their mothers will tell you how much better the 
group’s former guitarist, John Frusciante, was, but keep in mind 
the only thing haters love more than hating is hopping on band-wagons.
I could go on forever, but what matters for us right now is this: 
Some of the greatest music from the “I’m With You” era wasn’t 
even showcased on the album. Instead, many of the real gems 
were buried in the later-released B-side album, “I’m Beside You.” Get it? B-side. Beside.
So, take this as a lesson, dear readers. Don’t settle for what’s 
presented to you and make judgments about everything and as-sume you know it all (“I’m With You”). Humble yourself and dig deeper (“I’m Beside You”). There’s always way more going on behind the scenes than what you can account for. 
If all you did was watch the world through your toilet paper 
roll of choice, be it Fox News Channel, CNN, MSNBC, etc., you’d think the 2016 election and Donald Trump’s empty podium right before a “major” speech were the only things that ever mattered this year.
The same way whoever the hell managed and produced “I’m 
With You” obscured the reality of Josh Klinghoffer in the Chili Peppers, the current big media outlets have obscured and even falsely presented the political reality.
And it’s not like bias is inherently evil. This entire piece is full 
of bias. The problem is the bias that is presented as truth to mask an agenda.
Allow me to be completely transparent: I think a lot of big me-
dia do people a disservice by withholding important stories and prioritizing sensationalism. Therefore, I want people to hunger for more accurate, transparent and in-depth news. Boom. That’s my agenda. Sue me. (Don’t actually do that; I have no money.)
Don’t get me wrong: I’m not raging and saying these news 
outlets are illegitimate. I will say, however, they willfully misin-form and misguide the public. And the ones who lose in the end are you and me: We’re left with incomplete information.
So, what should you do? Never settle for what’s given to you. 
Read as many sources as you can, seek out independent media 
like The Intercept, Democracy Now! and The Young Turks.
Stay hungry. Never be complacent with what you know.
I leave you with this Jon Stewart quote: “The best defense 
against bullshit is vigilance. So if you smell something, say 
something.”
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORLet’s jump right into things, shall we? I’m 
just kidding. I never do that — jump into things, 
that is. I always ramble for the ﬁ  rst few hundred words so I can release all my pent-up charm and wit. I just watched “Back to the Future” this weekend for the ﬁ  rst time in a while. 
Let me tell you, it was a romp. I had so much 
fun. Two things, though: I usually hate pop-cul-ture references fundamentally, but about half of the movie’s references land really well. It’s cool. Also, rape is a major plot point — it’s part of Mar-ty’s plan to make George a hero in the eyes of Lorraine. And then Biff actually tries to rape Lorraine. It’s a whole thing. You don’t really feel the weight of it beneath the 1950s cult of domesticity, but the rape’s there. It’s a whole thing.
I also watched “The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie” 
this weekend. I watched a lot of movies this weekend. I forgot how fun a movie it was, and I also forgot about how SpongeBob gets an ice-cream hangover and rides David Hasselhoff’s back.
So, last week I talked about how “SpongeBob 
SquarePants” has declined in quality, and I focused on the visual design of its characters and the animation. This week, I said I’d talk about the sound design. So, I’ll talk about the sound design. An elephant’s word is 100 percent.
If you’ve seen the show, I’d wager you can hum more 
than a few of the title-card melodies. Those melodies in-cluded sea shanties, Hawaiian music and orchestral tracks. While the orchestral tracks were saved for more intense moments, the Hawaiian music and the sea shanties usually underscored the setting of the scene. If a scene took place in the Krusty Krab, you could guarantee a sea shanty. Out in Jellyﬁ  sh Fields, expect some Hawaiian tunes. Music usu-ally set the scene and then took a backseat to the antics; if anything, the lower-tempo music kept the scene rooted and focused. Jokes could be sprinkled in without tamper-ing with the momentum of the scene because many of the scenes ran relatively slowly anyway.
Compare this to a post-“The SpongeBob 
SquarePants Movie” episode, in which the mu-sic tries to underscore the comedy instead of the scene. The new season’s soundtrack tends to ditch the grimy pirate songs and the relax-ing Hawaiian tunes for a whole bunch of slide guitar. Like, endless amounts of slide guitar. Did someone say “More slide guitar?” I didn’t. Many of the newer episodes get hectic and are incred-ibly high-energy, so the music’s intensity grows 
proportionally to the scene’s action; the visuals and the au-dio are one and the same. Comedy is all about irony, and earlier seasons get bigger laughs because they created some kind of dissonance between how the scene sounds and how the scene looks.
All too often, audio cues are shoehorned into newer epi-
sodes; they let the audience know when a joke has been told. If the scene ends on a joke, you might hear the loud “barrum” of a drum or a ﬂ  urry of popping bubbles as the scene transitions. Just like every action has some exagger-ation in its animation, every action is accompanied by a sound effect. The word of the day is subtlety; these audio cues serve basically as a laugh track. Laugh tracks under-mine the intelligence of the audience because their pres-ence assumes the audience wouldn’t otherwise laugh. Brief tangent here: The only TV show I permit to have a laugh track is “Seinfeld” because much of the show’s comedy is rooted in stand-up, which needs a larger audience. But last time I checked, “SpongeBob” isn’t “Seinfeld.” “Sponge-Bob” doesn’t need audio cues.
Also, there are two suicide jokes in one season-eight epi-
sode. Let’s talk about that next week.
Michael Smith might be a UF mechanical engineering 
junior. He should really talk to an adviser sometime. His columns also have a ﬂ  uorescent glow in the dark or un-derwater.
A methodical look at the nautical: SpongeBob
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
To this day, I’m still amazed by the 
colorful range of responses that an approaching hurricane will bring 
forth from Floridians. Non-native 
residents frantically plan for the 
looming apocalypse by stocking up on non-perishables, ﬂ  ashlights and bottled water. 
Concerned parents beg their college kids to 
stay indoors, avoid power lines and charge their cellphones.
The more responsible among us raise 
an invocation to President Fuchs for giv-
ing them an opportunity to binge season 
two of "Narcos" and shirk all social obli-gations. Then there are those who laugh in the face of natural selection and Uber 
surges by heading out to Gainesville’s ﬁ  n-
est bars for a night of soggy fun: We all know Midtown is hellish enough without the added natural disaster.
But there’s a reason hurricane parties 
have evolved in the southeast over the past few decades. 
It’s a lot less fun to stay at home con-
templating your own mortality and the om-nipotence of Mother Nature than, say, drinking cheap gin and ton-ics and laughing at any storm un-
der a Category 3.
So when Midtown lost pow-
er Thursday night, chants of           
“F--- Hermine” echoing through 
its hallowed grounds ensued as 
everyone was pushed out the doors and into the pouring rain. 
Our blissful ignorance was cut 
short.
Like many fellow Floridians, hurricanes 
evoke a combination of terrifying and laughable memories. I think of moving to South Florida in fourth grade and being im-
mediately greeted by Hurricanes Charley, 
Ivan, Frances and Jeanne in the ﬁ  rst two months. I think of reading “Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix” by an elec-tric lantern over the course of six days as 
we waited for the power to go back on. 
I think of my mother checking our new 
backyard after the storm, only to ﬁ  nd ev-
ery one of our beautiful, old trees ripped out of the ground. I think of my parents laughing off Hurricane Katrina right before it changed 
course and headed straight for 
Louisiana.
Everyone who grew up in 
Florida has a special mélange of 
storm-afﬁ  liated memories. For 
my fellow students, however, many of these memories took place when we were old enough to understand what was happen-
ing but also young enough for the storms to be tinged with that distinct variety of childlike terror. 
As Hermine loomed closer, I realized  
that if it ended up posing an actual threat, I would have no clue what to do. What if we lost power? Or our water shut off? Or we had no cell service?
All of these anxieties were smoothed 
over when I called my mom, whose ﬁ  rst and only tidbit of advice was, “You should try to meet a cute boy at a hurricane party.”
So when I found myself walking home from a prematurely dark Midtown, my cheap umbrella braced against 50-mph winds and heavy rain, I began to deeply 
question my decision-making skills — 
which should come as no surprise to you by now.
The next morning, as we walked down 
our street to examine the minimal damage, my friends and I laughed about how care-less we had been. 
Video of UF student Michael Cizek bik-
ing around campus while giving a satiri-
cal account of the wreckage was shared 
endlessly on social media. We joked and moved on, a response that was only pos-sible due to Hermine’s tame nature.
Just like the hurricane party itself, 
laughing in the face of potential danger — without getting yourself killed — is an integral step in preparing for any natural disaster. Besides, it’s a hell of a lot more 
fun than stocking up on candles and wor-
rying at home alone.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English se-
nior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.
For collegiate Floridians, hurricane parties are dangerous yet necessaryColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
The human being is 
a fragile specimen, subject to the pry-ing hands of time. Our bodies endure 
much wear and tear: weather, injuries, inop-portune falls. Bruises lay over the ﬁ  ne canvas of our skin, fading one day and returning the next. In enough time, should you allow such bruises to fester, they consume your existence.
America itself is a bruise-ridden 
canvas. Haunted by a tremulous history, America still manages to maintain its image as the land of the free and the just. 
Any opinion, any race and any 
ethnicity is heartily welcomed in America — except when it isn't. 
In recent years, America has be-
come less accepting of new ideas and traditions. When an opinion is voiced — should it not coincide with the shrapnel that whirls through the me-
dia — it is ridiculed. 
Has our skin worn 
so thin? Why? What in 
our history has allowed our sentiments to con-volute the liberties of other citizens?
Any trek across campus or a 
rendezvous in Starbucks can open 
the mind to any sort of political 
ramblings. Donald Trump is a tyrant; Hillary Clinton is a fraud. Any minority indirectly exploited in recent media is met with out-rage. America has become so sen-sitive to recent issues and political correctness that it has forgotten the crux of the American identity.
I ﬁ  nd myself tiptoeing around campus, mindful of my own rheto-ric. While holding your tongue is an excellent show of restraint, it does not do well to hold in opin-ions in an environment where they 
should be freely expressed. This is 
college — a time of emergence and freedom. Why should I hesitate when stating my opinion if I feel it’s signiﬁ  cant?
Wholly, our country needs to 
re-examine the principles that de-ﬁ  ne America. 
If it were not for radical opin-
ions, we would not be the pros-perous entity we are today. Em-bracing all ideas is something to be revered. We should not ﬂ  inch from deﬁ  ning the truth. We should relish in truth and in our right to speak it.
Lauren Smith is a UF journal-
ism junior.
Our fragile America needs repair, truthGuest column Letter to the Editor
The ﬁ  ght to restore online 
voting
Today at 5 p.m. in room 285C 
of the Levin College of Law, Tyler 
Richards and I will argue before Stu-dent Government’s Supreme Court and make the case to restore the 
remote-online-voting amendment 
the Student Body passed last Spring. During Summer, the court recalled this amendment and three others after re-interpreting the vote-tallying language in the Student Body consti-tution, arguing those who voted in the elections for president or Student Senate but abstained from voting on 
the amendment should be counted 
against the 60-percent approval re-quired to pass.
Although we strongly disagree 
with its interpretation and will ar-gue against it, we are also concerned the court justices decided to use this opportunity to change parts of the constitution. The judicial branch can 
interpret the constitution, but only the Student Body can amend the 
constitution, and it must do so in an election.
Although we recognize the cur-
rent court would not have allowed these four amendments to become 
part of the constitution, it is too late 
for it to change history and impose its new interpretation on events of the past.
Legally, the only way the court 
can make the results of past elections comply with its new rules is for SG to ask the Student Body if they want to remove the amendments in question 
during the Spring elections. The con-
stitution simply does not allow for it-self to be changed at any other time. 
To make this retroactive deci-
sion will set a dangerous precedent: empowering unelected ofﬁ  cials to do something only voters should be able to do.
Austin Young is a founding 
member of Global Vote: The UF Coalition for Remote Voting.
Lauren Smith
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016
By Alyssa Weiss
Alligator Contributing Writer
Joshua Brand, 21, has thought 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium was the 
best since he started attending UF football games as a child.
The UF political science senior 
said it’s a Gainesville icon.
“We’re the loudest,” Brand said, “and we have the best fans 
— deﬁ  nitely.”
USA Today recently published 
an article upholding this, naming 
UF’s Steve Spurrier-Florida Field 
the No. 5 stadium in the South-
eastern Conference and calling it “a great place to see a game.”
Laken Litman and Steven Ruiz, 
authors of the article “All 14 SEC football stadiums, ranked from worst to best,” used four factors 
to rank the stadiums in the SEC: capacity, attendance, design and atmosphere.
The article ranked Louisiana 
State University’s Tiger Stadium 
as the best in the SEC, calling it 
“the loudest, craziest place in col-
lege football.” The University of Georgia’s Sanford Stadium ranked 
fourth, above UF’s stadium, and 
the University Tennessee’s Ney-land Stadium ranked sixth.
While Dan Apple, the assistant 
communications director for the 
University Athletic Association, said in an email the rankings 
aren’t a priority, the UAA is al-
ways looking to improve visitors’ experiences. It’s currently work-ing to provide better cell service 
or Wi-Fi.
But The Swamp’s atmosphere, 
with a capacity of 88,548, and its 
86-year history are its best attri-butes, he said.
“Those are two things that 
will never be replicated anywhere else,” Apple said.  UF’s football stadium ranked ﬁ  fth best in SEC, LSU ranked ﬁ  rst
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
As football fans ﬂ  ocked to The 
Swamp on Saturday to watch the Gators kick off their 110th season, they were met with new safety mea-sures.
Along West University Avenue, 
road closures snarled trafﬁ  c near Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. At the entrances to the stadium, police of-ﬁ  cers enforced UF’s new clear-bag policy, which limits the types of bags fans can carry inside.
Both initiatives, aiming to in-
crease gameday safety, will last for the rest of the season. 
Stephanie Petrakos, a 23-year-
old UF science in management mas-ter’s student, said ﬁ  nding parking on game days is hard enough, but the closures made the process more infuriating.
From three hours before the 7:30 
p.m. game  until about 10 p.m., blocks between Northwest 17th Street and Gale Lemerand Drive were closed to vehicle trafﬁ  c.
“It’s just a lot more difﬁ  cult,” she 
said, adding that she had to plan 
ahead to ﬁ  nd a parking spot near 
her friend’s Midtown apartment.
Flávio Carvalho, a 21-year-old 
UF statistics senior, said his family 
couldn’t enter the stadium for vio-
lating the new clear-bag rules.
As his mother and aunt waited 
in line, a police ofﬁ  cer warned them they could not enter the stadium 
with their purses.
“He suggested we could buy a 
bag or that we hide our bag in a 
bush or something,” Carvalho said. “Eventually my parents just bought a clear bag.”
He said he believes the new pol-
icy will create longer lines for the ﬁ  rst few games.
“Since not everyone knows 
about the policy, it might inconve-nience a few people at ﬁ  rst,” he said. “Next time, we’ll just leave our stuff at home.”  Fans face new bag policy, road closures
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Gators fans gather outside Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Saturday afternoon to prepare for the Gator Walk, the team’s traditional walk from the buses to the football stadium.
POLICE EJECT 31, ARREST 5 
DURING FOOTBALL GAME
•   31  fans ejected from the 
game
•   5  UF students arrested
•   18  ejections for alcohol 
possession, intoxication
•   10  ejections for disorderly 
conduct
•   3  ejections for smoking, 
ticket switching, not having 
a ticket
•   3  arrests for narcotics 
violations
•   2  arrests for trespassing
after warning
Source: University PoliceDOWN WHERE THE  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
Fireworks explode above Ben Hill Griffin Stadium as the Florida Gators football team 
takes the field for the first time this season. The Gators defeated the University of Mas-sachusetts Amherst Minutemen 24-7.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Florida Gators football fans cheer on players during the season opener game, UF vs. University of Massachusetts Amherst, on Saturday evening at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
Steve Spurrier signs a copy of his book, “Head Ball Coach, ” on Saturday afternoon at the UF Bookstore in the Reitz Union. Spurrier was recognized on Saturday evening with the renaming of Florida Field to Steve Spurrier-Florida Field. 
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Chris Yanes was 8 years old 
when he met Steve Spurrier for the first time. 
On Saturday, he waited more 
than an hour to meet Spurrier again at the UF Bookstore in the Reitz Union, a copy of Spurrier’s book in hand. The 23-year-old said he was excited to see Spurrier back at UF. 
“It’s the best thing to happen 
since the national championship in ’08,” the UF second-year architec-ture graduate student said. “He’s back home where he belongs.”
Spurrier signed copies of his new 
book, “Head Ball Coach: My Life in Football, Doing it Differently — and winning,” at the bookstore Satur-day, where more than 800 people waited in line to take a picture with 
the former UF football coach and 
leave with his autograph. 
Yanes, who pre-ordered the book, said he was already halfway 
through reading it. 
“It’s one of the best reads I’ve 
seen in awhile,” he said.
A month’s worth of work went 
into putting together the event, said Bob Blake, the district director for 
UF bookstores. Out of the 1,000 
copies the store ordered, 800 were 
sold that day.
“I think that proves what a suc-
cessful event this has been,” he said.
Nathan Santa, 18, said the book 
signing would be his first time meet-ing Spurrier.
The UF finance freshman, who 
bought the $28 book specifically 
for Spurrier to sign, said the signed 
copy would be priceless.
“I would never even think of sell-
ing it,” Santa said. “It’s something I 
want to show my kids one day.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgSteve Spurrier signs books
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
UF is leaving a seat open for 
missing soldiers at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
The Chair of Honor, which hon-
ors prisoners of war and soldiers missing in action, was installed about two weeks ago, along with a plaque, said Randall Martin, a UF alumnus and Marine veteran who approached the university about 
the project last Fall. The Univer-
sity Athletic Association funded the 
project.
After seeing the project at Tropi-
cana Field in St. Petersburg, Flori-
da, for the first time, the 32-year-
old reached out to the UAA about 
bringing it to UF.  
“There is a lot to be understood about what veterans have gone through,” he said. “Hopefully this 
pushes focus on those whose fate 
we don’t know.” 
At Saturday’s game, UF honored 
Cmdr. Randolph Wright Ford, who 
left the university in 1955 to serve 
in Vietnam and died after being 
captured as a POW.
Martin said the chair in Section 
A is a reminder of the stories of sol-diers left unfinished. 
“This is not an abstract con-
cept,” Martin said.
Brett Surles, 26, said he has 
been deployed three times, but the 
chair represents much more than his service.
The UF chemical engineering se-
nior hopes the chair is a reminder to students and Gainesville about the sacrifices being made by sol-diers daily.  
“As long as you understand 
what it is and what it means, then it can be equally important to veteran 
and non-veteran alike,” he said. 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgChair of Honor honors POWs, MIAs at UF football stadiumOLD GATORS PLAYTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-3-16-29-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Mattress SaleNew - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the fall semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
**Admin Assistant-Frat. Management**Office assistant needed for accounting and management company exclusively dealing with Fraternities at UF. Applicant must be in-telligent, able to multi task, a self-starter, and driven. Microsoft Office skills a must. Office experience and sorority knowledge not re-quired, but a plus. Will work with semesterly schedule, open M-F 9-5. Start at $8.50/hr Submit resume and paragraph about your-self to info@fratmanagement.com     9-9-16-10-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 Skatepark feature
5 Tuxedo part
9 Flew the coop
13 Old Voice of
America
overseer: Abbr.
14 Dislike intensely15 Twisted shape
16 Without a care in
the world
18 Olympics
segment
19 Dipped chip20 Vatican City is
one
22 Sweetie, in
dialect
23 Clove crusher
27 She, in São
Paulo
28 “I think,” in chats29 Pointy hat wearer30 CIA relative31 Prefix meaning
“ten”
33 Fictional visitors
from space
35 Surprise victory37 Big band venue
41 U.S.-Canada
defense system
44 Quite a long while
45 Buckwheat
noodle of Japan
49 Tuna at a sushi
bar
50 Okinawa okay53 Fr. holy woman55 Hi-__ image56 Deceptive
measure
59 Courtroom VIPs60 Frozen
conveniencestore offering
61 Funny Cheri63 Solitary64 Log-on needs ...
and, literally, whatthe ends of 16-,23-, 37- and 56-Across can be
67 Gung-ho, as a
fan
68 Cuatro y cuatro69 __ Cong70 Rare bills71 “That was a close
one!”
72 Odds partner
DOWN
1 Like some tuxedo
shirts2 Usually
3 Hand-held
cleaner, briefly
4 Summit-ending
agreement
5 TV channels 2 to
13
6 Place for a ring7 Iron alloy8 Like the bikini in
a 1960 #1 hit
9 Burton of “Roots”
10 Gridiron squads11 Delicate handling12 Extension on an
unformatted
document file
15 Of assistance
17 It’s said that he
said, “I neversaid most of thethings I said”
21 25% of M
24 “Absolutely!”
25 Campus mil.
group
26 Won at musical
chairs
32 Toothpaste-
endorsing gp.
34 “__ what I
mean?”
36 Start of a
sequence endingin “thx”38 Stuck (to)39 Watering aid40 Feed the kitty41 “Stillmatic” rapper42 Eponymous
electrical currentprinciple
43 1970 John
Wayne film
46 Call for pizza,
say
47 Like Dumbledore
and Santa Claus48 Lends a hand
51 Nile snake
52 Summer treat
54 It used to be
plenty
57 Actress Mila58 Arrive at62 “Slithy” thing in
“Jabberwocky”
63 Works at a
museum
65 One called Miss66 Sty mother
By Janice Luttrell©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/06/1609/06/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, September 6, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is 
seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Gleim Design is looking for a strong full time 
Maintenance Tech.Good background in general maintenance. Plumbing, electrical, mechanical and paint-ing skills desirable. Must have a truck and tools. Good driving record. Current drivers license. Ability to lift 50+ lbs.
Stable work. Great benefit package that in-
cludes medical, dental, vision, disability, life, AD&D, profit sharing/retirement, PTO andholiday pay and more.
Please send a resume to hr@gleim.com.    
9-13-16-10-14DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDNOW HIRING UF/SFC Students 
Production / Delivery / Stock Clerks
$10 - $13/hr
Apply at: SmokinNotes.com/Production
9-19-16-12-14
Teach English in Japan with NOVA! We are seeking enthusiastic and profes-sional individuals to join our teaching team in Japan!  For more information visit: http://www.nova.co.jp/hd/teachinjapan/    9-9-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake 
Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices
 24 Pets
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Savannah Jordan and the Florida soccer team won 7-2 on Sunday. Read our weekend roundup on pg. 16. "I wish someone would just light me up."
Florida quarterback Luke Del Rio, on not being tackled in a live game in 
over a year.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Florida’s offense took a major 
blow Monday, as coach Jim McEl-wain announced that Dre Massey will require season-ending surgery on his right knee.
The junior college transfer wide 
receiver suffered the injury on the opening kickoff of UF’s 24-7 win over UMass Saturday. Somehow, Massey played through the ailment until halftime. 
“There’s obviously a disappoint-ment anytime something like that happens,” McElwain said on Mon-day. “And yet, the beautiful thing about teammates, family is they’re there to support, elevate, pick him up. That’s what we saw. He had a lot of family members here too for the ﬁ  rst time. I know it was disap-pointing for him, and yet he’s got a lot of ball in front of him. He’ll get this thing handled.”
Massey, known for his electric 
speed, was likely going to be a big piece of the Gators’ passing and kick return games. He was Florida’s start-ing slot receiver 
Saturday. 
Quarterback 
Luke Del Rio said the loss is hard to swallow, but he’s conﬁ  dent the team can overcome the ob-
stacle.
“You know, it’s going to be tough 
to lose a great player like Dre,” Del Rio said. “But we’re talented in that room and we’ll rally around him and support him through the rehab pro-cess.”
Massey’s injury leaves a hole that 
will likely need to be ﬁ  lled by every-one, including younger players.
Freshmen wideouts Freddie 
Swain and Josh Hammond helped carry the load in their ﬁ  rst action on the ﬁ  eld, combining for seven catch-es and 49 yards. 
Fellow ﬁ  rst-year receivers Ty-
rie Cleveland and Rick Wells could help, too. McElwain said both will return to practice this week follow-ing a one-game suspension after an on-campus BB gun incident in July.Senior Ahmad Fulwood will espe-
cially need to step up. The 6-foot-4 receiver hauled in just one pass for 13 yards Saturday. 
And the team hopes junior C.J. 
Worton, who’s nursing a high ankle sprain, will practice at full health this week.
“Reconﬁ  guring some things at 
the wideout spot,” McElwain said. “Getting some bodies back, that’s going to be huge.”
McElwain also plans on getting 
creative with his running backs and 
 Injury notes: Massey out for season, Dawson will be backAfter a relatively horrid weekend for the Southeast-ern Conference, one that 
saw at least ﬁ  ve SEC teams 
lose to non-conference op-
ponents, Jim McElwain made his way to the third ﬂ  oor of Ben Hill 
Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Monday to ﬁ  eld 
questions from reporters.
“The ﬁ  rst game, you just never 
know,” McElwain said. 
Yeah. You really don’t know.
That was evident on Saturday, 
when it wasn’t completely clear that 
Florida would defeat middling, me-diocre Massachusetts — a team that owns an 8-41 record over its last four seasons — until UF took a 14-point lead in the fourth quarter.
It especially wasn’t clear as UF’s 
over-hyped running back group under-delivered, combining for 96 rushing yards among four players, none of whom had a run longer than 11 yards.
And it wasn’t clear with an of-
fensive line that was supposed to be drastically better than last year’s it-eration — when UF led the nation in sacks (45) — and which McElwain singled out as a unit that “has to be a lot better.”
So where does that leave Florida, which opens SEC play this week against Kentucky, a team much bet-ter than the Minutemen?
It’s not clear.There’s no question the Gators 
have to be better, from their offen-sive line to their running back core to their defensive back unit. 
It was obvious UF’s corners suf-
fered from the absent, suspended Jalen Tabor. UMass’ 53-yard com-pletion along the right sideline on a blown coverage by sophomore cor-nerback Chris Williamson is all the evidence you need.
And yes, it was just the ﬁ  rst 
game, and there’s no need to ca-reen to premature conclusions just yet. After all, over the weekend, No. 9 Tennessee almost lost to Appala-chian State in overtime, Mississippi State did lose to South Alabama, and Kentucky underwent an embarrass-ing 44-35 defeat to Conference-USA powerhouse Southern Mississippi.
So, yes, it was just the ﬁ  rst game. 
And even though Florida didn’t look like a team that was playing at home favored by 36 points, it’s OK, as long as it looks much different against Kentucky on Saturday.
The Gators need to make a state-
ment in their SEC opener. They need to show their ﬁ  rst game was noth-ing more than a ﬂ  uke, nothing more than ﬁ  rst-game jitters, nothing more than a one-game sample size that won’t be representative of how they play unranked opponents for the rest of the season.
Because if this team wants to 
build on last season’s SEC Champi-onship appearance and see improve- Florida must have strong showing vs. Kentucky
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenb
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Trainers attend to Duke Dawson, who went down with an arm injury on Saturday during Florida's 24-7 win over UMass at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Dawson is expected to return in time for Saturday's game against Kentucky. 
IT'S COHEN DOWN / OPINION 
Massey
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
SEE MASSEY,  PAGE 15the crowd chanting his name.
“That guy can really kick,” McEl-
wain said.
 “I’m so glad he’s here.”
Pineiro — the No. 1-rated junior 
college kicker in the country — was 
humble after the game.
“I really don’t care about the 
hype and all of that stuff,” he said. 
“I’m just focused on making this 
team better and putting up points, something they didn’t do in the kicking game last year.”
 But while McElwain praised Pi-
neiro, UF’s running backs left its of-
fense wanting more
Sophomore Jordan Scarlett led 
UF with 70 rushing yards, a figure 
McElwain credited to the UMass 
defense being vulnerable to outside 
runs. 
Still, McElwain said Scarlett 
hasn’t separated himself in the run-
ning back battle. Jordan Cronkrite, 
Lamical Perine and Thompson will 
still be in the mix. 
“We come ready to work every 
day at practice,” Thompson said. 
“Whoever works the hardest 
gets the ball the most.”
Because of the lack of explos-
vie plays from its offense, UF often relied on Pineiro, who already sur-
passed UF’s longest field goal from 
last season — a 43-yarder from Aus-
tin Harden — twice (48, 49 yards). 
McElwain is hoping he won’t 
need to lean on Pineiro as heavily 
this Saturday against Kentucky. 
“We gave Eddy some shots at 
some field goals,” McElwain said. 
“But I’d rather have touch-
downs.” 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida running back Jordan Scarlett (25) is tackled by three Massachusetts defenders during UF’s 24-7 win over UMass on Saturday. Scarlett, a junior from Ft. Lauderdale, led the Gators with 70 rushing yards. 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Defensive lineman CeCe Jefferson poses with a group of fans following Florida’s 24-7 win over UMass on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Eddy Pineiro waves to the crowd following UF’s 24-7 win over UMass on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
SPORTS,  from pg 1Pineiro went 3-for-3 on field goals, 2-for-2 on extra points TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.ment rather than a setback in Jim 
McElwain’s second year, then it has to be the team that beats down on Massachusetts and Southern Miss 
and South Alabama, not the one that 
scares fans into thinking that their 
Gators have a legitimate chance of losing to a team — like Massachu-setts — that transferred over to the Football Bowl Subdivision just four years ago.
So, is Florida that team?After Saturday’s game, it isn’t 
clear.
Ian Cohen is the sports editor. 
Contact him at icohen@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @icohenb. COLUMN,  from pg 13Can UF repeat as East champs?
tight ends in the wake of Massey’s injury.
“Obviously our use of multiple 
running backs, which we haven’t 
really done a ton of in the past, is 
something you’ll see more of,” he said. “That’s a position that we’ve 
got to lean on a little bit. Same thing with (DeAndre Goolsby) and (C’yontai Lewis) in the pass game.”
More injury notes:
Senior linebacker Daniel McMil-
lian suffered a high ankle sprain 
Saturday and could be out for an 
extended period of time. McElwain 
said he doesn’t think it’ll be season-
ending but acknowledged high 
ankle sprains can linger longer than expected. 
“We’ll see… He’s a tough guy,” McElwain said. 
Junior Duke Dawson left Satur-
day’s game with a right shoulder 
injury that McElwain described 
as “a little loose.” The cornerback was cleared for limited contact reps 
in practice and McElwain said he 
should be OK for this weekend’s 
game versus Kentucky. 
@pinakk12 
ppinak@alligator.orgMASSEY,  from pg 13Daniel McMillian has a high-ankle sprain
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Daniel McMillian (13), Marcus Maye (20) and Jordan Sherit (17) combine for a tackle on UMass receiver Sadiq Palmer during UF's 24-7 win over the Minutemen on Saturday.16   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 2016
WEEKEND ROUNDUP
Staff Report
Savannah Jordan is the 
NCAA’s active leader in ca-
reer goals scored, a three-time 
All-American and as of Sept. 1 
was one of only nine Division I players to have at least 12 points this season.
On Sunday, she showed 
why.
The senior’s skillset was on 
full display in the No. 5 Gators’ 
7-2 road victory over Oklahoma State as she scored two goals 
and notched two assists. 
The forward led a Florida 
(4-1) offense that scored seven 
goals in the second half — the 
most in a single half of action 
in program history.
“It was the tale of two halves 
for sure,” Florida coach Becky 
Burleigh said in a release.
“We talked at halftime about 
being patient and doing what 
we needed to do to get them 
out of the shape they were in. 
I thought we did a pretty good 
job of that.”
Jordan has six goals and six 
assists this season for a total of 
18 points. 
She is two assists away from 
her career high of eight assists with 12 regular-season matches 
still to play.
Aside from Jordan, sopho-
mores Mayra Pelayo and Mela-
nie Monteagudo both scored 
twice, and freshman Kit Lofer-
ski tallied her first collegiate 
goal. 
Next, the Gators continue 
their road trip when they travel 
to Lexington to face Kentucky 
on Thursday at 7 p.m. to open 
Southeastern Conference play.
UK is unranked and sports a 
2-2-1 record this season. 
The Gators were 8-2-1 in 
SEC play in 2015.
“This was a really good 
game in preparation of SEC 
play,” Burleigh said. 
“We’ll see some similar 
styles in terms of the SEC and 
we’ll see similar tactics.”
-Dylan Dixon Volleyball
The Florida Gators may have 
been thousands of miles from Gainesville, but it felt like a 
home match for Carli Snyder. 
Playing in front of over 40 
family members and friends in 
East Lansing, Michigan, Sny-
der led No. 7-ranked Florida 
en route to a 3-0 sweep over 
Michigan State at the Spartan 
Invitational on Sunday. UF 
opened the invitational with 
sweeps over Central Michigan 
and Morgan State. 
“Not all players coming back 
home have responded as well,” 
UF coach Mary Wise said post-
game. “I didn’t even have to talk to Carli about trying not to 
do too much.”
If the junior outside hit-
ter felt any pressure, her play 
didn’t betray it. 
With 15 kills on the day, 
Snyder notched her fifth con-
secutive double-digit kill per-
formance of the season, boost-
ing her team-leading attack to 
4.41 kills-per-set. 
She also chipped in five digs 
in another well-rounded effort. 
“I think you can pick any 
match we’ve played this year 
and use that for her All-Ameri-
can submission,” Wise said.
“She’s just playing at such a 
high level.”
However, she wasn’t alone. Despite attempting 10 fewer 
attacks than the Spartans, the Gators (4-1) clinched the match 
in convincing fashion, winning 
each set by an average margin 
of nine points. Alex Holston, Rhamat Al-
hassan and Morgyn Greer com-
bined for 22 kills, while Caro-
line Knop contributed a pair of 
service aces and Allie Monserez 
had 31 of her team’s 36 assists. 
The Gators will have less 
than a week to prepare before 
traveling to Brooklyn for the 
Blackbird Invitational.
“After playing two matches 
(Saturday) night … they were 
all exhausted,” Wise said. 
“But their attention to detail 
and following through, I am 
so pleased with where we are 
knowing it’s still so early.”
A radio broadcast contrib-
uted to this report.
-Alejandro López
Cross Country
Florida’s men’s and wom-
en’s teams both finished first Friday night at the Covered 
Bridge Open in Boone, North 
Carolina to open their seasons.
The men finished in a total 
time of 1:42.26, four seconds 
ahead of second-place finisher 
FSU. UF outscored FSU by six 
points. 
 The team had five top-20 
finishes, including a second-
place finish from senior Car-
los Miranda. Miranda, who 
finished seventh last year at 
the event, clocked a time of 
20.11.07.
Meanwhile, all seven of the 
women participating for Flori-
da finished in the top twenty. 
Senior Taylor Tubbs led the 
way, finishing second.
-Skyler LebronSoccer scores seven second-half goals, volleyball sweeps
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Mayra Pelayo dribbles the ball during Florida’s 7-2 win over 
Oklahoma State on Sept. 4, 2015, at James G. Pressly Stadium.
