By Caitlin Ostroff 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Abby Dougherty always wanted to be a 
Gator.
Though she never said it, her father, Pat 
Dougherty, noticed how Abby took to UF T-
shirts and Tim Tebow jumpers from a young age. From a family of Florida State Seminoles, 
her aunt fostered her love of UF. 
At Preview, Abby looked to leave a legacy. 
Watching staffers guide new students through 
campus, she wanted to help others as they did.
She turned to her father and said, “Dad, I’m 
going to be that next year. I’m going to leave 
my mark on this university.”
During her three years at UF, the applied 
physiology and kinesiology senior inﬂ  uenced 
hundreds of lives as a member of Campus 
Diplomats, an employee of the Field and Fork 
Food Pantry and a yoga instructor at UF Rec-
Sports. 
Abby was six days shy of her 21st birth-
day when she was killed Friday by a garbage 
truck while riding her bike north of campus. 
Gainesville Police is currently conducting a 
trafﬁ  c-homicide investigation.
UF will hold a memorial service the week of 
Nov. 7, and UF RecSports will offer a yoga class in her honor on Nov.2 from 5:15 p.m. to 6:15 p.m. in Ficke Gardens. Her family’s service will be on her birthday, Thursday, Pat Dougherty said, at 3 p.m. at Kays-Ponger and Uselton Fu-neral Home, located at 635 E. Marion Ave. in Punta Gorda, Florida. 
Abby would want her family to celebrate 
her birthday, not mourn her death, her father said.
“I think that’s the way she would have 
wanted it,” he said. 
•   •   •When Brittany O’Bryon-DeWerth, 20, ﬁ  rst 
met Abby in February, Abby wore a tiger-
themed onesie and a smile.
After seeing her outﬁ  t at the Campus 
Diplomats’ new-member meeting, O’Bryon-
DeWerth knew they would be close. They had 
similar bubbly and outgoing personalities, but 
Abby reminded her to take time for herself, the 
UF health education and behavior junior said. 
Two months later, Abby and Jake Kilgore, a 
20-year-old UF business administration junior, became O’Bryon-DeWerth’s mentees. They 
were “twins,” with O’Bryon-DeWerth acting 
as their “mom.” 
Despite Abby’s hectic schedule balancing 
school, work and clubs, she always remem-bered others, Kilgore wrote in an email. Dur-
ing Campus Diplomats’ mentor-appreciation 
week last week, she still found time to order O’Bryon-DeWerth a gift. 
The mug, which said something along 
the lines of, “I always knew I was the favor-ite child,” referenced a running joke between Abby and Kilgore. The gift hadn’t arrived as of Friday, but Kilgore said O’Bryon-DeWerth would have loved it. 
“During an incredibly stressful week for 
her, she was still able to be selﬂ  ess enough to show thanks to someone who means a lot to her, and I believe that is the most important thing about her,” Kilgore said.
•   •   •
Above all else, Abby wanted others to smile, 
laugh and surround themselves with love. 
Her father could see her going into medi-
cine. O’Bryon-DeWerth could see her starting a nonproﬁ  t. Kilgore could see her achieving whatever she set out to do.
After graduation, she planned to volunteer 
this summer. In the past, she had lent her time to children in Rwanda and Uganda.On Abby’s birthday, O’Bryon-DeWerth 
plans to release balloons at sunrise at Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park, one of Abby’s fa-vorite places.
O’Bryon-DeWerth still hears Abby’s infec-
tious laugh when she thinks of her. In her father’s mind, he sees a movie of her life on repeat.“She’s still here with all of us,” O’Bryon-
DeWerth said. “She’s probably more present now than ever. She always wanted to be every-where at once, and now she is.” 
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 50 MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016
Florida volleyball sweeps LSU
Middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan continued 
her dominance at the net, pg. 13
How to have a happy Halloween
See what’s happening tonight, pg. 3
Attempted sexual assault reported near campus
Police are looking for the suspect, pg. 5Obama speaks in Orlando
Some students skipped class to hear him speak, pg. 8
Some students skipped class to hear him speak,
  pg. 8
FLORIDA 24
 GEORGIA  10
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Jacob Eason danced out of the 
pocket and dashed toward the side-
line, keeping his eyes locked down-ﬁ  eld. 
At ﬁ  rst, blue jerseys blanketed his teammates. But with grass run-ning out, Georgia’s freshman quar-terback ﬁ  nally saw separation. 
Receiver Riley Ridley had gotten 
loose, and Eason tossed him the ball for an easy touchdown. 
In Florida’s 24-10 win over 
Georgia on Saturday, that play was the exception for a UF defense that dominated the Bulldogs. 
But while the defense managed 
to play well for the most part, the offense failed to produce more than 
a handful of highlight plays. 
That pattern — stout defense 
and mediocre offense — has been 
a consistent one for the No. 10 
Gators this season. 
And yet, the Gators are still in the running for a spot in the SEC Championship Game in December.
“The Florida Gators are a good 
team, all right?” coach Jim McEl-wain said following the win. 
“I’ll go with these guys against 
anybody. And we’ll ﬁ  gure out a way to get it done.”
So far, that has been with an 
elite defense and an offense that 
has been just decent enough to not lose games. 
So, naturally, when McElwain 
stood at the lectern to address re-
porters after the win over Georgia, 
one of the ﬁ  rst questions asked was 
about the disparity between the 
two sides of the ball. 
“Do you think you can win the 
SEC with your defense carrying an inordinate amount of the burden?”  SEC TITLE STILL IN SIGHT
UF leads the division
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15Courtesy to the Alligator 
Abby Dougherty, a 20-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology senior, poses in front of a Sabyinyo gorilla group at Volcanoes National Park in Rwanda in May. 
 ‘She’s still here with all of us’: A UF student remembered
She died Friday in a traic accidentSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  61°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Spring Awakening’ at UF from 
now until Sunday
The UF School of Theatre 
and Dance presents “Spring Awakening” from now until Sunday in the Constans Theatre 
at the Nadine M. McGuire 
Theatre and Dance Pavilion. This 
Tony Award-winning musical, based on the highly controver-
sial and oft-censored 1891 play 
by Frank Wedekind, is a raw and honest portrayal of youth and self-discovery. Performances are at 7:30 p.m. through Saturday and at 2 p.m. Sunday. Tickets for the production are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF faculty/staff and seniors and $13 for students. Tickets are avail-able through the University Box Office. More information is avail-able at arts.ufl.edu.
‘The Ocean and the Election’
What do next month’s elections mean for the sea? Find out in a free public lecture from ocean journalist David Helvarg on Thursday from 1:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 3320. Helvarg is a long-time ocean journalist and author whose books include “50 Ways to Save the Ocean,” “Saved by the Sea” and “The Golden Shore: California’s Love Affair with the Sea.” In his lecture “The Ocean and the Election,” Helvarg will share responses from presiden-tial candidates and ideas for how citizens can make a difference on behalf of oceans and coastal 
communities. Helvarg will also 
share the trauma and wonder he 
has experienced in, on and by 
the ocean, along with powerful imagery to remind us of all of 
the intimate ways our lives are 
linked to the sea. His talk will 
be followed by a book sale and 
signing.
‘Before the Flood’
“Before the Flood” will be shown Wednesday at 7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., Thursday at 7 p.m. and Saturday and Sunday 
at 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium by Reitz Union 
Board Entertainment. This doc-umentary takes a look at how climate change affects our envi-
ronment and what society can 
do to prevent the demise of en-
dangered species, ecosystems and native communities across the planet. There will be a post-screening discussion Thursday that will explore the questions “Before The Flood” asks: What impact do you have on the en-vironment? How can you do your part to help this planet? Voice your thoughts in a hands-on activity immediately after the showing.
RUB Entertainment presents 
Brent MorinReitz Union Board Entertainment presents a stand up comedy per-formance by Brent Morin on Wednesday in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. Brent Morin was the 
co-star on the NBC live com-
edy series “Undateable,” which 
just wrapped its third and final 
season. Most recently, Brent released his new Netflix spe-
cial “I’m Brent Morin,” which 
is streaming now. He has ap-
peared on “Chelsea Lately,” 
“Conan,” “Brooklyn 99,” “The McCarthys,” “Ground Floor” 
and Comedy Central. Only a year 
after his "New Faces" set at the 
Just for Laughs Comedy Festival in Montreal, Brent was named one of Variety’s Top Ten Comics 
To Watch.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 50
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, 
  Michael Smith, William Clewis
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Chomp or Treat
• Location: Evans Champion 
Club, Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, 157 Gale Lemerand Drive
• Time: 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
• Cost: Free
• About: The third annual Chomp or Treat will feature drinks and food, a costume contest and  games.
Boo at the Zoo
• Location: Santa Fe College T eaching Zoo, 3000 NW 83rd St.
• Time: 3 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
• Cost: One canned food item per person.
• About: Entertainment is be-ing provided by Danscompany Gainesville, which will perform dances of “Thriller” throughout 
the night. 
Halloween Party at The Social
at Midtown
• Location: 1728 W. University Ave.
• Time: 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.
• About: The Social at Midtown 
will be fully decorated for Hal-loween and have drink specials such as $2 Jager Shots, $5 Zom-bie Drinks and $5 Tito’s Witch’s Brew. This event is for ages 18 and up, with a live DJ and a cos-tume contest at 1 a.m.
Día de los Muertos Ball
• Location: St. Augustine Church and Catholic Student Center, 1738 W. University Ave.
• Time: 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.
• Cost: Free
• About: This will feature a night of music, food and dancing. Hosted by Nueva Alianza at UF, attendees are encouraged to wear semi-formal or formal at-tire. 
Halloween Spooky Spectacular
• Location: Market Street Pub and Cabaret, 112 SW First Ave.
• Time: 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.
• Cost: $3 cover charge
• About: Halloween Party with DJ Mister Obsidian and DJ Nekomancer. There will be a 
costume contest at midnight. 
This event is for ages 18 and up. 
Harry Potter Festival 
• Location: Jennings Hall, 1515 Museum Road
• Time: 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.
• Cost: Free
• About: Jennings Hall Govern-
ment is hosting the Start of T erm Festival, where attendees can enjoy butterbeer, food from Chick-ﬁ  l-A, games, wand-mak-ing and a photo booth. 
Halloween Family Night
• Location: Costa Vida Fresh Mexican Grill, 3581 SW Archer Road
• Time: 4 p.m. to 6 p.m.
• Cost: With every paid adult meal, one child will eat free and receive a ticket to participate in the activities.
• About: Come to a Halloween family night before you trick-or-treat. Enjoy dinner, face paint-
ing, candy, games and more.
Trick-or-Treat at Trader Joe’s
• Location: 3724 SW Archer Road
• Time: 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
• Cost: Free
• About: Trader Joe’s will have 
“treat stations” for young trick-or-treaters. Costumes are en-couraged. 
PLACES TO GO FOR HALLOWEEN By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
The night before Halloween, cobwebs 
stretched across the floor-to-ceiling book-
shelves inside Gainesville’s Civic Media 
Center, which celebrated its 23rd anniver-
sary Sunday.
A sheet with bloody handprints hung 
across the library’s bar, and a skeleton 
wearing a bike helmet sat next to the door. 
Outside, volunteers dusted four bicyclists with baby powder and black eyeshadow to give participants of the Zombie Bike Swarm an undead appearance.
Paul Faelner sat with his eyes closed as 
a volunteer brushed his eyelids with dark powder. 
“I think there’s ketchup we can use for 
blood, but I’m not doing that,” he said. “I like this shirt too much.”
When the 23-year-old UF research assis-
tant at the College of Dentistry heard about the small, haunted race through the city, 
he said he was game.
When the bicyclists finished their race, 
which included stops at Curia on The Drag 
and Maude’s Side Car Bar, they returned to 
the Civic Media Center for a concert, cos-
tume contest and after-party.Inside, attendees danced, drank and 
listened to local bands perform. One man, who would not give his name, dressed in 
Christmas lights and only communicated 
on a letter-by-letter basis using an LED-powered alphabet — an ode to the Netflix series “Stranger Things.”
When asked what he was dressed as, 
the man simply spelled out “run.”
Makeda Meeks, one of the event’s co-
coordinators, said although there were only four bikers, she expected around 100 
people to attend the party — and $1,000 to 
be raised.
“We’ve had so many people and com-
munity members show support for us 
through this event,” she said. “We’re so 
grateful.”
Nick Todd borrowed his partner’s bike 
for the evening.
Todd, who was dressed as his dog, Sel-
kie, wore a fur vest and said he was excited to bike around town.
“Everywhere I go is within a few blocks 
of where I live,” he said. “This time of year 
is so nice for biking, I’m just glad I can be 
out there, but especially looking like this.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016
THE TWITTER-OWNED COMPANY 
MADE THE ANNOUNCEMENT 
THURSDAY.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
As other students move on to different apps, Kristen 
Harding, 21, still uses Vine to send funny videos to her 
friends. 
“It was a way for my friends and I to stay connect-
ed,” the UF food and resource economics junior said.
Vine will discontinue its mobile app “in the coming 
months,” the company, which is owned by Twitter, an-nounced in a tweet Thursday. The app, which allows users to share and watch six-second videos, is still up for now, and the website will be kept active to re-watch videos, according to the statement. 
Harding still relies on the app for entertainment. “You can watch it over and over again, and it never 
loses its comical relief,” she said. 
Harding said she used to go on the app every day 
but has since decreased her usage to once every few days. 
“It was just a thing of the past,” she said. “I got busy 
and new apps came out.” 
Regan Hamrick, a UF health education and behavior 
junior, said she used to stay up laughing at Vines with her roommate in Murphree Hall during her freshman year. 
“At the end of the day, it’s a really good way to 
laugh,” the 20-year-old said. “It’s a fun app to mess around on.”
Like Harding, Hamrick now only goes on the app a 
few times a week, but she said she was sad to hear of it’s discontinuation. 
“I don’t use it as much anymore, but I know it still 
has a pretty big fan base,” she said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org UF students 
react to the 
end of VineABOUT 20 ATTENDEES PAINT -
ED A DOWNTOWN WALL.
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
The previously plain wall outside Leon-
ardo’s 706 was covered in green, orange 
and blue paint Friday afternoon.
Led by Andrew Pisacane, a street art-
ist known as Gaia, about 20 students and 
Gainesville residents learned about murals 
by painting one themselves.
The UF School of Art and Art History or-
ganized the workshop in partnership with 352walls, a Gainesville urban art program celebrating its second season this year. 
By 3 p.m., the students painted a pat-
tern of hands holding oranges amid green leaves.
“Everyone wants to speak on a 12-story 
scale,” Pisacane said. “Not everyone gets to do it.”
The 28-year-old has made a career out 
of it, known locally for the mural he paint-ed downtown as part of 352walls and for other murals in St. Petersburg, Russia, and New York City.
Pisacane said UF paid him to teach a 
pair of workshops, the first of which took place Thursday. Workshops with other art-ists are scheduled to take place through the end of October and throughout November, according to the 352walls website. 
The money Pisacane earned, he said, 
was used to organize a panel Tuesday night during which international artists and activists talked about the cultural im-
portance of street murals.
Although the mural will soon be paint-
ed over, Pisacane said he hoped students 
learned about the skills and state of mind necessary to create more meaningful art in the future.
For him, painting murals isn’t sim-
ply about using proper brush strokes; it’s about creating something a community 
can connect with.
His downtown mural, titled “What Are the Aesthetics of Reinvestment,” depicts 
gentrification of the Porters Quarters, a his-torically African-American neighborhood in Gainesville. To ensure the mural would 
be well-received, he spoke with local resi-
dents and activists before painting it.
After about an hour of teaching tech-
niques on the Leonardo’s 706 wall, he split the students into three groups: spray paint, brushes and rollers.
“Use your initiative to f--- around and 
put paint on the walls,” he said to the stu-dents.
For Ciera Merritt, a UF visual art studies 
junior, it wasn’t that simple.
“Painting is not my strong suit,” she 
said.
Still, the 20-year-old shook a can of 
spray paint, pressed down and started moving her hand along the white wall.
“I’m just trying to push out of my com-
fort zone,” she said.Street artist hosts mural-painting workshop
UPCOMING 352WALLS 
EVENTS
WORKSHOPS
• David Zayas: Friday at Leonardo’s 706
• Elbow T oe: Nov. 18, location TBD
MURAL PAINTING• David Zayas: Now to Nov. 8 at Leonardo’s 706
• Elbow T oe: Nov. 14 to Nov. 20, location TBD
T o register for workshops, contact econnelly@arts.ufl.edu.
Carly Breitbart / Alligator
Andrew Pisacane, the artist known internationally as Gaia, demonstrates spray paint strokes in front of about 20 students and Gainesville residents at his work-shop. “Those are my little strategies, ” he said. “Everything else is social. ”
Molly Donovan / Alligator Staff
Makeda Meeks uses eyeshadow to brush zombie bruises on Nick T odd’s face. The two are volunteers at the Civic Media Center, which celebrated its 23rd anniversary this year.Civic Media Center celebrates Halloween with zombie ride, concertBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
After ﬁ  rst responders found a drunk-
en UF student covered in urine and blood 
Friday, the student refused their help and assaulted a lieutenant, Gainesville Police said.
At about 2 a.m., 21-year-old Jackson 
Kilcoyne lay unresponsive in a puddle of his own blood near St. Augustine Church, located at 1738 W. University Ave., according to a police report. When 
emergency medical service employees 
attempted to help, Kilcoyne became ag-
gressive.
The responders told Kilcoyne, de-
scribed in the report as “extremely in-
toxicated,” that they would take him to 
the hospital, but Kilcoyne refused to go, according to the report. He then stood up and began yelling in the face of an EMS lieutenant, who grabbed Kilcoyne’s arm 
and insisted he be taken to a hospital.
Kilcoyne, who is listed as a student 
in UF’s online directory, then grabbed 
the lieutenant’s arms, lifted him up and pushed him into a brick ﬂ  ower bed. After 
a brief struggle, responders were able to 
restrain him.GPD arrested Kilcoyne on a charge 
of battery on a law enforcement ofﬁ  cer. They took him to the Alachua County 
Jail, where he was released Saturday on 
his own recognizance. 
As of press time, Kilcoyne could not 
be reached for comment.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
HE WAS JAILED ON A $2.4 
MILLION BOND.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
When Florida Highway Patrol pulled 
over a Miami man Friday morning, he 
seemed visibly nervous, his hand shaking 
as he handed over his driver’s license, FHP said.
Though they had ﬂ  agged him for speed-
ing on Interstate 75 near Micanopy, Florida, 
they soon found the numbers to 616 credit 
cards in 30-year-old Lesly Perez Diaz’s pos-
session, according to an FHP report.
He was arrested on charges that put 
him in the Alachua County Jail facing a 
$2,486,000 bond.
At about 11 a.m., Perez stopped his red 
Nissan and consented to a pat down, his 
heart noticeably pounding, according to the 
report. He seemed unsure of where he was going, stating he was traveling from Miami to Ocala, despite having passed Ocala.During the search, a trooper found eight 
credit cards underneath Perez’s underwear, each bearing different numbers on their magnetic strips than on the back of the cards. In his wallet, two other cards — and a thumb drive containing the numbers to 606 more — were found, according to the report.
None of the names 
on the credit cards in the thumb drive belonged to 
him, according to the re-port. He told the trooper 
he found the thumb drive 
and used it for music.
Troopers arrested him 
on charges of trafﬁ  ck-
ing in or possessing 50 or more counterfeit 
credit cards, use of scanning device or re-
encoder to defraud, dealing in credit cards 
of another and criminal use of personal 
identiﬁ  cation information.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Police are looking for a man after a 
woman reported an attempted sexual as-
sault near campus early  Sunday morning, 
University Police said in a UF timely warn-
ing emailed out Sunday night.
At about 1 a.m., the 18-year-old woman 
became separated from her friends near 
downtown and then walked alone down 
Southwest Eighth Street near University Avenue, according to the warning. 
The man then approached the woman 
and pulled her into a dark area away from the sidewalk, according to the warning.
The woman was able to strike the man 
in the face and neck, knocking him back-ward and freeing herself before running away. The man was never caught. The crime was ﬁ  rst reported by Gainesville Po-
lice, but UPD sent out the timely warning 
because of the crime’s proximity to cam-pus. The man was described having a mus-
cular build and being about 6 feet tall with short dark brown hair and brown eyes. He 
was wearing an orange ﬁ  shing shirt and 
jeans. 
In the warning, police reminded stu-
dents to be aware of their surroundings, 
especially when wearing headphones, 
which could block out the sound of some-one’s approach. 
“The UFPD ﬁ  rmly believes that the 
crime is never the fault of the victim,” the 
warning read. 
Anyone with information about the re-
port or who knows where the suspect may 
be is encouraged to call the Gainesville 
Police Department at 352-955-1818 or text 
keyword GPDFL plus the tip to 274637. Those wishing to remain anonymous can call Crime Stoppers at 352-372-7867. 
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org Police: Covered in urine, UF student assaults ﬁ  rst responder
 Miami man arrested with 
numbers to 616 credit cardsGPD searching for suspect after 
attempted assault near campus· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · · 911 REPORT · 911 
Kilcoyne
Diaz
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Tina Belcher and 
confrontational 
comedy
Perhaps one of the greatest challenges a humorist must 
face is making jokes on topics that are extremely per-sonal. In times of heightened sensitivity, this challenge only becomes more difﬁ  cult. Although jokes about things people can’t change are always dangerous terri-
tory for comedians, there’s one show on television right now that confronts autism in a way that is delicate, respectful and downright hilarious.
“Bob’s Burgers” was nominated for the Primetime Emmy 
Award for Outstanding Animated Program in 2012 and 2013 before winning it in 2014. There’s not too much talk about controversial topics — most of the humor focuses on put-ting eclectic and quirky characters in weird situations. But there’s one main character, Tina Belcher, who stands out. 
While each member of the Belcher family has funny man-
nerisms and personality traits, the show suggests that Tina might be autistic.
Tina is a 13-year-old girl on the brink of adulthood. The 
mix of pre-puberty and her supposed autism makes for a weirdly funny dimension. There’s only one episode in which this is mentioned overtly. When Tina and her brother, Gene, are arguing over who has to wear a hamburger costume in front of the family restaurant, Bob Belcher, the father, claims 
Tina’s “not good with the customers.” An argument ensues, 
and Louise, the youngest daughter, says Tina is “autistic.” Tina, in perfect monotone, replies, “Yeah, I’m autistic.” Bob shouts at them, saying Tina is not, in fact, autistic. 
Apart from that, the show never confronts Tina’s alleged 
autism directly. The audience is forced to wonder about it indirectly. Tina has absolutely no social skills. When under pressure, she audibly groans, hides under tables, is incred-ibly naive and is incapable of detecting sarcasm. Moreover, 
Tina seems distant and emotionless, and when she experi-
ences feelings, she does not display them. Her voice is totally devoid of inﬂ  ection.
Tina is conﬁ  dent as hell. You’ve probably seen Tina’s face 
with her quintessential quote, “I am a smart, strong, sensual woman,” sprawled under it somewhere on the internet. This conﬁ  dence is essential to her character not only because it’s funny, but also because it makes having an autistic character in a prime-time cartoon comedy permissible.
Because Tina is conﬁ  dent and capable, the writers aren’t 
insulting her and making her the butt (nailed it) of the joke. Tina is constantly demonstrating that she is very intuitive, creative and insightful. While she certainly is aloof, she’s not dumb. They show a tremendous amount of respect for Tina, who is constantly trying to clean up the mess her mischie-vous little sister and brother make, all while dealing with her own typical teenage-girl problems. 
She’s ordinary. She’s normal. That’s why “Bob’s Burgers” 
gets away with it. There’s no doubt in the viewers’ minds that she is, in fact, a strong and smart young woman (maybe not so sensual, but it’s cute that she thinks so). The show is monumental in the sense that a character with autism is so popular, so organically funny and in no way marginalizes people who are autistic. It’s a testament that comedy can touch on seriously personal and difﬁ  cult topics in a way that is acceptable, hysterical and sometimes even productive.  Grim grinning votes: Be aware of voter suppression
Halloween is a time for goblins, 
ghosts, witches, wizards and other spooky creatures to come out. But 
still the scariest thing is voter sup-
pression.
The Donald Trump campaign recently said 
it was going to use voter suppression efforts 
in order to win the election, according to the 
The New York Times. The senior ofﬁ  cial re-ported they would try to curb the voting of “idealistic white liberals, young women, and African-Americans.”
Instead of reaching out to these communities to win 
them over, the Trump campaign has decided that in or-der for Trump to win, these groups need to stay home Nov. 8. His supporters have even called for a repeal of 
the 19th Amendment, which would take away women’s 
rights to vote. It’s at least an acknowledgement that cer-tain communities have historically not voted Republi-can — and for good reason.
Although voter suppression sounds like it’s an obvi-
ous thing to spot because it should be illegal, there are legal maneuvers that end up lowering the number of people who can vote. These regulations usually involve creating undue burden on people who just want their 
voices to be heard.
Florida recently experienced its own form of voter 
suppression: taking advantage of a natural disaster to 
lower the number of registered voters. 
Florida Gov. Rick Scott was not willing to push back 
the voter registration deadline after Hurricane Matthew — even though it would only be beneﬁ  cial for the dem-ocratic process if the deadline was extended. It took the action of a federal judge to give potential voters more 
time to register. Scott’s excuse for this was that “people 
have had time to register,” according to CNN. As many of the people who were in Florida during the hurricane might agree, it was a very hectic time, and voter registration may not have been a top priority for anyone.
The Trump campaign’s outright admis-
sion of voter suppression is new, but the techniques behind it are not. Requiring voter IDs, restricting early voting and not having 
Election Day as a national holiday all restrict 
people who might want to express their pref-erences from voting. 
In many ways, Trump was a monster cre-
ated by the Republican Party, and their inability to con-
front their party’s association with hatred and bigotry 
allowed him to succeed. 
If racism isn’t a big deal and calling it out is too 
politically correct, then it’s no wonder Trump 
is the candidate. Trump is deﬁ  nitely more up-
front about his racist tendencies than other Re-publicans, but he would not be where he is today without the support of his enablers within the Repub-lican Party.
Even though Republicans try to claim that voter-ID 
laws and other such restrictions are created to crack down on voter fraud, their own supporters commit vot-er fraud, too. 
A Trump supporter was arrested in Polk County, 
Iowa, for voting twice. Even though Polk is the most populous county in Iowa, it was the ﬁ  rst time in 12 years the county auditor could remember having to re-port voter fraud, according to The Washington Post.
So today, on Halloween, don’t let yourself be scared 
by the costumes people wear once a year. Think about the real threats that are faced in this election: the po-tential lost votes that could sway the election in a more 
progressive direction.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science junior. Her col-
umn appears on Mondays.MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Melvin Henderson felt like a failure as 
a parent each time he had to wait outside of a public restroom.
“Hardest time I ever had raising 
you was whenever we took a trip on 
vacation, where we were driving and had to take a stop to go to the bathroom, because I couldn’t go in the  bathroom with you,” he ad-mitted. “I would have to ﬁ  nd someone to take you in for me.”
As a single parent, he was used to doing 
everything for his child. To him, it felt like the law was more of a hindrance than a help.
As his daughter, I always remember him 
being there, but he’s adamant to this day that he let me down somehow.
“No, because that’s one of the times you’re 
supposed to be able to do things, you’re on a vacation just driving somewhere,” he said.
“It’s just a complicated situation, because 
you have a male and a female,” he added. “Women take little boys with them into the bathroom all the time, but you can’t take a 
little girl into the men’s bathroom.”
The public restroom is just one area where single fathers encounter difﬁ  culties. 
As a woman raised by her father, these instances were normal for me. Different women’s hands in mine at rest stops with soft pity in their eyes 
and kindness on their lips were just 
part of life for me.
According to a U.S. Census Bu-
reau survey conducted in 2015, 16 percent of single parents are men. The percentage may seem small, but that’s a lot of kids growing up afraid of the toilet-bowl monster.
If the legal system rested less on gender 
bias, it wouldn’t have to be this way. Until the 2000s, courts maintained that ruling in the best interest of the child was by siding with the mother. That is part of the issue.
The other part is sometimes men don’t even 
ask. Because men are not traditionally the sole caretakers of their children, they might hesi-tate to push for custody. Gender roles suggest that women are more ﬁ  t to parent because of 
their supposed universal nurturing qualities, 
but that is not supported by anything but ste-reotype.
Pushing for more paternal cus-
tody may seem foolish, especially when statistics show that their in-volvement in their children’s care 
is lower than the Dolphins’ winning 
percentage, but I think we should expect more accountability at least.
“People looked at us differently 
only because they thought it was cute that a guy was taking care of his daughter,” Henderson said. “And when people found out I was 
raising you, they thought it was very interest-
ing — something unique and special — be-
cause most guys don’t raise their daughters.”
To be fair, I’m lucky. If my dad was any 
more laid-back, he’d be on the ﬂ  oor. He doesn’t yell. He doesn’t curse. He always puts the fear of God in me when he says “good grief,” be-cause that’s as close as he gets.
It's so funny to realize people thought he 
was mistreating me because of this idea that 
men don’t make good parents on their own. 
“Guys raise sons sometimes, but deﬁ  nitely you didn’t see that often with a guy raising a 
girl. They thought it was too difﬁ  cult,” he likes to say. I don't think it’s that hard, but the fact that men think they can’t is the problem.
What we fail to realize is that gender is not 
an indicator of personality or needs. Women do not have to be the sympathetic parent who helps with homework or gives dating advice. Men do not have to be the disciplinarian. These are just two facets of a parent. They are by no means mutually exclusive, and one per-son can do it all for his or her child.
“Each child is different,” Henderson said. 
“So you can’t just set one group of rules for 
all children.
“There’s no set book — ‘This is what you 
do for a girl, this is what you do for a boy’ — 
it’s as occasions arise that you deal with them and learn from them,” he explained. “There’s no perfect parent. There’s no perfect child.”
Recognizing this is one important step in 
the legal battle for single parents.
Brooke Henderson is a UF international 
studies and journalism sophomore. Her col-umn appears on Mondays.
This week, a thing is going to happen: We are going to choose our new presi-dent. Let’s take a moment to talk about the gravity of that last statement. We are going to choose our new president. 
Who are we to be making this decision? We’re just people. However, we live in a society in which we’ve been gifted with the privilege to elect our own leader. Although we are certain-ly allowed to complain about our choices and be dissatisﬁ  ed, let’s not forget how truly amaz-ing this concept is.
We could live in a society in which the gov-
ernment just makes this decision for us, and 
we have to deal with it. Or, we could live in a 
society with no government and exist in total anarchy. Remember, it could always be worse. When we take a step back and look at the big picture, we are reminded how truly lucky we are.
Moving forward, I hope every person feels 
comfortable sharing his or her opinion, as I feel every person should be able to. If I’ve witnessed any trend dur-ing this presidential election season, it is that although some people are extremely comfortable sharing their 
opinions, not everyone is.
Being vocal is ﬁ  ne. I want you to 
be vocal. It may get a little loud, but 
that’s OK. The problem doesn’t lie in volume, it lies in feeling that what you have to say is more important than what others have to say. I’d like to serve as your friendly neigh-borhood wake-up call today. What you have 
to say is not more important than what anyone 
else has to say. You don’t have to agree with everyone. You don’t have to completely under-stand what they’re saying or have experienced all they have in life. You don’t have to con-vince anyone they’re wrong and you’re right. You are more than welcome to educate people. Please do. However, let them think what they want to think.
I think this is why many people 
keep quiet. They may think if they stay quiet, their opinions are pro-tected. Is this the idea we want to 
perpetuate? Why should we have 
to assume that opening our mouths opens us to bad attitudes, ruined friendships or hateful Facebook comments? If we’ve learned any-thing since the dawn of time, it’s that humans generally have a hard time avoiding conﬂ  ict. We get mad 
and start ﬁ  ghting, be it physically or verbally. 
It’s time we recognize that harmonious living 
does not have to mean agreeing with each oth-er. It’s all about respect.
We are not all going to agree. That is just 
the reality of the world. In a bipartisan system, there are two viable sides to nearly every is-sue. That’s why we vote. If it were abundantly obvious that one side was completely correct and the other was completely incorrect beyond a shadow of a doubt, then we would not have to vote. There would be no reason for political parties, elections or opinions in general. This would certainly make for less animosity, but I 
don’t think we’d be better off.
Opinions are what separate humans from 
robots of political theory. Talk about why 
you believe what you believe. Listen to oth-ers. Keep your mind open. If you believe so strongly in something, it should be able to withstand hearing some opposing views. Be rational. We’re all trying to make the world a better place, right? There has to be more than 
one way to do it. No single person’s ideas will 
likely be enough to do what we have to do. Collaboration is necessary, so let’s collaborate. Share your thoughts, but please extend others the same courtesy.      
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF psychology and 
journalism sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.Appreciate single parents, because mothers and fathers can do it on their own
Sharing your thoughts and opinions is much better than stifling others’ Column
ColumnBrooke 
Henderson
opinions@alligator.org
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016
NATIONAL
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Julianna Johnson, 18, emailed 
her professor Wednesday asking if 
she could turn in her assignment by email.
Instead of going to her morning 
American History class, the UF soci-ology freshman wanted to see Presi-dent Barack Obama speak in her hometown of Orlando on Friday. Her 
professor said yes a few hours later.
“I guess he thought that was a 
pretty good reason to miss class,” 
Johnson said.
Johnson was one of thousands 
who attended an early voting rally 
at the University of Central Florida, 
where Obama urged young voters to cast their ballots for the upcom-ing elections before Election Day on 
Nov. 8. 
He urged them to support Demo-
cratic Rep. Patrick Murphy in his 
race for Florida Senate against Re-publican incumbent Marco Rubio 
as well as Democratic presidential 
nominee Hillary Clinton.   “I’m not tired,” he told the crowd. 
“I’m feeling good. I’m ready to work, 
and I need you to join me. Florida, I need you to join me. Young people, I need you to join me. And you don’t need to wait till November 8.”
Before the doors opened, Or-
lando resident Janeka Lloyd waited with her son, Jevon Cherry, in a line of more than 10,000 people that stretched around a corner and down the sidewalk.  
The 34-year-old, who remembers 
seeing Obama before he took office, said she wanted to see him before his term ends.
“Plus,” she said, patting Jevon, 6, 
on the head, “this is history for this little guy.”
Jevon said he liked the fact that 
Obama was supporting Clinton.
“I like Hillary,” he said.UF medical student Faiz Jiwani, 
who works as a paid canvasser for the Clinton campaign, arrived before the doors opened to help out at the event.
The 26-year-old said he wanted 
to get involved not only for his fu-ture, but for the future of his patients as well. Clinton, he said, cares about people.
“I have a moral obligation to sup-
port that,” he said, adding that he did not want to watch the elections from the sidelines.
In his speech, Obama took time 
to address accomplishments made during his terms, throw support behind Clinton and call Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump a slacker.
“There is only one candidate in 
this race who I believe can contin-ue the progress we’ve made, and I know that because she’s devoted her life to making America better,” he said.
For Johnson, who attended the 
rally with friends, seeing Obama speak was worth the four-hour wait.
“The highlight of it all was the 
simple fact that it was Obama, and I got to see him before he left office,” Johnson said. “Obama is the first black president, and that means a lot to me.”  
When Obama mentioned Rubio’s 
support for Trump, the crowd re-acted with boos. As if knowing this would happen, he responded.
“Don’t boo,” he said. “Vote.” 
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org
UF students, Orlando residents gather to hear Obama speak
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Jenna Nation, 26, sells shirts for Hillary Clinton’s campaign on North Orion Boulevard in Orlando on Friday. By noon, hundreds of people were waiting in line to enter the University of Central Florida’s CFE Arena to see President Barack Obama rally for Clinton.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
President Barack Obama speaks at a rally in Orlando at the University of Central Florida’s CFE Arena to show support for Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton on Friday.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
A Hillary Clinton supporter holds a sign supporting Hillary Clinton while listening to President Barack Obama rally in support of the Democratic presidential candidate almost a week before elections.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $350 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
11-18-16-14-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   11-15-16-20-22 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    11-10-16-12-2
Duplex for rent 2 BR/1 bath. central heat-air. Fenced backyard. washer/dryer for use on site. New gas stove. Close to 2 city parks. $600/ month with $500 deposit. 3214 NW 20th St. 352-376-4581 11-1-3-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 AutosMONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
2001 Toyota Tacoma
V6 4dr Double Cab 4WD , automatic, $2900, 
gasoline, 177.000 mi. . Call at 7852518737     
10-31-16-5-12
1998 Ford Explorer, great condition,
leather interior, must see to appreciate. 
$1,500 OBO. Call 352-281-8623    10-31-
16-5-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13
Designated drivers are the greatestALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Gamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Studen/t.end Livin/g.end Guid/e.end
Advertise in The Alligator’s Student Living Guide, which 
publishes on the same day as UF’s off-campus housing fair. 
Quarter page ads and larger will receive free map spotting!
Contac/t.end Your Sale/s.end Rep352-376-4482
Deadlin/e.end 11-14
Ru/n.end Dat/e.end 11-18
ACROSS
1 Words before
“Tricked you!”
5 Whirled
9 Exxon merger
partner
14 Musk of Tesla
Motors
15 Syllables from
Santa
16 Get away from,
as pursuers
17 Tooth anchor18 Border on
19 Female 33-
Across
20 Bovine skin once
used as apainting surface
by Native
Americans
23 Nocturnal flier
24 Partner25 Peruvian peaks
27 Music room
system
30 Zsa Zsa, to Eva
32 Toasty33 Untamed
equines
37 Baba who
outwitted thieves
38 Actor Mineo39 Med. care option40 Rio Grande
feeder
45 Italia’s capital46 Halloween
goodies
47 Equal to, with
“with”
49 Like sheep sans
wool
50 Pained cry51 Guerrilla
Guevara
52 Stack for the
bookkeeper topay ... or, literally,what 20-, 33- and40-Across’ firstwords constitute
58 Western writer
Bret
60 Many61 Tidy62 “Know what __?”63 Rural storage
cylinder
64 Scarlett O’Hara’s
home65 IRS examination
66 Go berserk
67 “Not great, not
bad”
DOWN
1 Basil or rosemary2 Baseball family
name
3 Pig’s foot part
4 Insect nest with
tunnels
5 Perfect for
wading
6 N’awlins
sandwich
7 “Nope”8 “The Little Red
Hen” denial
9 Souvenir
10 Eggs in a lab
11 Clip joint?
12 Imagination
output
13 For fear that
21 Stein filler22 Pinch from a chef26 German article
27 Trade
28 “Cautionary”
account
29 Leif’s father30 Poles and Serbs31 Not doing much
of anything
34 “What time __?”
35 Poet Lazarus
36 Fly high
41 Guatemala gold
42 Eden tempter
43 Rajah’s mate44 Santa’s landing
spot
45 Met by chance48 Catch, as a crook
49 SeaWorld orca50 Dough in a wallet
51 “Pet” with Smiley
and Winky
versions
53 Young lady
54 Model Nordegren
once married to
Tiger Woods
55 Radiator problem56 Tomb Raider’s
__ Croft
57 Stick around59 Mai __
By Jerome Gunderson
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/31/1610/31/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, October 31, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1. In 2015, Alex Rodriguez became 
the second player to belt 30 or more 
homers in 15 major-league seasons. Who was the first?
2. How many combined years did 
Chuck Tanner and Jim Leyland man-age the Pittsburgh Pirates?
3. When was the last time before 
2015 that Duke’s football team won a game without scoring a touchdown?
4. How many times have the Atlanta 
Hawks reached the conference finals following the franchise’s move from 
St. Louis?
5. Who was the last Chicago Black-
hawk before Patrick Kane in 2016 
to win the Hart Trophy as the NHL’s 
Most Valuable Player?
6. Name the first driver to win a race 
in all three major NASCAR series: Cup, Xfinity and trucks.
7. Who are the only two male tennis 
players to win all four Grand Slam tournaments in the same calendar year?
Answers
1. Hank Aaron.2. Twenty — Tanner managed nine 
seasons (1977-85), and Leyland fol-lowed with 11 (1986-96).
3. It was 1978 (3-0 against Wake 
Forest).
4. Three times — the 1968-69 sea-
son, 1969-70 and 2014-15.
5. Stan Mikita, in 1968.6. Ken Schrader, who completed the 
“triple threat” in 1995.
7. Don Budge (1938) and Rod Laver 
(1962, ‘69).
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 31, 2016 King Features Weekly Service12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Swimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Love Hiking or Running?P/T position avail- to work with like minded folks.20 hr/wk inc Sat. or Sun. a must. Apply in person to Lloyd Clarke Sports.1504 NW 13 St. 1 m N of UF    11-2-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida moves up in AP T op 25 poll
The Florida football team moved up four spots to No. 10 in the latest Associ-
ated Press T op 25 college football poll, released Sunday. This is the third-straight week where the Gators have moved up in the AP Poll.UF coach Jim McElwain and the 
Gators defeated Georgia 24-10 on Saturday. For photos from the game, see pg. 14.By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
Rhamat Alhassan stood behind 
the serve line and slammed a ball over the net that bounced about a foot inside LSU territory. The ref-eree called the ball out, giving the point to the Tigers.
Head coach Mary Wise, ada-
mant the ball was in, walked over to the scoring desk and raised her yellow challenge card.
After a minute-long review 
overturned the call and gave Al-
hassan her second ace of the 
match, libero Caroline Knop ran to the sideline, sliding to her knees before Gator chomping 
with freshman defensive special-
ist Chanelle Hargreaves while the 
rest of Florida’s bench broke out in jubilation.
“It’s a celebration of the hard 
work (Alhassan’s) put in,” Wise 
said.
Alhassan’s ensuing serve run 
in that second set was short lived, 
but the Gators’ energy didn’t cease.
Behind an all-around dominant 
performance from Alhassan, a multifaceted offensive attack and a stifling defensive outing, the No. 9 Gators cruised to a 3-0 victory over LSU on Sunday to close out a perfect four-match homestand and keep Florida at the top of the Southeastern Conference leader-board with seven regular-season conference matches to play.
“I think we all played well,” 
said senior right-side hitter Alex Holston, who led the Gators with 10 kills and tallied a .714 hitting efficiency. “We executed the game plan well and we won. We’re all happy about that.”
Alhassan made her presence 
known in all phases of the match. The 6-foot-4 middle blocker re-
corded seven kills and a team-
high-tying four blocks while at 
the net. On the defensive side, the junior recorded a pair of service aces and a career-high-tying five 
digs.
In the first set, Alhassan led 
a seven-point serving run dur-
ing which she recorded her fifth 
ace of the season and the Gators 
forced LSU to commit five attack 
errors. The run gave UF a 16-5 ad-
vantage in a set it eventually won 25-11.
“Her serving, her back-row 
play, that doesn’t come easy to 
her,” Wise said. “It’s not like the 
blocking and hitting when she’s jumping over 11 feet. She’s had 
to work through that to get to this 
point.”
In addition to Alhassan and 
Holston, freshman middle blocker 
Darielle King played a major role 
in Florida’s offense on Sunday. 
King, seeing her first extensive 
playing time since UF’s 3-0 win against LIU Brooklyn in early Sep-tember, tallied six kills and a ca-reer-high-tying four blocks against LSU. 
King subbed in for fellow fresh-
man Rachael Kramer midway through the first set and said she was nervous as she took the court.
But as the match progressed, 
her anxiety subsided and she be-gan to look like a starter by the match’s conclusion.
“I’ve been watching and kind 
of scoping things out (this sea-son), so I haven’t really had the opportunity to go out and play,” King said. “I just felt so happy. It was a good feeling.”
Florida hit .421 as a team, 
marking the third time during the four-match homestand where the Gators surpassed the .400 mark. Five Gators recorded at least five kills.
Conversely, Florida (20-2, 10-1 
SEC) held LSU to a .022 hitting ef-ficiency in the three-set contest. The Gators were efficient behind the serve line and at the net, using 
cross-court swings to keep the Ti-
gers (7-15, 2-9 SEC) on their toes 
for a majority of the match while a back row led by Knop stymied 
everything LSU threw at them.
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.orgAlhassan’s dominance lifts No. 9 Florida to win over LSU
THE SENIOR LINEBACKER PLAYED 
DESPITE AN ANKLE INJURY SUSTAINED 
TWO WEEKS EARLIER.
By Ethan Bauer 
Sports Writer 
JACKSONVILLE — Jarrad Davis cried out in pain as the stadium went quiet. 
The linebacker pounded his right leg on the 
ground in frustration, unable to move the other as 
trainers tended to his injured ankle. 
Coach Jim McElwain regularly refers to Davis 
as the “heart and soul” of Florida’s defense, and 
now he watched as that heart was reluctantly 
ripped out by way of a gingerly limp to the locker 
room. That was two weeks ago during Florida’s win 
over Missouri. 
And in the following days, it was announced 
that Davis was battling a “severely sprained an-kle.”
His status for Saturday’s game against Georgia 
was supposedly in jeopardy. 
But in his mind, it never was. Jarrad Davis shows why he’s 'heart and soul' of Florida
Davis
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan, left, jumps high for a kill during Florida's 3-0 win over Ole Miss on Friday. The junior 
middle blocker has worked to improve her serving and back-row play this season.  
UF won in straight sets
SEE SIDEBAR,  PAGE 1614   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016
THREE IN A ROW
Melissa Smith / Alligator Staff
A pile of Georgia defenders tackle Florida running back Jordan Scarlett (25) during Saturday’s game. 
UGA held UF to 100 rushing yards, the Gators’ second-lowest total of the season.
Melissa Smith / Alligator Staff
Florida running back Jordan Scarlett (25) is tackled by a pair of Georgia defenders during Saturday’s game. Scarlett led the Gators with a game-high 93 rushing yards. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Luke Del Rio (14) throws to Antonio Callaway during Saturday’s game. Del Rio completed 15 of his 25 passes for 131 yards, one touchdown and one interception.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
C’yontai Lewis points to the crowd during Florida’s 24-10 win over Georgia on Saturday. It was UF’s third-straight win against UGA.
he was asked.  
He replied with a one-word answer: “Sure.”
Asked to elaborate, he added that he believes the 
“ingredients” are there on offense, defense and spe-cial teams to make a “heck of a run.”
With Tennessee losing to South Carolina on Satur-
day, the Gators are primed to at least have an oppor-tunity to make that run. UT’s loss means the Gators can lose one of their remaining conference games — Arkansas, South Carolina or LSU — and still make it to the SEC Championship. 
It’s clear, though, that the offense won’t get them 
there. McElwain has preached gradual improvement from the beginning of the season, but now, more than halfway in, it doesn’t seem to be happening. 
The defense, meanwhile, has continued to excel. In addition to ranking second in scoring defense, 
UF also ranks second in passing and total defense as well as ninth in rushing defense. “We put a lot of pressure on ourselves,” defensive 
lineman Khairi Clark said, “because us as a defense, 
we feel like we’re the best defense in the nation.”
However, Florida has yet to play against an above-
average offense. 
The Missouri Tigers, who rank No. 42 in the na-
tion in total offense, are the most elite squad Flori-da’s defenders have gone against, and they still have 
to play Florida State (No. 34) and — possibly — Ala-
bama (No. 8). 
With UF’s continued offensive struggles, those 
higher-powered offenses will be burdens the defense 
will have to overcome on its own. 
But McElwain believes — whether with help from 
the offense or not — his players will. 
“That’s the way they are in that locker room,” he 
said. “‘Coach, we’ll ﬁ  gure out a way to get it done and we’ll get it done.’ And that’s what I love about 
their mentality.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg. 1Clark: ‘... we feel like we’re the best defense in the nation.’It must be strange to ﬁ  eld these types of 
questions, especially after winning by two touchdowns in a rivalry game, af-
ter your defense suffocated yet another 
conference opponent, and after — just 
over halfway through the season — your team sits alone atop the SEC East.
But there Jim McElwain stood, after 
Florida’s 24-10 win over Georgia on Satur-day, being poked and prodded with pesky quips on his team’s performance. 
How did he feel about his quarterback’s 
inconsistent play? How does he feel that 
his defense is routinely forced to do every-
thing? How is it that this SEC East-leading team doesn’t really feel like an SEC East-leading team?
“Did we win?” McElwain deadpanned. 
“OK. Good. All right. Just wanna make sure.”
They did, and by double digits — the 
Gators’ second such win in a row. 
But just look at their opponents this sea-
son: Georgia, Missouri, Vanderbilt, Ten-nessee, North Texas, Kentucky, Massachu-setts. 
All unranked — except for then-No. 14 
Tennessee, their only loss — and all medio-cre. All wins against teams clearly out of the running for any semblance of meaning-ful postseason recognition, with combined records that now equal 21-28.
Who has Florida beaten? More importantly, who has it played? The Volunteers were undoubtedly UF’s 
most challenging opponent, but even they aren’t looking so menacing anymore, with three losses in the last three weeks and a 
defeat at the hands of lowly South Caro-
lina, the worst-scoring offense in the SEC.
So, yes, as McElwain so accurately stat-
ed, UF did win on Saturday, as it has most 
of the season. But it’s always the same, so-bering storyline: The defense carried them, the opponent had a weak offense, and UF’s offense embarked on a mission to not screw everything up.
And yet, in a weak Eastern Division, 
that will be good enough to win. That will be good enough to get Florida back to the SEC Championship.
“People pick this team apart quite a 
bit,” McElwain said. “Guys, this is a good football team.”
In some ways, it is. Its defense is clearly 
elite, with multiple NFL Draft picks and possibly a couple ﬁ  rst rounders.
But its offense clearly isn’t, not with the 
two quarterback options McElwain trusts to run it. Del Rio and Austin Appleby are serviceable, but never incredibly impres-sive.
So that’s why McElwain is forced to 
ﬁ  eld all those repetitive questions. Because these double-digit wins cloaked as conﬁ  -dence-building victories are really nothing more than expected outcomes, games the University of Florida is supposed to win.
The Gators haven’t been challenged by a top-10 caliber team this season. But they still think they can win the SEC.
“100 percent,” Del Rio said. “I believe it 
with every bone in my body.”
Even having played a relatively weak 
schedule, and with No. 1 Alabama likely waiting in the title game?
“I mean, if we don’t believe in ourselves, 
who will?” linebacker Alex Anzalone said.
Good question.Ian Cohen in the sports editor. You can 
contact him at icohen@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter at @icohenb.   Should we really believe the Florida Gators can win the SEC title? 
Melissa Smith / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain looks on during Florida’s 24-10 win over Georgia on Saturday in Jacksonville. After the game, McElwain joked when asked about UF’s poor offensive performance. “Did we win?” he said. “OK. Good. All right. Just wanna make sure. ”
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenbIT’S COHEN DOWN / OPINION
 HOW FLORIDA
RANKS NATIONALLY
Defense:• No. 2 in points per game (11.7)
• No. 9 in rushing yards per game (105.1)
• No. 2 in passing yards per game (134.3)
• No. 2 in total yards per game (239.4)
Offense:• T-No. 66 in points per game (29.4)
• No. 67 in rushing yards per game (170.14)
• No. 71 in passing yards per game (228.4)
• No. 75 in total yards per game (398.6)MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
RUN DATE DEADLINEIN HONOR OF OUR VETERANS,
THE ALLIGATOR WILL NOT BE
PUBLISHING ON:FRIDAY
NOVEMBER11TH
WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER 9TH
THURSDAY
NOVEMBER 10THMONDAY
NOVEMBER 14TH
TUESDAY
NOVEMBER 15TH
DISPLAY: 376-4482 
CLASSIFIEDS: 373-3463
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2016
“I came back to the University of 
Florida to play with my brothers and 
to win,” he said. 
“I didn’t come back to sit on the 
bench just because of an injury.”
Davis had an avalanche of motiva-
tion to play against the Bulldogs. 
He’s a senior. He’s from Georgia. He’s the team’s leading tackler 
and a vocal presence in the locker room.
He wanted to be out there. But coach Jim McElwain wasn’t as 
optimistic in the days leading up to the game. 
“He got beat up by a tackling 
dummy on one play (during prac-
tice),” he said. 
Cornerback Duke Dawson was 
equally skeptical. 
“The whole week he tried to prac-
tice,” the junior said. 
“But he really couldn’t.”
Then, on Friday night, Dawson said he spoke with Davis. 
“We had a great talk,” he said.“He said he was going to play.”And when he arrived at Jackson-
ville’s EverBank Field on Saturday 
afternoon, he kept his promise. 
“I just felt the energy in the sta-
dium and I knew I had to play,” Da-
vis said.
 “I knew I had to play.”
But how would the ankle hold up? 
Would he be the same player — the 
heart and soul?
His stat line answered that ques-
tion: A team-leading seven tackles with 2.5 of them for loss and a quar-terback hurry. 
The screams of pain from two 
weeks earlier were replaced by screams of triumph, especially late in the fourth quarter. Down by 14 with about 3 minutes 
left, Georgia was facing a fourth-and-3. If the Bulldogs converted, they had a chance. 
If not, the game was over. 
Quarterback Jacob Eason dropped 
back and found receiver Javon Wims 
just in time for Davis to blow him up like a landmine two yards behind the line of scrimmage. 
“I took a really good, educated 
guess,” Davis said. 
“And I guessed right.”The play — and the fact that he 
played at all — epitomized why McElwain calls Davis the heart and soul of the team.
“Those guys,” Davis said, “the 
time we put in this summer, the time 
we put in throughout this season. 
The energy, the blood, the sweat the tears we’ve shed. 
“What I’m about wouldn’t have 
showed up if I would have sat this game.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgSIDEBAR,  from pg. 13Davis had a team-leading seven tackles
The Associated Press
Jalen T abor, left, and Jarrad Davis celebrate during 
Florida's 40-14 win against Missouri on Oct. 15.
"I just felt the energy in the 
stadium and I knew I had to play. 
I knew I had to play.”
Jarrad Davis
Florida linebacker