THE FIVE STUDENT 
ORGANIZATIONS WILL 
OFFER VOTER GUIDES, 
PIZZA AND RIDES 
TO THE POLLS. 
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer 
Five student organizations are 
working together to get UF stu-
dents to the polls today. 
Black Student Union, Asian 
American Student Union, Hispanic 
Student Association, Pride Student 
Union and Women’s Student As-sociation, in collaboration with the Bob Graham Center Student Fel-
lows, are hosting an event at Pugh 
Hall today from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Along with shuttling students to the polls from Pugh, the event will feature speakers, voter guides, free 
pizza and prizes.
Ronit Dastidar, the external 
vice president for AASU, said the 
voter guides will show what poli-cies could affect several minority groups. “We really want people to see 
that there are issues that affect 
many populations,” the 20-year-old 
UF microbiology and cell science 
junior said. “We want students to keep that in mind when they go to the polls.”
He said that the shuttles will run 
every 30 minutes for students who are ready to vote. He hopes to take at least 40 students to the polls. 
Preston Jones, the treasurer of 
PSU, said the Bob Graham Cen-
ter offered to host the event, so it 
didn’t cost the involved organiza-
tions any money. 
“We felt that voting, especially 
in this election, is important for our 
community,” the 20-year-old politi-
cal science junior said. 
He said that while same-sex 
marriage has been legalized, there 
is still a lot of work to be done to 
promote equal rights. 
“Going out to vote is the only 
way to make your voice heard,” he 
said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 53 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016
Jordan leading soccer team in 
ﬁ  nal year
The senior is hoping to win Florida an NCAA 
championship, pg. 14
The Lonely Biscuits headed to Gainesville
The alternative rock band will perform at High Dive,  pg. 8
UF to host Fall BFA Dance Showcase
Thirteen choreographers will showcase their work, pg. 9Follow our election 2016 coverage
Read about the local state Senate candidates, pg. 3
 Student organizations band together to get students to vote
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
About three weeks after a woman was 
sexually assaulted walking home near the 
Duckpond neighborhood, Gainesville Po-
lice arrested a suspect Wednesday.
At about 2 a.m. on Oct. 9, Greg Delano 
McFarlane, 26, approached the woman 
near East University Avenue and North-
east First Street and asked to borrow her 
lighter, according to a statement issued by GPD. After returning the lighter, McFar-lane followed the woman to the 600 block of NE Second St., where he pointed a gun 
to her head and sexually assaulted her.
DNA evidence during the investigation 
linked McFarlane, who ran away before 
police could arrive, to the rape, accord-
ing to the news release. Investigators then 
obtained an arrest warrant, which was served Wednesday in an apartment com-plex in southeast Gainesville.
GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said the department has noticed an increase this year in sexual-assault-related crimes like molestation and assault, according 
to Alligator archives. Last year, there were 
nearly 80 cases of this type of crime. So far this year, there have been more than 100.
The investigation was 
a joint effort between GPD, the U.S. Marshal’s Service Florida Regional Fugitive Task Force and 
the Florida Department of 
Law Enforcement, GPD detective Matt Goeckel 
wrote in an email.
Police arrested McFarlane on a charge 
of sexual battery and took him to the Ala-chua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $1 million bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  GPD: Man arrested in connection 
with Duckpond sexual assault
McFarlane
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Ryan Mockabee, a 21-year-old UF behavioral and cognitive neuroscience senior, counts off people on 
an early-voting shuttle on Tuesday. With an hour and a half left to run, the shuttles, offered by the Bob Graham Center for Public Service, had already taken 91 people.
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN 
APPEARS TO HAVE DRAWN 
BUSINESS AWAY 
FROM OTHER BARS.
By Isabella Limonta
Alligator Contributing Writer
About a month after The Social at 
Midtown opened its doors across from UF, throngs of dehydrated students have lined up to experience the bar’s fresh-faced digs and abundant selection of al-cohol.
Among some of the more traditional 
decades-old bars that cohabit Midtown, The Social is the new kid on West Uni-versity Avenue. 
And since its Oct. 3 opening, its staff 
— and many students the bar caters to — believes it has drawn business away from its competition, although nearby bars re-fute that assertion.
“We’ve been getting a large push of 
people who want to experience us for the first time,” said T.J. Brown, the assistant general manager at The Social. He said thousands of people have visited the bar every weekend since it opened.
The three times that UF telecommu-
nication junior Stephanie Zajac has been to the bar, the 20-year-old has waited in “pretty insane lines” not seen at other bars during that time, she said. 
She said The Social’s sophisticated, 
contemporary atmosphere has appealed to a larger swath of college students who may be tired of Midtown’s iconic but mo-notonous offerings.
“Compared to other bars, The Social is 
a lot less ratchet and a lot more sophisti-cated and chill,” she said.
Danny Zeenberg, The Social’s general 
manager, said his bar’s stature compared to the competition has inevitably pushed the Midtown scales and given the bar a larger chunk of crowds.
The Social at Midtown has a capacity 
of about 1,000 people, while some neigh-boring bars hover around a 100-person cap.A month after opening, The 
Social has impacted MidtownCRIME
SEE SOCIAL,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  83° LOW  61°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘The Ocean and the Election’
What do next month’s elections 
mean for the sea? Find out in a 
free public lecture by ocean jour-nalist David Helvarg today from 1:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. in the Reitz 
Union, Room 3320. Helvarg is a 
long-time ocean journalist and 
author, whose books include “50 Ways to Save the Ocean,” “Saved 
by the Sea” and “The Golden 
Shore: California’s Love Affair with the Sea.” In his lecture “The Ocean and the Election,” Helvarg will share responses from presi-dential candidates and ideas for how citizens can make a differ-ence on behalf of oceans and coastal communities. Helvarg will also share the trauma and wonder he has experienced in, on and by the ocean, along with powerful imagery to remind us of all of the intimate ways our lives are linked to the sea. His talk will be followed by a book sale and signing.
GatorNights: Villains vs. Heroes
On Friday, GatorNights is bring-ing you a “super” good time with a Villains vs. Heroes night. Test your knowledge and outwit your friends at villain-and-hero-themed trivia. Outperform your peers with an inflatable jousting 
battle and bungee run challenge. 
Get your own hero or villain swag 
by creating your very own dog-
tag necklace and mask. There will also be an 8 p.m. and 10:45 
p.m. showing of “Suicide Squad.” 
GatorNights is always Friday and 
always free for UF students with 
their Gator 1 Cards at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current 
students to participate and are al-
lowed to bring a maximum of one 
guest to the event.
Free English classes
The Latina Women’s League 
is offering free English classes 
Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the Alachua County Library Millhopper Branch. Anyone look-
ing to improve his or her conver-
sational English can attend. For 
more information, visit latinawo-mensleague.org.
RUB Entertainment’s Rock Out at 
the ReitzJoin Reitz Union Board Entertainment today at 7:30 p.m. in Room G310 for the chance to team up with your friends and peers to create the band of your dreams. Take center stage and play “Rock Band” for fun with your fellow UF students.
10th Annual Newberry Fall 
Festival 
On Saturday from 9 a.m. to 4 
p.m., downtown Newberry will host a fall festival. It will take 
place along Seaboard Drive just 
off Newberry Road. Enjoy ven-
dors, food and entertainment for 
the kids.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 53
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
Ten years 
removed  
from state 
politics, Dem-ocrat Rod 
Smith is run-
ning to repre-sent District 8 in the Florida Senate.
Smith is facing off against 
Keith Perry to represent all of Alachua County and Putnam County, as well as a chunk of 
Marion County.
A graduate from UF’s Levin 
College of Law, Smith said he 
considers educational reform, prison reform and marijuana le-galization among his top priori-ties. He is also an ardent critic of legalizing the concealed carry of guns on campus.
Drawing from his experi-
ences as a state attorney, during which time he helped prosecute mass murderer Danny Rolling, Smith said many of the prob-lems with the overcrowding of jails stem from a flawed educa-tion system. He said the state should invest more in education 
and local colleges as a way to 
ensure students attain good jobs once they graduate.
As the state attorney, Smith 
helped implement Project Pay-
back, a program that lets ju-
venile offenders pay back any owed restitution and learn vari-ous job skills. He said it is in-valuable to help prisoners turn their lives around after serving time rather than enabling them to return to lives of crime.
“In my life, I’ve convicted 
people truly guilty of bad things, but most people aren’t like that,” he said. “They’ve just made bad decisions.”
Regarding marijuana legal-
ization, Smith said politicians opposed to allowing doctors to prescribe the drug to patients are simply putting their own 
agendas over the need for treat-
ments.
“We have doctors who pre-
scribe all sorts of dangerous drugs,” he said. “If we can trust them to do that, then we can trust them to prescribe mari-juana.”
After more than 30 years in 
law and politics, Smith said he is more capable than Perry to help North Central Florida into the future.
“In order to make that hap-
pen, we need to be able to step across the aisle,” he said.THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Catherine Dickson 
Alligator Staff Writer 
A UF alumnus running for U.S. Congress met 
with UF students Wednesday to encourage them to vote.
Democratic candidate Ken McGurn, who is run-
ning to be a U.S. representative for District 3, asked 
students if they had voted early in the upcoming 
election and told them about his own platform at the Reitz Union. He said students should take the opportunity to vote — and vote early — because 
Election Day can be unpredictable for students. 
“I would appreciate their vote, but I really just 
want them to vote,” he said.
McGurn said his main goals are to make posi-
tive changes for military veterans, utilize solar en-
ergy and make the first two years of college free for students.
McGurn said despite his political affiliation, he 
works alongside other parties. His campaign in-tern, Natalie Cristobal, is a registered Republican but cast her ballot for McGurn.
The UF business sophomore said she was wor-
ried about how her values would match up with his policies, but after working on the campaign, she said McGurn was the candidate she wanted to vote for. 
Cristobal said because the election is a week 
away, most of the hard work is done. But she has made more than eight hours worth of phone calls this week.
“Now you just have to sit back and wait,” the 
19-year-old said.Congressional 
candidate urges 
students to vote By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
Repub-
lican Keith 
Perry, a lo-cal business owner and 
Gainesville 
native, is running  against  Democrat  
Rod Smith to become the Dis-trict 8 Florida state senator.
Perry served as a state rep-
resentative for the past six 
years. Lowering taxes for small 
businesses, addressing inef-fective government programs and implementing health care reform are key aspects of his platform.
Perry, the founding owner 
of Perry Roofing Contrac-tors, has been a local business 
owner for more than 40 years. 
He said rising taxes and health care costs sparked by provi-sions in the Affordable Care Act remain his highest concern. 
He said it is not the federal 
government’s job to regulate health care and that the Afford-able Care Act has done more 
harm than good.
Unlike Smith, Perry said he doesn’t believe government 
programs are an effective way to fix problems on a local lev-
el. Providing public housing 
doesn’t address the rising costs of living, and increased insur-ance requirements for employ-ers hurt small businesses.
As a local who graduated 
from Buchholz High School, Perry said he feels himself to be more qualified than Smith to 
address the concerns of his fel-
low residents.
“Problems don’t get solved 
with government programs,” Perry said. “It starts with peo-ple.”
Although the two candi-
dates agreed on a few topics at a debate held in the Reitz 
Union at UF on Oct. 25 — in-
cluding opposition to Amend-ment 1 concerning solar power subsidies and approval for the legalization of medical mari-juana — they don’t agree on much else. The two sparred about concealed carry of guns on university campuses, and 
Smith alleged Perry backed a 
fracking bill during his time as a Florida representative, which he denied.
“I’d encourage you not to 
listen to sound bites,” Perry said. “Do your research.”Keith Perry Rod Smith
Perry
 Smith
GET TO KNOW THE CANDIDATES: STATE SENATORS4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016
By RJ Sonbeek
Alligator Contributing Writer 
An expert on the Black Panther movement 
will discuss police brutality today as she 
draws connections between the 1960s and the present.
Kathleen Cleaver, a law professor at Em-
ory University, started protesting for racial equality in Alabama in the 1950s with her parents. After the Black Panther Party formed in the 1960s, advocating for black national-
ism, Cleaver joined, said Sharon Austin, the 
director of UF’s African American Studies program.
At 6 p.m., she’ll discuss her activism as a 
member of the Black Panthers and the Stu-dent Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, a national collegiate organization that promotes empowerment and racial equality, Austin 
said. The talk will last about 45 minutes and 
be held in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom.
UF’s African Americans Studies program wanted to host Cleaver in conjunction with the 50th anniversary of the Black Panther Party’s formation, Austin said.
She said some have a negative perception 
of the party, but the department wanted to bring an expert to tell students about it fol-lowing the release of “The Black Panthers: Vanguard of the Revolution,” a PBS docu-mentary on the rise of the party and its im-pact on American culture, which she said renewed interest. 
“People are trying to learn the truth about 
the Panthers because there’s so much misin-formation about them,” Austin said.
William Walker, a UF African-American 
studies senior, will introduce Cleaver tonight.
Walker said he hopes that by having a 
member of the Black Panthers come and speak at UF, students will learn more about past movements for racial equality.
“We need to familiarize ourselves with the 
history so we can put our best foot forward for the future,” the 22-year-old said.  Black Panther expert to speak
“Part of our brand is to not be sardined 
here,” said Brown, The Social’s assistant 
general manager.
“We are having to hold the doors ev-
ery night for the most part to make sure 
we are not overcrowded and everyone 
has their own space.”
Two long-standing neighbors disagree.At The Swamp Restaurant, a popular 
Midtown centerpiece since 1994, director 
of operations Ryan Prodesky said turnout 
has been similar to other years due to its 
location directly across from campus.
“We haven’t seen a big change one 
way or the other in the Midtown area,” 
he said, adding that new bars are always 
popping up. 
“This area has always been a busy 
area in the community.”At Copper Monkey, another long-
standing Midtown bar, business has ac-
tually increased in the past month, said general manager Averie Johnson.
“It could be overflow — or the fact 
that we have been here for 38 years,” he said.
Matt Tsang, a 19-year-old UF mechani-
cal engineering sophomore, said The So-cial is the preferred hangout spot for his group of friends.
“More people are like, ‘Hey, let’s go 
to The Social,’ than (for) any other bar,” 
he said.
Zajac said The Social is changing Mid-
town’s bar-hopping dynamic and posi-
tioning itself as the scene’s go-to spot.
“There is definitely a difference,” she 
said. “I don’t know if this will be perma-nent or not, but I think it will change for a while.”SOCIAL,  from pg. 1Other restaurants disagreeTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
THE CANDY WILL BE SENT TO 
MILITARY SERVICE MEMBERS.
By Mercedes Leguizamon 
and Abby Stafford
Alligator Contributing Writers
After a night of trick-or-treating, 7-year-old 
Daniel Muchnick gave all of his candy to a dentist 
Wednesday.
“I didn’t eat any of it,” he said, standing in the 
ofﬁ  ces of Lozano Dental Care, one of many lo-cal dental ofﬁ  ces asking children to donate their 
candy at $1 a pound.
The candy — unbeknownst to Muchnick, de-
spite three years of participating — will then be 
shipped via care package to active military service 
members from Alachua County, sparing the kids 
from cavities in the process, owner Frank Lozano 
said.
The ofﬁ  ce has participated in the buy back for 
the past eight years after Lozano got the idea from a dentist in Madison, Wisconsin. He ﬁ  gured do-nating sweets through the Alachua County Mili-tary Support Group was a worthwhile cause.
“I thought we should beneﬁ  t people in Alachua 
County,” he said. “(The support group was) more than happy to have us donate to their group.”
Lozano, 37, said his practice isn’t the only 
dentistry participating in this event in Gainesville. Others include Giggles and Grins Pediatric Den-tistry and Progressive Orthodontists, which is owned by Lozano’s sister.
At Kids Only Dental Place, located at Haile 
Plantation, seven kids had donated 13 pounds of candy as of Tuesday afternoon, said Debbie Barry, a receptionist at the dental ofﬁ  ce.
Ofﬁ  ce manager Stacey Givens said the two Kids 
Only Dental Place locations average between 200 to 400 pounds of candy each Halloween season.
“They’re excited to do the right thing and earn 
some money,” Barry said. “They’re helping save their own teeth and helping the troops. It’s very rewarding to see.”  Local dentists buy back kids’ candy
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A WCJB-TV20 news reporter was ar-
rested Tuesday after forcing a woman 
into sex, Gainesville Police said.
At about 1 a.m. Tuesday, 23-year-old 
Spencer Harris Allen was at a Gainesville 
apartment with the woman, described as 
an acquaintance, and went into a bed-room to talk, according to the report. At some point, Allen closed and locked the door and forced the woman into sexual acts.
During the incident, the woman told 
Allen no and tried to free herself from him, according to the report. When she 
was able to get away, she left the room 
in tears and asked another person at the apartment to make Al-len leave.
Allen has since 
been suspended from WCJB-TV20, an ABC afﬁ  liate station in Gainesville, said Kev-in Fries, the news di-rector. Fries declined 
to say whether Allen was suspended without pay.
Police arrested Allen on a charge of 
sexual battery and took him to the Ala-chua County Jail, where he was released Wednesday on a $150,000 bond.
As of press time, Allen could not be 
reached for comment.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  GPD: Local TV reporter 
sexually battered woman
Allen
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
The NFL struggles to deal with domestic violence
The NFL has a problem on its hands.
It’s not the players who have made 
headlines over the last few months by 
protesting the national anthem or the ever-present threat of concussions and 
head trauma that permeates the game.  
No, America’s most popular sport has been 
troublingly beset by something else over the last few years, and it’s already reared its ugly head this season: domestic violence.
The latest instance involves Josh Brown, 
a kicker for the New York Giants. His case is unsettling and circuitous, extending back to last year. In May 2015, he was arrested on suspicion of fourth-degree 
domestic violence charge against his then-wife, Molly.
But the charges were dropped five days later. She 
didn’t want to continue with the police investigation. 
As a result, there were no immediate punitive measures handed down by the league or the organization. Brown played in all 16 games last season.
This past August, roughly 15 months after his initial 
arrest, Brown was suspended for one game by the NFL for a violation of the league’s personal-conduct policy stem-
ming from his arrest. While speaking with reporters the 
day after this announcement, Brown referred to the inci-dent as “just a moment.”
That was a lie.Later that same day, an incident report became public 
that showed Molly Brown told police back in May 2015 that her husband had been physically abusive towards her more than 20 times, even while she was pregnant with their daughter. The public and the media didn’t 
know about this. But the Giants did, along with the NFL.
Despite this evidence, they stood firm. Brown was not 
going to be cut. A paltry one-game ban was all he would 
face. The media attention surrounding the story slowly dissipated as the season began and games were played.
But on Oct. 19, new damning information came to light 
in the form of 165 pages of police documents that con-tained written proof of Brown admitting to abusing his wife. The details were appalling, with Brown even stating at one point, “I viewed myself as God basically and she was my slave.” The Gi-ants have since released him, finally.
Unfortunately, Josh Brown is just the latest 
in a seemingly growing list of mishandled do-mestic violence cases by the NFL and Commis-sioner Roger Goodell. The Ray Rice saga two years ago notably comes to mind, as does Greg Hardy’s case.
Rice was caught on tape punching his then-
fiancee in an elevator. He was initially suspend-
ed for two games before public pressure forced Goodell to lengthen it. Hardy was accused of threatening his ex-
girlfriend and throwing her on a bed full of loaded assault 
rifles.
He was banned for 10 games before a reduction to 
four. And now we have Brown, whose abuse of his wife garnered him the equivalent of a one-week vacation in the eyes of the league.
With all of these cases, the NFL has had the opportu-
nity to show that any kind of violence toward women will not be tolerated. It’s the most popular sports league in the 
country, with revenue expected to exceed $13 billion this 
year. It wields considerable societal influence and has the financial muscle to back it up. Instead, it likes to focus on more trivial matters.
The NFL is swift to enact punishment on players who 
fall out of line on the field. There are fines for players who celebrate excessively or don’t wear league-regulated cleats. In 2015, New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady was suspended four games for allegedly deflating 
footballs during halftime of a game. That’s four times lon-
ger than Brown’s ban. Apparently, that’s more important.
Goodell frequently says these measures are in place to 
preserve the integrity of the game and “protect the shield” of the league. Hey, Roger, why don’t you start protecting women first? 
Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His column appears 
on Thursdays.In the riptides  
of ranch
While we do live in an age of nostalgia, dear reader, 
there are some points of our childhoods that are best left untouched. If you’re a grown man and you bring a glove to a baseball game, we need to talk. If you put ketchup on your eggs, perhaps it would be best not 
to eat eggs in the first place. Most notably, if you dip your pizza into ranch dressing, please go find a hole somewhere on campus — there are plenty with the construction going on — and sit in it until you are ready to recognize the error of your ways.
We get it. There is something quintessentially American about 
ranch dressing. Moreover, as a salad dressing, it has its place. It’s perfectly reasonable to drown heaps of lettuce in the stuff. It adds a necessary flavor to otherwise tasteless leaves. If you like dipping carrots, tomatoes or celery into ranch dressing, that’s cool, too. As far as we’re concerned, you’re still dipping vegeta-bles. However, unlike Congress, we believe pizza is not, in fact, a vegetable. Therefore, it has no business being dipped in ranch dressing.
We’re willing to wager that most of you defending ranch and 
most of you attacking it can’t even identify what’s exactly in ranch dressing. Well, we Googled it for you. Ranch dressing is made of buttermilk, garlic, salt, onion and a variety of herbs and spices. That being said, it’s perfectly rational to make bland foods taste less bland by smothering ranch on them. But those of you dipping greasy and salty French fries in what is really just fat are missing the point. 
If you’re dipping pizza in ranch, thereby taking a food product 
that is already rich and flavorful and dipping it in something that masks that, you’ve again missed the point. If you need ranch to make the flavors of a pizza pop, you’re probably eating s--- pizza like Papa John’s. 
Think about it: When you order Pizza Hut, Papa John’s or 
Domino’s, you can pay for sides of ranch dressing to come with your pizza. That’s because those places know they provide utility pizza. But when you go to Leonardo’s, The Italian Gator or Satch-el’s, they take for granted that you don’t want ranch. You know why? Because they know they provide that good good you want.
Imagine yourself at a nice steakhouse. The ambiance is spec-
tacular: The candles are burning low, the tablecloth is silky smooth and your significant other looks ravishing. You order, and eventually, your server brings out the most perfect cut of steak imaginable. Would you symbolically s--- on this steak by putting ketchup on it? No, this isn’t a greasy hamburger made by an equally greasy teenager in a dimly lit McDonald’s. This is a quality piece of meat that some master chef spent years perfect-ing. Hopefully, you wouldn’t do the same thing in terms of pizza. 
Ideally, good pizza stands on its own. If you want to put ketch-
up on that McDonald’s burger and dip your Papa John’s pizza in some ranch, go for it. We can meet you halfway there. But don’t you dare insult the craft of quality pizza-making at places like Big Lou’s by dipping it in a buttermilk-and-salt concoction.
And no, dear reader, this isn’t food snobbery. Don’t reduce 
this issue to something deceptively simple like “People are al-lowed to like what they like.” If we start seeing #FreeTheTaste-buds crap on Twitter, we’re going to flip. This is a question of respect and recognition. If your pizza tastes like the cardboard it comes in, by all means, drown the sucker in dressing. But please don’t insult masters of their pizza crafts by muting flavors in the riptides of ranch.THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Brian Lee
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
IN HONOR OF OUR VETERANS,
THE ALLIGATOR WILL NOT BE
PUBLISHING ON:FRIDAY
NOVEMBER11TH
DISPLAY: 376-4482 
CLASSIFIEDS: 373-3463RUN DATE DEADLINE
WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER 9TH
THURSDAY
NOVEMBER 10THMONDAY
NOVEMBER 14TH
TUESDAY
NOVEMBER 15TH
My high-school sex education was 
brief and to the point. “Don’t have sex, or you will suffer severe psy-chological and physical trauma” was the main message, hammered 
to the point with vivid pictures of STDs and a video where some edgy teen discussed his misadventures with sex in very forced slang dialogue. The add-on point was “If you are being physically abused by your partner, here’s a hotline you can call.”
A big part of the second message was how 
it is ineffective to try to change your partner and that once your partner gets violent and 
controlling, his behavior will continue. Thus, 
it is up to you to get out of the situation. This was told with a badly acted video in which a hotline phone number ﬂ  ashed brieﬂ  y across the screen at the end. And let’s be real, the videos focused exclusively on heterosexual situations with male abusers.
That was the extent of the discussion 
about relationships in my high school. I 
don’t know if the person who designed 
the curriculum assumed our parents would have healthy heart-to-heart discussions with us about the foundations of an effective, healthy relationship — or if they even had those heart-to-hearts with their own children. If that was the case, then maybe the brief, shallow dis-cussions of relationships in school would have been enough. 
But the fact is, no one re-
ally ever tells us what’s OK and what’s not OK. We can use our own judgement, of course: bits and pieces of a judgment system we put together from our peers, our family values, the media and other sources. In the end, though, a lot of heavy, serious issues that should be 
discussed by parents or schools are left un-
touched.
Where, for instance, is the message that 
it’s not OK to abuse your partner? Sure, we get numbers to call if we are being physically abused, but where is the message of “You cannot be violent toward your partner”? It may seem like common sense, but clearly not everyone gets it. 
Where was the message that sometimes 
the abuser is female, and that’s still just as wrong? Or that emotional abuse is also a problem and a reason to leave a relationship? Or that controlling behavior from your part-ner is something that shouldn’t be put up with? Or that if your part-ner threatens to commit suicide because you don’t answer their texts on time, that’s not OK? Or 
that when you break up with your 
partner, it’s not OK to continually send them messages and force them to talk to you, especially if they explicitly tell you not to?
I have heard so many of my 
friends go through situations like these, and for most of us (at least, 
I’d hope it was the most of us), it is com-
mon sense not to harass your partner, not 
to be controlling and not to threaten suicide. But there are still those people who think it’s normal to belittle their partners and control what they wear, when they go out and who they talk to. They threaten to harm them-selves when their partners don’t behave ac-cordingly — everyone I know has a story of a partner who has done this to them, or at 
least a story of a friend who has been affect-
ed by such a partner.
We need to discuss what healthy, func-
tional relationships are with children from the moment they start dating, and maybe even before. Making the assumption that they will get that on their own, from their home environment or from the media is wrong. Sex ed shouldn’t just be about what to do in the case of physical abuse, and it 
shouldn’t embody the famous Mean Girls 
quote, “Don’t have sex, you will get preg-nant and die.” It should focus on healthy relationships, what behavior is acceptable and what isn’t and how to handle bad situ-ations.
I know there will always be bad people 
out there and there will always be bad rela-tionship situations, but more people should 
be empowered with the resources to realize 
they are in bad situations — and that they can do something about those situations. The as-sumption that emotional abuse, controlling behavior or suicide threats from your part-ner is normal should be broken, dismantled and destroyed. No one deserves that kind of behavior in a relationship, and everyone should have the ability and support to realize 
that, do something about it and eventually 
ﬁ  nd and build a healthy relationship.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and 
computer science senior. Her columns appear on Thursdays.
What high-school sex ed really needs to add: a discussion about consentColumn
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
TV review: ‘AHS: Roanoke’ 
The show is back for its sixth season, pg. 10The Wooly to host second Maker Faire
It will be held Saturday and Sunday, pg. 9THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer 
The Lonely Biscuits will play at 
High Dive tonight as part of their 
Midwest & Beyond tour. 
The alternative rock band, made 
up of Grady Wenrich on vocals and 
guitar, Sam Gidley on drums and 
Nick Byrd on bass, was formed at Belmont University in Nashville, Tennessee. Gidley and Wenrich were randomly paired as roommates in a university residence hall, and Byrd lived on the same ﬂ  oor.  
Originally they called themselves 
“Gravy and the Biscuits,” but differ-
ent managers reached out to them 
saying they would most likely not be able to own that name. 
The band set out trying to think 
of a name and ﬁ  nally settled on The Lonely Biscuits, named after a song the group already wrote, Byrd said.
The band’s commitment to mak-
ing music became more serious as the group spent more time making songs, Wenrich said. He said they started by posting a few songs on-line, and as those songs caught on, the band’s fanbase grew. 
The band recently played a Hal-
loween show in Nashville. The band members said while playing 
in Nashville is inspiring, they pre-
fer their hometown shows in North Carolina, New Jersey and Nebraska, respectively. 
“It’s always cool, and it makes 
you want to be better, because there’s so many other good bands,” Wenrich said, “but Nashville shows aren’t as, I guess, wild, as you could 
say as our hometowns.”
Thursday will be the third time 
the band has played in Gainesville. 
Wenrich said they went into their ﬁ  rst show without having played or promoted themselves in Florida. He said they didn’t know what to expect but found a really responsive and energetic crowd. 
“It’s always nice when you play a 
random town you’ve never been to, 
and kids show up, and they know 
the words,” Wenrich said. This time around, they are hoping for the same, if not better, reception.
Wenrich said the band likes a lot 
of things about Gainesville. He said Arcade Bar on East University Av-enue is one of the group’s favorite 
places because of their members’ 
shared love of pinball. Pinball, like vinyl, he said, is making a come-back. It’s old-school and has its own culture.
He said Gidley, the drummer, is 
probably the band member most into the pinball culture. He has an Instagram account called Pinball-
Tour and watches pinball videos. 
The band has just ﬁ  nished re-
cording its ﬁ  rst full-length record, 
which will come out in March. The band members said they are excited for fans to hear what they’ve been 
devoting all of their energy to.
Growing up, the group played 
music by themselves and in bands, 
Wenrich said. He said he didn’t know if he always wanted to be in the music business, but he knew that’s what he was passionate about. 
“What I wanted to wake up and 
do everyday was just work on our 
music or other people’s music,” he 
said.
Doors will open at 8 p.m. for the 
9 p.m. show. Tickets can be pur-chased in advance for $8 at ticketﬂ  y.com or for $10 at the door.Alternative rock band The Lonely Biscuits to hit High Dive
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Lonely Biscuits, which formed when its three members lived in the same dorm at Belmont 
University, is playing High Dive today at 9 p.m. Doors open at 8 p.m., and tickets are $10.
By Rebecca Rubin
Avenue Writer
A local designer is using her 
hand-sewn fashion collection to raise 
awareness for victims of sexual ex-ploitation.
Carla Coultas, a clothing designer 
and the founder of Fashion for Free-dom, is holding the fourth annual Fashion for Freedom runway event, which will take place at Loosey’s in downtown Gainesville on Friday at 9 p.m. The event is for those 18 and older.
Models from the community will be showcasing Coultas’ hand-made outﬁ  ts and clothing from Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique. Gainesville natives Shawn Manley and Estelle Miller will perform live music. 
All of the proceeds from the $7 en-
try fee will go to Created Gainesville, a local organization that provides support for victims of sexual slavery.
 In past years, Coultas has given 
the proceeds to Project Rescue, an organization that works in East India. 
“I’m just really excited to be 
working with an organization that’s actually here in Gainesville because each year I send a check, and I am not able to hear back from them how the money exactly is used,” Coultas said.  
Coultas said she holds the event 
to show the community what they can be doing here to help victims. 
“Sexual slavery, it’s not talked 
about as much as a lot of other causes in America, and I think a lot of U.S. Americans don’t see it as a problem here at home,” she said. 
Gators Against Human Trafﬁ  ck-
ing is working with Coultas to pro-mote and put on the event. 
“It’s an amazing idea to have a fashion show in a bar downtown where we can get information across in a more relaxed environment,” said Ana Oliveira-Beuses, a 25-year-old UF psychology senior and president of the UF organization. 
This year, Coultas said she, along 
with the help of GAHT, has been spending time on campus and down-town advertising for the show on foot rather than asking businesses for do-nations. 
Coultas said she hopes this will 
bring in a larger student crowd. 
These events allow activists to be 
a voice for those who have been si-lenced, Oliveira-Beuses said. 
“Women are the biggest tar-
get and consumers of fashion, so it’s only fair that this industry help those women that cannot help them-selves,” Oliveira-Beuses said. 
Coultas said she hopes to grow 
the event in the future by adding more designers to the show.    
“This has always been a cause 
that has been close to my heart since I was a teenager,” Coultas said. “So I was just really excited to be able to do something more than just donat-ing small amounts that I can on my own.”
Designer holds fashion show for sex-slavery awareness
LOCALCourtesy to the Alligator
The alternative rock band is playing its third Gainesville 
show tonight, having previously opened for Moon T axi.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Studen/t.end Livin/g.end Guid/e.end
Advertise in The Alligator’s Student Living Guide, which 
publishes on the same day as UF’s off-campus housing fair. Quarter page ads and larger will receive free map spotting!
Contac/t.end Your Sale/s.end Rep352-376-4482
Deadlin/e.end 11-14
Ru/n.end Dat/e.end 11-18By Audrey Alonso
Avenue Writer
UF’s School of Theatre and 
Dance will host its annual Fall 
BFA Dance Showcase, opening 
Wednesday at 7 p.m. under the 
theme “Mind Your Step.”
The dances choreographed in 
the showcase are meant to por-
tray mindfulness and will display 
the work of this year’s senior class. The show will portray is-sues that include trauma, self-image and relationships.
Ric Rose, the coordinator of 
the showcase, said this year’s showcase is the BFA seniors’ cap-stone project. Rose mentored the 
13 choreographers as the project 
went along, and they worked to “creatively to produce a concert.” They decided as a group on this year’s theme. Each choreographer 
conducted his or her choice of re-
search to produce the theme.
Not only are students perform-
ing, but a few staff members will 
be as well. Isa Garcia-Rose, Trent D. Williams, Jr. and Elizabeth 
Johnson are all scheduled to per-form in the showcase this year. 
Rose said the audience is “see-
ing a diversity of choreographed works building together to reveal creativity and originality.”
Preparation for the showcase 
started about six weeks ago, with two rehearsals a week for each program. The showcase is split into two pieces: Program A and 
Program B. Alexander Murphy, 
a UF dance junior, will perform in both programs, which means that he has rehearsed four times 
a week to prepare for the show-
case.
The dances that are prepared 
include modern, hip-hop and bal-let. Murphy will perform modern 
dance in the showcase with vari-
ous other dancers. Modern dance is a “breakaway from ballet,” he said. “It involves more ﬂ  oor 
movement and is less technique 
oriented.”
Murphy also described the 
ﬂ  exibility of music used in mod-ern dance performances.
“Any genre can be used,” he 
said. “The range can be from na-
ture sounds to no sound at all.”
The dances are centered on 
one message only: Mind Your 
Step. This message can be inter-
preted in many ways. For Mur-
phy, he interpreted it as minding what people say.
“Especially in this past 2015-
2016 year, there have been a lot 
of problems that arise from what 
people say and how what people say is interpreted,” he said. “The clear message here is to mind 
what you say whether it’s cultur-
al, social or behavioral.
The showcase offers an op-
portunity to see different styles of dance and for students to be ex-
posed to things they are not used 
to seeing.
“It’s two hours to escape the 
reality of school and enjoy what 
art has to offer,” Murphy said.
Tickets for the show are $9 
and are available through the UF 
box ofﬁ  ce.  UF hosts Fall BFA Dance Showcase 
DANCE
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
This Saturday and Sunday from noon to 4 
p.m. each day, The Wooly will host its second 
Maker Faire. This fair will transform the venue into a market of local vendors selling hand-made, vintage and general niche items. The 
event will also feature local artists showcasing 
their work, with admission free and open to the public.
The ﬁ  rst Maker Faire was held in spring and 
had a huge turnout. The family-friendly event gave Gainesville residents a way to experience the town’s culture and fuel the local economy by supporting Gainesville-based small busi-nesses. 
“I deﬁ  nitely plan on checking out the Maker 
Faire this weekend,” Jake Granger, a 20-year-old UF telecommunication junior, said. “I bought some really cool plants for my garden the last time I went.”
The event offers a wide variety of products 
from handmade jewelry and clothing to house-wares, ceramics, plants and even pets. Though there will be no food trucks or catering involved 
with the Maker Faire, The Wooly will be offer-
ing drink specials on weekend favorites like sangria and mimosas. 
“Unfortunately, catered food is not a part of 
the Maker Faire this time around,” venue man-ager Audrey Dingeman said, “but maybe down the road as we grow, that will change.” 
Dingeman said she plans to have a Maker 
Faire occur once in the fall and once in the spring 
every year. If this weekend’s event proves suc-
cessful, then that plan will be put into effect. Maybe The Wooly’s Maker Faire will follow in the footsteps of downtown Gainesville’s weekly farmers markets on Wednesdays, becoming a staple in Gainesville’s culture. 
“I am always looking for something to do 
downtown in the afternoon,” Granger said. “I hope this season’s Maker Faire is as good as 
the last one.”Maker Faire comes to The Wooly
LOCAL
Courtesy to the Alligator 
The Wooly will host its second Maker Faire 
this weekend from noon to 4 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. The event is free to attend. 
10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Warning: There are spoilers 
ahead!
Diehard fans of Ryan Murphy 
and Brad Falchuk’s “American Hor-
ror Story” were no doubt teeming 
with excitement by season six’s air 
date.  
Yet what met viewers on the pre-
miere Sept. 14 was far from what they may have expected. This year, AHS traded in its usual grandiose scenes of blood, gore and sex for something much different. The ﬁ  rst scene of the series was Lily Rabe, 
hair and makeup done, staring into 
the camera with a soft smile on her face. The name “Shelby” lit up in the corner, beginning the season’s docu-mentary-style format. 
What followed for the next ﬁ  ve 
episodes were alternating scenes of interviews and dramatic reenact-ments containing both familiar AHS faces and newcomers.
This new season of AHS outlines 
the story of three major characters’ experiences on a property in North Carolina.  This property, which they later discover belongs to the “lost” 
colony of Roanoke, barely lets them 
out alive. The documentary of the series, “My Roanoke Nightmare,” ends after episode ﬁ  ve. 
Episode six brings viewers back 
to the real world, where the creator of the documentary decides to bring the actors playing Matt, Lee and Shelby back together under one roof for a second installment of the show, “Return to Roanoke: Three Days in 
Hell.” Chaos ensues, and with three 
episodes yet to air, the fate of many of the characters still hangs in the balance. 
The risk that the AHS creators 
took in creating a season like this was massive, but it paid off tremen-dously. The storyline is admittedly hard to follow, especially when the 
dynamic of “Roanoke” completely 
shifts in episode six. However, pay-ing careful attention to each scene reveals character development un-like anything television has ever seen before. 
This is most evident in The 
Butcher, played by the ﬁ  ctitious Agnes Winstead (played by real-life actress Kathy Bates). As revealed in the series, The Butcher sold her soul 
to a witch after the Roanoke colony 
left her for dead. She returned, mur-dered the men who left her (with a meat cleaver, no less) and resumed control of the Roanoke colony. Her spirit remains on the property. She is a cold, resolute and ruthless charac-ter, and the pressure of playing her wears on Winstead. 
Episodes six and seven explore 
how The Butcher slowly but surely takes over Winstead’s life, a process that consumes her. This is reminis-cent of real-life actors and their char-acters such as Heath Ledger and The Joker. 
Beyond that, the overall theme of “Roanoke” is different from any-thing AHS has attempted to do in the past. Long gone are the scenes of 
deformed circus performers dancing 
onstage or naked vampires bathing in blood-soaked beds. This season falls back to a more reserved take on horror: Ghosts, creaky doors and things that go bump in the night are the most common. 
This less-is-more approach is 
scarier because it hits much closer to 
home than Nazi doctors or Voodoo 
witches do. “Roanoke” is the type of season that makes you check under your bed and leave a nightlight on before you go to sleep. This season is downright terrifying, and it’s the best installment of “American Hor-ror Story” yet.
TV review: ‘American Horror Story: Roanoke’ brings twists
By Daniela Arias
Avenue Writer
Indie-folk musician and UF graduate 
Nicholas Roberts will return to his roots this 
weekend with a show at The Bull, located at 
18 SW First Ave., on Saturday. 
Following his graduation from UF, Rob-
erts moved to Nashville, Tennessee, with a 
band. After the band broke up, he returned to Florida, where he worked on his solo de-but LP, “The Rest of Our Lives,” in Orlando. 
The time Roberts spent writing and re-
cording his album in his studio apartment, at the public library and in coffee shops was a period of self-discovery and ﬁ  nding his style 
as a solo artist. He said he went through the 
process of ﬁ  nding his voice outside of the band. 
Roberts said he likes the sound of bands 
and that he’s able to do multiple vocals and 
play different guitars. But being a solo art-
ist has allowed him to try new sounds more freely, and it has made traveling easier, he said. The decision-making process in a band is a lot slower with voting and ﬁ  guring out things as a team.
He goes onstage accompanied only by 
his acoustic guitar, which he started playing 
12 years ago when he learned on an electric 
guitar. 
“I played heavy metal ﬁ  rst,” Roberts said. Considering the slow, melodic style of his 
new songs, this might come as a surprise to 
his fans. 
He said the change in music style came 
about six years ago, when he started listening 
to instrumental rock bands like Explosions in 
the Sky. His music was also inﬂ  uenced by 
the band Bon Iver.
“Back in 2009, they put out a really folkie, 
intimate record that affected my music,” he said of Bon Iver.
Roberts said he enjoys coming back to 
visit Gainesville, especially for the town’s food and environment. Some years ago, when he was still a student at UF, he played 
at an open mic at The Bull, and now he re-
turns to play a proper show as a solo artist. The show begins at 9:30 p.m. By Cindy Lu
Avenue Writer 
For the past two years, Flat Land has 
participated in UF’s Homecoming Parade, performing atop a trailer its members con-
structed while being pulled down Univer-
sity Avenue by a friend on a bicycle.
Flat Land, a local Gainesville band, con-
sists of Fae Nageon de Lestang on violin and vocals, Grant McLeod on drums, Ian McLeod on percussion and keys, Christo-
pher Storey on guitar and Brandon Miller 
on bass. All members except Miller are UF alumni. 
The band, which performed at the 
Okeechobee Music Festival in the spring, released its ﬁ  rst self-produced album, “Ar-row to the Sun,” in July. 
To support the cost of creating the al-
bum, Flat Land started a 30-day Kickstarter 
in which fans donated to fund the group’s 
debut album. The band raised $9,074 by the end of the fundraiser. 
“Gainesville is a really tightknit com-munity, and we feel really lucky,” Nageon de Lestang said. “Whenever we’ve done something that works out, it’s usually be-cause we’ve had the support of our com-
munity behind us.”
To thank fans for their contributions, 
Flat Land is offering a free performance 
Friday night in downtown Gainesville. 
The concert will include a guest per-
formance by Ajeva, a St. Petersburg-based group that is a close friend of Flat Land and performed at last weekend’s Suwannee Hu-laween music festival.
Flat Land’s set will also feature special 
performances dedicated to two fans who contributed to the group’s Kickstarter. The band will play songs requested by the cho-sen individuals.
The show will take place at First Mag-
nitude Brewing Company, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., and doors will open at 6 p.m.
McLeod promised nice weather, good 
company and great music.
“It’s a free show with delicious beer,” 
he said. “What else would you want?”  UF grad to play at The Bull  Flat Land celebrates album
MUSIC
 MUSIC
TVTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $350 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
11-18-16-14-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   11-15-16-20-22 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor. Like new 
BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/
ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D 
Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus 
rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-
9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    11-10-
16-12-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Live Next to Campus
Big, clean, furnished room in 3/1.
$567/mo. UF Law housemates.
Call Connor: 904-718-5943      11-8-16-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Ashley mission style recliner in very good 
condition. Brown faux leather, walnut arms and sides for sale $250.00  352-377-1851    11-7-16-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
2001 Toyota Tacoma
V6 4dr Double Cab 4WD , automatic, $2900, 
gasoline, 177.000 mi. . Call at 7852518737     
10-31-16-5-12
1998 Ford Explorer, great condition,
leather interior, must see to appreciate. 
$1,500 OBO. Call 352-281-8623    10-31-
16-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Gamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ACROSS
1 Workbench
gadget
6 Antlered beast
10 Glasses, in ads
14 Popular depilatory
15 Campaign staffer16 Rochester’s bride17 Part of the soft
palate
18 Lady of the
knight
19 Concussions
generally aren’tvisible on them
20 Goal for some
college-boundstudents
23 “What was __
was saying?”
24 Tie __25 Rat Pack
member
29 Growing
concerns?
33 Like a used
hibachi
34 Record-setting
slugger in theJapanese
Baseball Hall of
Fame
38 General on a
menu
39 Gadgets40 One of 34-
Across’ 2,170
41 Ocular organs of
cephalopods, say
43 Aspirin target44 Nocturnal
carnivore
45 Perambulates
47 Piece of cake51 Poet’s
contraction
52 Period needed to
fulfill a request ...
and a hint towords hidden inthree long puzzleanswers
58 Homey
59 Pack firmly60 “__ making this
up”
61 Spigot issue62 Site with tech
reviews
63 Trilateral trade
agreement,
briefly
64 Tag line?65 Grinder66 Speed unitsDOWN
1 Mötley __
2 Fiery flow3 Bleu hue4 Placate
5 Beseech, as a
deity
6 Anti-DWI gp.
7 Venetian
valentinemessage
8 Ones in charge,
for short
9 Sixth-day
Christmas gift
10 Workshop11 One who likes to
light up?
12 “__ go bragh!”13 Chooses, with
“in”
21 Two-front, as a
Coast Guardrescue
22 Divans25 Trunk piece26 Put a value on27 Words before
“Yeah, you!”
28 Brubeck of jazz
30 Like much of
New York
31 Company with a
longtime travel
guide32 They often have
guards
35 Self-help letters36 Super-duper37 1959 Ben-Hur
portrayer
39 Let out 
gradually
42 Use an Enigma
machine, say
43 “Black Swan”
Best ActressOscar winner46 Bad bottom line
48 “No prob!”
49 Origami staple
50 Reason to trot52 Corrida beast53 Israeli weapons54 Until55 Scoop
56 Suffragist
Lucretia
57 RR station
predictions
58 Govt. health org.
By Mary Lou Guizzo©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/03/1611/03/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, November 3, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 WantedTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AASwimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-
time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14
Looking for a student with strong excel/num -
ber skills, accurate and details oriented to support our digital marketing team. Flexible 
schedules (4/5 hours a week). Join our team! Email resume and cover letter to morandot -
ti@dibari-id.com or call  305 570 9385    11-
7-16-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Office Assistant: One of these passions- FX Show Justified/health & fitness/TedTalks. Rhonda Rousey follower, non stalker a plus. Excellent writing skills, love to read, math interest. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsroth -
stein@gmail.com     11-7-16-5-14
PT cleaners needed for home/apt/office cleanings ..day and night positions available. $ 8.50/hr weekly pay &must own a reliable car and be able to pass a drug/background check. If interested please call 352-214-0868    11-8-5-14
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FT
Call or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478
Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    
11-30-16-16-14IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 11/7- 11/10 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.    11-7-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Events/NoticesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida volleyball beats Georgia
Coach Mary Wise earned her 400th SEC win as the Florida volleyball team 
swept Georgia 3-0 last night. Read the full story online at alligator.org/sports. Melanie Monteagudo scored 
the winning goal in an overtime shootout, helping UF soccer defeat Missouri last night. Read the story at alligator.org/sports.UF HAS A TOUGH TEST IN 
ARKANSAS ON SATURDAY.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Nobody knows exactly what 
happened. 
Not coach Jim McElwain, de-
fensive line coach Chris Rumph or even Bryan Cox can explain how 
Cox's hand ended up in a club-
like cast reminiscent of a medieval 
mace, minus the spikes. 
“I don’t really have an exact ex-
planation,” Cox said. “It was just 
some freak accident.”
It happened during warmups 
prior to Florida’s game against Mis-
souri. Following a routine drill, the redshirt senior defensive end felt a 
sharp pain in his left hand and ap-
proached Rumph. 
“Coach, I need someone to go in 
for me,” Cox told him. 
Rumph obliged, not thinking 
much of what appeared to be a mi-nor injury. 
“The next thing I know, boom, 
he’s out,” Rumph said. “So I’m 
like, ‘Wow.’”
The diagnosis was a broken 
hand. Cox missed the game, and when the severity of the injury was announced on the Monday follow-ing the game, McElwain gave a grim prognosis to go along with it.
“I don’t know whether he’ll go 
again this year,” he said. 
Luckily for Cox, he was able to 
get his hand taped up in the box-ing-glove-like white cast and played two weeks later in Georgia. Howev-er, he was severely limited, notch-ing one quarterback hurry and no tackles. 
It didn’t matter. Even with Cox hurting along 
with fellow starters Jordan Sherit and Joey Ivie, who were dealing with injuries of their own, Florida’s defensive line dominated the Bull-dogs, amassing 16 quarterback hur-ries and opening up lanes for a pair of defensive backs to pick up sacks. 
“I thought our defensive front 
did a great job,” McElwain said af-ter the game. 
And with veterans not at full 
strength, the defensive line was led by a young group of players that has been haunting opposing back-fields all season long. 
Sophomores CeCe Jefferson, 
Keivonnis Davis and true freshman Jachai Polite have all been impact-Defensive line dominating halfway through season 
Melissa Smith / Alligator Staff
Bryan Cox (94) tackles Georgia quarterback Jacob Eason during UF's 24-10 win in Jacksonville last Saturday. After injuring his left hand in warmups before Florida's win against Missouri Oct. 15, the redshirt senior was forced to wear a club against UGA.
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
The first weekend she stepped 
onto the field at James G. Pressly Stadium as a freshman, Savannah Jordan scored five goals.
“It was kind of the opening for 
everything,” Savannah said. “I real-ized this is the place I was supposed to be.” 
For four years, Savannah has tried to meet the expectations she created for herself that first week-end — expectations that arose de-spite an unconventional start in a sport where she instantly became a star.
Now, as Florida begins its run in 
the Southeastern Conference Tour-nament, her story at UF is coming to a close.
It’s a story that has left a perma-
nent mark on both Florida’s record book and soccer program.
It’s a story that has made her one 
of most accomplished UF athletes of 
all time.
But it’s also a story with an end-
ing that has yet to be written.
“Freshman year I really tried to 
achieve scoring goals and getting those stats,” Savannah said. “But 
now it’s more about my team, and 
how we can win the SEC and how 
we can win the national champion-ship.”
• • •
Before she became a soccer star at Florida, Savannah was a sopho-more in high school committed to play at Auburn University.
The three-time All-American 
from Fayetteville, Georgia, grew 
up as an accomplished athlete in 
Taekwondo, earning her second-de-gree black belt and competing and 
earning gold medals in three junior 
Olympics.
But at age 13, she decided it was 
time for a new challenge in a sport she wasn’t familiar with, and so be-
gan her soccer career.
She was put in goal on her first club team, but six months later she 
wanted to try a different position.
Her coach at the time said she 
wasn’t good enough to play any-where else on the field.
So Savannah switched teams 
and joined the Concorde Fire Soc-cer Club, where she met coach Mac 
Williams.
When Savannah made the team, 
Williams said, he asked her what 
position she wanted to play.
“‘I don’t want to play goalie,’” 
Soccer star setting records, prepping for final postseason run
Jordan started playing at 13
SEE JORDAN,  PAGE 16THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
BOTH PLAYERS HAVE PLAYED IN 
THE COMPETITION BEFORE.
 By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
Josie Kuhlman and Belinda Woolcock 
smiled as they began to stretch before practice 
Monday afternoon. And why wouldn’t they?
They are the only members on the Florida 
tennis team to qualify for the USTA/ITA Na-tional Indoor Championships, with competi-tion beginning today in Flushing, New York.
“It’s always nice to have multiple players 
play in New York,” UF coach Roland Thorn-qvist said. “It’s the best players in America.”
Kuhlman and Woolcock qualified as a dou-
bles pair last November, lasting through the first two rounds before losing in the quarter-
finals. 
But this year, both were selected to com-
pete in the singles category.
Woolcock played in singles last fall, reach-
ing the semifinals of the tournament before 
losing in three sets.
Kuhlman, on the other hand, hasn’t played 
in the singles draw since 2014, where she lost in the opening round. But times have changed.
“Josie is a different player,” Thornqvist 
said. “She hits the ball much harder now, she moves much better. So the fact that she earned her way in I think is fantastic.”
But with the tennis tournament held in-
doors, all three agree the matches may be a little different.
“We are so used to being in Florida and 
outdoors,” Woolcock said. “But I think in-
doors is a great opportunity to look at how 
we’re competing inside.”
Kuhlman and Thornqvist both said the 
style of play at the National Indoor Champi-onships will be faster than what they’re used to this season. But it won’t change how they play.
“You can attack a little earlier in the points, 
use the serve more, so stuff like that,” Kuhl-
man said. “But as far as changing our games, 
we aren’t going to change anything.”
With Kuhlman a junior and Woolcock a se-
nior, Thornqvist doesn’t see the change from outdoor to indoor courts as a large issue, add-ing that “both hit the ball harder now than they have previously in their career.” 
Thornqvist emphasized in practice to take 
opportunities when an opponent hits a ball 
short, and to be “clinical” in decision making 
on offense.
Despite the tips Thornqvist had for his play-
ers, he knows they are ready for this weekend.
“I think our players have played against 
that caliber of talent week in and week out,” Thornqvist said. 
“I think these two are ready.” 
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.orgTennis duo preparing for National Indoors
ful, combining for 4.5 tackles for 
loss and 31 tackles total. 
Even with those numbers, 
though, the trio has played in the 
shadow cast by redshirt freshman Jabari Zuniga. Through seven 
games, he’s picked up seven tack-
les for loss and five sacks, both 
team bests. 
“That guy just keeps getting bet-
ter as a lot of those young guys do,” 
McElwain said. “It’s great to see.”
But this weekend against Arkan-
sas could be the unit’s toughest test 
so far this season. The Razorbacks 
boast a starting offensive line of ex-
clusively 300-pounders, and both 
tackles are particularly imposing. 
On the left side, Dan Skipper 
measures 6-foot-10 — tying him for 
the tallest player in college football 
— 319 pounds. On the right, Brian 
Wallace stands at 6-foot-6, 335 pounds. 
And together, the duo has al-
lowed quarterback Austin Allen to 
excel. He’s currently third in the 
SEC with 256 passing yards per game and is tied for the conference lead in passing touchdowns with 18. 
McElwain is hoping to change 
those numbers this weekend by forcing Allen out of the pocket with pressure up front. And with UF’s injured defensive line veterans back to compliment the emerging young-sters, he’s confident in the unit. 
“I think the whole country is 
able to see just how talented the young guys are,” he said. “... Go-ing into this final stretch with about 10 defensive linemen that can play anywhere is definitely an advan-tage for us.”
And as for Arkansas’ size up 
front, the coach isn’t too worried. 
“It’s a big group,” McElwain 
said, “but our guys aren’t too small either.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Zuniga has
emerged 
for Florida
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Josie Kuhlman serves during the 2016 ITA Regional Championships in Gainesville. She 
hasn't played in the National Indoor singles competition since 2014. 
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Belinda Woolcock prepares to return the ball during the ITA Regional Championships in Gainesville. 16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2016
Williams remembers her saying. 
“She didn’t know any other posi-
tions.”
Under his training, Jordan trans-
formed from a former goalie with lit-
tle knowledge about the game into 
the dynamic forward she is today.
He credits all of it to her determi-
nation and work ethic.
“Jordan is a rare breed. I have 
coached many, many, many play-ers, men and women. She’s a really 
rare breed,” Williams said. “I have always wanted to give to someone, and here is someone who ... is will-
ing to work at and achieve the goals 
she wanted to achieve.”
Throughout high school, Savan-
nah grabbed the attention of soc-
cer programs across the country, 
including almost all of the schools 
in the SEC.
After visiting schools from the 
west coast to the south she nar-
rowed down her top three: South 
Carolina, Auburn, and Pepperdine.
At that point, Florida wasn’t 
even on her radar.
That changed after she commit-
ted to Auburn.
With the Auburn campus only 
an hour and a half away from her 
home in Georgia, she decided to drive there on her own and had an experience that made her question her commitment.
“(I) had a really weird, over-
whelming feeling of just anxiety almost,” Jordan said. “I was like, ‘I can’t go to this school,’ ‘I don’t want to play here.' I got really emo-tional.”
That was the turning point for 
Florida.
After Savannah decommitted 
from Auburn, Florida assistant coach Vic Campbell, who saw her at summer region camp, convinced her to visit Gainesville.
After stepping on campus and 
meeting all of her future coaches, she knew it was the right fit.
“You kind of know where you 
are supposed to be,” Savannah said. “I came here, took a visit and right away I was like, ‘This is the place.’”
• • •
When Savannah scored five 
goals as a freshman in her opening weekend, it set a precedent for the rest of her career.
“(It) kind of sets an expectation 
and puts a little pressure on some-one,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said. “So having to deal with that since 
day one of her college career was a 
big part of her experience here.”
But that weekend wasn’t a fluke.
In her first season, she scored 22 
goals, the highest in a single season 
since two-time Olympic gold medal-
ist and World Cup champion Abby 
Wambach’s senior season in 2001.
That year Savannah was also 
named Soccer America Freshman of 
the Year, becoming the first Gator to 
do so.
“A player like Savannah proba-
bly comes around only once in how-
ever long it has been since I’ve been there,” Wambach said after a 2013 international friendly match against Brazil in Orlando. “You really have to relish the opportunity with this player, who decided to come and 
play for this college.
“Hopefully, she can break and 
shatter every record I’ve ever set.”
And she has come close.
Behind her leadership, the Gators 
made it to the quarterfinals of the 
NCAA Tournament in 2014 and the 
Sweet 16 in 2015.
Last season, the Gators won both 
the SEC regular season and tourna-ment titles.Savannah now ranks number 
two on Florida’s all time-career 
goals with 78, just 18 behind Wam-
bach’s 96.
The 2013 and 2015 SEC Offen-
sive Player of the Year also currently 
leads all active NCAA players in ca-
reer points (182) and goals.
In addition, she was one of just 
three collegiate players invited by 
the U.S. Women’s National Team in October to be part of a training camp that participates in two friend-
lies against international opponents.
But she decided to be taken out 
of consideration for the spot.
“Obviously that’s a huge honor 
to get invited to that, and that is something that everyone kind of 
aspires to,” Jordan said. “For me 
right now, I definitely want to just finish out this season with my team. I would have been missing three, maybe four games, so I just wanted to finish out this season here.”
Even with the success she has 
had on the field, she has never wa-vered on her commitment and her work off the field.
And her teammates have no-
ticed.
“She is the most hard work-
ing player I have ever played with. She gives 100 percent effort day in and day out in every aspect of life,” teammate Gabby Seiler said. “I have the utmost respect for her and the all the work she puts in.
• • •
With the start of postseason play, 
Savannah has one more chance to accomplish something that Florida’s soccer program hasn’t done since 1998: win a national championship.
“I would love to win a national 
championship,” Jordan said. “I would say that's my number one accomplishment I would like do be-fore I leave.”
But after this season, when her 
days of representing the Univer-sity of Florida are over, it’s not the points, the goals or the trophies that she’ll miss most.
It’s the memories she’s made 
over the last four years.
“My team, teammates, and 
coaches. I’m going to miss that the most, being around everyone 24/7,” Savannah said. 
“It becomes your life.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgJORDAN,  from pg. 14Wambach: 'Hopefully, she can break and shatter every record I've ever set.'
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan shoots the ball during Florida's 5-2 win over Iowa State at James G. Pressly Stadium. Jordan, a senior, leads all active NCAA players in career goals (78). "She is the most hard working player I have ever played with, " teammate Gabby Seiler said.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
As a freshman at Florida, Savannah Jordan scored five goals in her opening weekend. "I realized this is the place I was supposed to be, " she said.
