We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 22 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016
Wilson guarantees win against 
Tennessee
Other football players aren’t so 
conﬁ  dent, pg. 13
Suiting up with Gator Career Closet 
The closet allows students to borrow professional attire for free, pg. 5
UF designer raising money for cancer research
She will run 13.1 miles next year, pg. 5Patticakes celebrates grand opening
See our photo story, pg. 8
Patticakes celebrates grand opening
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
With ﬂ  u season almost here, 
the Florida Department of Health 
in Alachua County is now offering vaccines.
The department began offering 
ﬂ  u shots Tuesday and will con-tinue offering them on weekdays from 7:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. until sup-plies run out, according to a coun-ty press release.
The shots, which cost $25 each, 
are available at three locations: the department’s main clinic at 224 SE 24th Street, its southwest clinic at 816 SW 64th Terrace and its Ala-chua clinic at 15530 NW U.S. High-way 441.
Appointments are required at 
the southwest clinic and the Alach-ua clinic, according to the release.
People between the ages of 6 
months old and 18 years old who 
have no insurance — or who have 
Medicaid or an insurance provider 
that does not cover the vaccine — may receive the shots for free, ac-cording to the release. Residents with Medicare Part B can get their shots for free if they bring in their Medicare B cards and any other supplemental insurance cards.
Private and public schools in 
the county will provide free ﬂ  u shots to students this fall, but 
students must complete consent 
forms prior to receiving the vac-
cines, according to the release.
“In addition to getting a ﬂ  u 
shot, staying home when ill, prac-ticing proper cough etiquette and washing your hands are effective personal means to protect yourself and the community from a vari-ety of illnesses,” said Paul Myers, a department administrator, in a written statement.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org 
 Alachua County Dept. of Health oﬀ  ers ﬂ  u shots
CAMPUS
By Morgan Rynor 
Alligator Contributing Writer
At any given time, about 40 UF 
students are undercover, ordering 
and rating on-campus services.
Every semester, students apply 
to be secret shoppers, going around to review one or more of ﬁ  ve busi-ness-partner areas on campus: Gator Corner Dining Center, UF 
Bookstore, Pepsi Vending, Gator 1 
Central and Canteen Vending. 
They buy products and later 
write up reviews about their expe-
riences, said Ray Martignetti, the 
district general manager of Canteen Vending. Students rate based on customer service, cleanliness and quality of products.
In one case, a secret shopper 
ﬁ  led a report for a vending machine in which some M&Ms shattered during the bag’s drop, he said.
UF’s business services division 
started hiring students to be secret shoppers in Spring 2015, he said. Since then, satisfaction with ser-
vices has improved. 
Though students aren’t paid 
for the position, participants get 
gift cards, coupons or products, he said. The businesses get noti-
ﬁ  ed immediately when a survey is 
ﬁ  lled out. 
After reports are ﬁ  led, the divi-
sion gives the vendor the reports within 24 hours to ﬁ  x any issues, 
he said. 
“Rather than view comments as 
complaints, we view all comments 
as opportunities,” said Bill McGinn, the assistant director of business 
services. Canteen Vending, which main-
tains all of the vending machines 
on campus, received its most re-
cent report Monday, Martignetti 
said. It went from a starting satis-faction rate of 80 percent last year 
to about 98 percent.
“It’s another set of eyes on 
things,” he said, “and it only makes 
us better.”
UF alumna Carla Cabrita was 
one of the ﬁ  rst secret shoppers hired in Spring 2015. She said she used to go to UF’s dining halls. 
“Through these surveys I have 
witnessed the cleanliness in the dining halls improve,” Cabrita said. “Our feedback helped to imple-ment regular cleaning schedules that are posted on the back of the 
restroom doors.”
Cabrita said customer service 
has also improved with the secret 
shopper program. 
“I have noticed that I am con-
sistently greeted and made to feel a priority,” Cabrita said. 
During the ﬁ  ve semesters the 
UF alumna participated, she said quality improved. 
“I think  it is important that stu-
dents can play a role in improving the dining service for our peers,” 
she said. 
Though McGinn said the pro-
gram has reached its capacity this 
semester, new students will be hired in January. 
“Our UF business partners are 
very supportive of the secret shop-per programs and look forward to any and all comments made — good, bad or indifferent.” McGinn 
said.  UF students secretly 
rate on-campus vendors
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
EXTREME GARDENING
UF Physical Plant workers haul a fallen tree in front of the College of Medicine on Tuesday morning. 
Jeff Hughes, a 61-year-old Physical Plant employee, said more landscaping on the front lawn will be done in the future. 
The shots are $25 eachSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  89° LOW  71°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Debating truth: history in the 
mode of comics
Nina Caputo, an associate pro-fessor in the Department of History, will give a talk today at 5:30 p.m. in the Judaica Suite on the second floor of Smathers Library. Within the last decade, graphic histories in the comics medium emerged as a power-ful alternative means of com-
municating the complexities of 
the historical past. This talk ex-amines these narrative devices and the challenges they pose.
UF Study Abroad Fair
UF’s Study Abroad Fair will be on the North Lawn today from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Study-abroad programs help students discover new cultures, increase global awareness, enhance for-eign language skills, make new friends and establish new con-tacts. Overseas internship op-portunities are available. The International Center encourag-es prospective “Global Gators” to visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or call 352-273-1539 for more information.
Welcoming Week in Gainesville
Mayor Lauren Poe and County Commissioner Robert Hutchinson will read a procla-
mation for Welcoming Week in 
Gainesville on the steps of City 
Hall on Thursday at 5 p.m. UF and community organizations will offer information about 
volunteer opportunities with 
projects to make Gainesville 
and Alachua County welcom-ing places for newcomers from around the world. For more in-
formation, contact welcoming-
gainesville@gmail.com or visit welcominggainesville.org.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after 
the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 22
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
Shannon Poage, a 20-year-old UF English junior, holds up her tie-
dyed tank top at UF Hispanic Heritage Month’s Embrace Your Color cultural event on Tuesday.  
Students follow the instructions for tie-dyeing their tank tops at a table on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday.
A student adds the ﬁ  nal color to her free tank top at UF Hispanic Heritage Month’s Embrace Your Color event. The tank tops were given to students after they liked the UF Hispanic Heritage Month page on Facebook.
WHEN COLOR AND 
CULTURE COLLIDE
Photos by Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff  
UF Hispanic Heritage Month, the largest student-run Hispanic Heritage Month celebration in the U.S., organized the Embrace Your Color event. The ﬁ  rst 100 students to pass by on Turlington Plaza got free tank tops to tie-dye Tuesday morning.4   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016
By Romy Ellenbogen
Contributing Writer 
A UF professor’s book was 
named a National Book Awards fi-
nalist for nonfiction on Thursday. 
“Stamped from the Beginning: 
The Definitive History of Racist 
Ideas in America” is a 592-page 
comprehensive history of racist ideas from their origins to the present, said Ibram X. Kendi, the book’s author and a UF history professor. The book explores how racist ideas are spread and embedded in society.
Despite the book’s length, Kendi 
said he made the book’s language 
simple so the average person could 
read it. During a book tour that started this month, Kendi went to Greene Correctional Facility in New York to discuss it with inmates.  
Kendi started researching the 
book three years ago before pub-lishing it this year, he said. He researched the book using publi-
cations from historical figures in-
cluding Thomas Jefferson, W. E. B. Du Bois and Angela Davis.This is the 
second year in a row the National 
Book Founda-tion named a UF-affiliated au-thor a finalist, UF President Kent Fuchs wrote on Twitter. 
“One of the reasons why I’m so 
excited about this award is that it’s 
not only an award for me, not only 
did I get the book on the shortlist for the National Book Award, but the University of Florida did as well,” Kendi said. 
Gigi Bermudez, a 23-year-old UF 
alumna, said seeing minority pro-fessors like Kendi succeed makes her proud to have attended UF. She said it also reinforces how essential a diverse teaching staff is.
Bermudez, who is Puerto Rican, 
took Kendi’s History of Hip Hop class last Spring. She said Kendi al-ways made his class a safe environ-
ment for discussing current events, 
some about race relations. 
“It is a constant reminder that UF needs to start recruiting more 
faculty of color at the University 
of Florida, because the representa-tion of black faculty really matters,” Bermudez said.
For Kendi, the nomination came 
as a pleasant surprise. The final winner for the award will be an-nounced in the middle of November at a ceremony in New York City.
“I knew it was a possibility, but 
you never think something like that is going to happen to you until it does, unless you have a huge ego,” Kendi said, “and I don’t.”
UF professor’s book makes top-10 list for nonfiction
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Library West has opened the doors of a hu-
manities lab to all students.
The Scott Nygren Scholars Studio, a state-
of-the-art lab that offers a collaborative re-search space, was formerly open only to stu-
dents studying humanities. It is now available 
for 10 hours each week to all UF students and faculty members interested in digital humani-ties and research. Others interested in using the studio can make reservations at times that fit their schedules, said Jana Ronan, the chair-woman of Library West.
The lab, which opened March 17, 2015, 
features LED TVs that have touchscreen ca-
pabilities and advanced software like Adobe 
Creative Suite, Java Development Kit and Py-thon as well as tables and chairs that can be rearranged to fit a group’s needs, Ronan said.“We’re really excited about the space and 
hope more students become interested in it,” she said, adding that the studio has been busy since it opened. 
The studio was named after Scott Nygren, 
a former UF English professor and digital hu-manist, who died in March 2014. 
Tim Blanton, 25, said the studio allows 
him to explore his interest in digital humani-ties, which uses digital tools and computer software to learn more about subjects through research methods like text analysis.
The UF history graduate student said the 
studio honoring the life of Nygren allows oth-
ers to continue his work.
“It’s really great for us to bring a digital hu-
manities working group into his legacy,” he 
said. 
cdickson@alligator.org
@ced0624Studio lab now open to all students
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
During Tuesday’s short Student Senate 
meeting, three students were approved for positions on executive committees. 
The academic assessments committee, the 
student petitions committee and the transpor-
tation and parking committee each gained a 
new member nominated by UF Student Body President Susan Webster. Senators didn’t vote on any bills because none were submitted to the Judiciary Committee for review, said Ben Weiner, the chairman of the committee. 
Camden Anderson, a UF finance junior, 
was appointed to the academic assessments committee. He is also the executive secretary 
of academic affairs, a position in which he 
communicates between Webster and UF’s as-sociate deans, the 20-year-old said. 
The committee he’s joining reviews aca-demic curricula and instructional programs, he said. Anderson, who applied online at the end of October, said he wasn’t aware of what 
his specific role on the committee will be.  
“I haven’t actually been informed of my 
technical duties,” he said. 
Anderson said he applied to the committee 
because of its relevance to his other position.
“I’m really excited to be on the commit-
tee,” he said. “I believe it will really help me 
in my role as executive secretary.” 
TJ Pyche was approved for the student 
petitions committee, and Nathaniel Reiff was appointed to the transportation and parking committee. 
Senate will not meet next week due to 
elections, which are Tuesday and Wednesday from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org Senate approves three positionsKendi
On Monday afternoon, U.S. 
marshals arrested the man sus-pected of sexually assaulting a woman near Midtown last week.
Christopher Noel Gonza-
lez Cruz, 24, is accused of kid-napping and then assaulting a 19-year-old woman on Sept. 11 
after the two met at Midtown, according to Alligator archives.After the assault, which 
took place inside Cruz’s car, the woman began to scream, so Cruz quickly drove away. Gainesville Police eventually 
pulled him over for speeding, at 
which point the woman reported the sexual assault, according to archives.
Cruz then ran from police, and he remained on the run un-til marshals found him in Eagle Lake, which is located in Polk County, Florida, according to a statement issued by GPD.
A warrant was issued for 
Cruz’s arrest, and he was con-sidered to have fled to the Win-ter Haven, Florida, area. The Gainesville branch of the U.S. Marshals Florida Regional Fugi-tive Task Force then asked the Tampa branch for help, accord-ing to the statement.
Cruz was considered danger-
ous and likely to run away, ac-cording to the statement.
Marshals found Cruz as he 
left his brother’s house in Eagle Lake, and four vehicles blocked his vehicle so they could arrest him, according to the statement.
Authorities arrested Cruz 
on charges of sexual battery and kidnapping and nonrelated charges of trespass and burglary. 
They took Cruz to the Polk 
County Jail where, as of press time, he is awaiting transfer to the Alachua County Jail.
U.S. marshals arrest suspect in sexual assault incident near Midtown
A Florida man was arrested Monday 
after stealing a brand-new Buick to go to court, Gainesville Police said.
At about midnight Sep. 9, Marquis 
Donison Gross, an 18-year-old Micanopy, 
Florida, resident, stole a white 2016 Buick 
Enclave SUV from a Gainesville car deal-ership and later posted a Facebook video of him driving it, according to a police report.
A confidential source reported the 
stolen car to GPD on Sept. 13 after see-ing Gross drive it through Southern Pine Apartments, according to the report.
On Sunday, the Santa Fe Police De-
partment found Gross getting into the car, according to the report. Gross told police that he knew the car was stolen but that he didn’t steal it — he needed the car to make court appointments, he told police. 
Gross has been arrested four times be-
fore for stealing cars from the Gainesville Buick GMC Dealer, located at 2101 N. Main St., according to the report.
Gross has stolen be-
tween five and seven cars from the dealer-
ship, according to the report.
Police arrested 
Gross on a charge of grand theft auto and two charges of bur-
glary. Authorities took 
him to the Alachua County Jail where 
he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a 
$100,000 bond.GPD: Man stole car for court
A Fort Myers, Florida, man was found in 
Gainesville on Tuesday with a bottle full of mor-
phine pills and other narcotics, Alachua County Sheriff’s Office authorities said.
At about 3 a.m., deputies with the sheriff’s of-
fice found Robert Hunter Beal, 35, hunched over a curb in the 600 block of NW 69th Terrace, ac-cording to a police report. Crushed pills laid by his feet, and a pill bottle bearing someone else’s name sat beside him.
With his legs stretched out and his head down 
by his lap, Beal appeared to be sleeping when deputies approached him, according to the report.
Inside a bag he carried, the deputies found a 
pill bottle containing several different types of nar-cotics, including 16 morphine tablets, 18 Alprazol-am tablets and 11 acetaminophen and oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, according to the report. 
Elsewhere in the bag, deputies found a silver scale and a glass smoking pipe, according to the report. In his wallet, they found a Suboxone sub-lingual film, which is used to help treat opioid dependency. 
Beals told the deputies most 
of the pills were prescribed to his wife but that he uses them to treat pain in his back and hand, according to the report.
Deputies arrested Beal on 
four charges of possession of a controlled substance and one charge of possession of drug paraphernalia. 
Authorities took him to the Alachua County 
Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $14,000 bond.
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice: Man found with morphine911 REPORT   ·   911 REPORT   ·   911 REPORT   ·   911 REPORT   ·   911 REPORT  ·
Cruz
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Beal
Gross
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Olivia Ooten
Alligator Contributing Writer
Local board game developers will invite 
students and residents to test play their cre-
ations Thursday evening.
Atheris Games, located on the ground floor 
of the Reitz Union, will showcase a handful of local games and some of its own, said Andrew Birkett, the CEO of Atheris Games, which 
moved into the Reitz on Aug. 22 through the 
UF Big Idea competition.
The testing will run from 5:30 p.m. to 9 
p.m., the UF marketing junior said.
The goal of the event, he said, is for testers 
to give feedback to developers about how to improve the games’ designs.
“Other designers can bring their games, 
have them play tested and maybe see them to 
development one day,” he said.
One of the games slated for testing Thurs-
day, “Cul-De-Sac,” was created by Birkett 
and a team of developers in 2015 after raising money through a Kickstarter fund.
The game prompts users to annoy their 
neighbors by making as much commotion as possible, he said.
Birkett said Gainesville Playtesters has 
played an integral role in soliciting game en-thusiasts to test his designs. On the group’s Facebook page, designers can organize test meetings and post their own game ideas.
Chuck Call, Atheris’ CFO, said Thursday’s 
meeting should help designers see their games through a different set of eyes.
“Playtesting helps us better understand dif-
ferent scenarios that the game will go through 
when it is on the market,” he said.Atheris Games 
to host board game testing 
at Reitz UnionAlexa Lorenzo / Alligator
Student Government created the Gator Career Closet, located in Peabody Hall next 
to the Dean of Students Office, from which UF students can borrow professional clothing and other items. “I would have nothing if this wasn’t here, ” said Eric Budinger, an 18-year-old UF business administration freshman who left all of his business 
clothes at home in Pennsylvania.
By Alexa Lorenzo
Alligator Contributing Writer 
When UF freshman Eric Budinger left 
his home in Pennsylvania for Gainesville, 
his suits and slacks stayed up north.
Now, with the opening of the Gator 
Career Closet in July, Budinger and other students can borrow professional attire from UF for free.
On Monday, the 18-year-old business 
administration major borrowed a tan suit 
and patterned tie for an interview with a 
business fraternity.
“All of my business clothes needs 
to be sent down, but having this here is 
really convenient,” he said. “I would have 
nothing if this wasn’t here.”
Launched by Student Government and 
the Dean of Students Office, the Gator 
Career Closet, located in Peabody Hall, is open on weekdays from 10 a.m. to 2 
p.m., said Heather Ryan, a GCC committee 
member.
After surveying the campus community, 
SG realized some students may not have 
access to professional clothing, which is required for interviews, Ryan said.
“It’s not just for students who feel 
like they can’t afford a suit or a student who feels they have limited access,” the 20-year-old agricultural education and communication junior said. “It is really for all students to use and take advantage of.”
The closet, which features a dressing 
room, has male and female sections, both of which offer four racks of professional clothing, shoes and accessories. Faculty, staff and alumni have donated most of the closet’s clothes so far, Ryan said.
After completing a form, students can 
borrow the clothing they need and return it within varying time frames, Ryan said. Because the closet has entered into a yearlong partnership with La-Z-Laundry, students do not need to wash the borrowed clothes.
Since the closet opened, students have 
been checking out clothes at all times of the day, said Sabrina Gadala, a 21-year-old student assistant.
“The accessibility of the closet is one 
of the best facets of it,” the nursing junior said. “You don’t have to go anywhere.”Suiting up: Gator Career Closet helps students dress for success
By Claudia Perez Brito
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF employee will run 13.1 miles to fight 
childhood cancer next year.
Jennifer Ford, a 32-year-old senior graphic 
designer for UF Online, is running to raise 
money for Noah’s Light Foundation, which 
aims to find a cure for pediatric brain cancer. 
Though she ran a 5K in April, this will be her longest race. 
Ford has raised about $170 so far, but she 
said she hopes to exceed $2,000 before the half marathon on April 1, she said. 
Ford said she first heard about the organi
-
zation from founder Amber Larkin, a mother who lost her 8-year-old son to brain cancer. Having two children of her own, hearing this made Ford want to help find a cure, she said. 
“I’m also a mother, and I can’t imagine 
losing my children that way,” Ford said.
Noah’s Light also helps families by re
-
imbursing the cost of traveling for kids to participate in new treatments, said Rachel Wright, the Team Noah director and Ford’s team captain.“It’s scary for a family to be impeded by 
the cost of these trials,” she said. 
By training for the run, Ford isn’t just rais
-
ing money; she’s helping her family get ac -
tive, she said. She runs three days a week to prepare. On short walks, her kids come with her. 
“I’m doing it for a purpose and involving 
family,” she said.
She said training will be difficult, but she’s 
up to the challenge, Ford said.
“As long as I finish and raise the money, 
that’s all I care about,” she said.UF graphic designer raising money, running 
for childhood brain cancer research
Kelsey Bona / Alligator Staff
ALL CAUGHT UP
From left: T abitha Basuseto, an 18-year-old UF public relations freshman, Diane Reuangrith, a 20-year-old UF psychology 
junior, and Jacqueline Chung, a 21-year-old UF statistics and biology senior, catch up over a meal during Gamma Eta’s Bowls for Breast (Cancer Awareness) fundraiser at Chipotle on West University Avenue on Tuesday afternoon.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORThe impact of 
consumerism 
on charity
Recently our opinions editor was walking by Tijuana 
Flats on University Avenue and saw pink ribbons scrawled in paint across the windows. These ribbons, obviously symbolizing the global ﬁ  ght against breast cancer, really resonated with him. His mother is a 
breast cancer survivor. Also, his love of burritos is unparal-leled. 
Perhaps, he thought to himself, he could help ﬁ  ght the dis-
ease that once riddled his mother while also eating a delicious burrito ﬁ  lled with Monsanto food products.
Now there is plenty to be said about those pink ribbons. 
Those ribbons — and even the color pink that they have print-ed on them — are trademarked property of the Susan G. Ko-men organization, which donates less than a dime per dollar 
to actual breast cancer research. Most of the money, unsur-
prisingly, goes to making sure pockets stay heavy. But this editorial is not about the corrupt nature of the Susan G. Komen Foundation. It’s about that undeserved and arguably hypocrit-ical feeling of happiness and pride you get when you’re pur-chasing something and, for a dollar more, donating to (insert charitable cause here). 
We assume, dear reader, that like us, you exist in this para-
doxical reality where you are fully and entirely aware of your 
status as a “capitalist consumer” while also trying to consume 
modestly or even “not” consume at all. This used to be a moti-vation behind charitable contributions. Perhaps, some think, if I donate to such-and-such cause, I can counteract the inherent consumerist I am and do some good in the world.
But economics and psychology have advanced since then. 
Now, like at Tijuana Flats, that feel-good response you get comes automatically with your purchase. You are not only purchasing a Bangin’ Chicken Burrito; you are also buying 
into the ability to excuse yourself from that subconscious yet 
undeniable guilt you feel about being the purchaser. 
Such phenomena are everywhere. When you go to Publix 
and hit the checkout line, the cashier might ask you if you would like to donate a dollar to Children’s Miracle Network. When you purchase something at H&M, the store gives you eco-friendly bags and assures you all the store’s fabrics are created sustainably. (So f--- the gas emissions from transport-ing the products; so long as a tree was saved, you did a thing.) 
At the bank, if you make a deposit, the teller asks if some of 
your deposit can go in a college scholarship fund for a brilliant high-school student who would otherwise not be able to afford an education. 
The truth is we are surrounded by sad, scary and harsh 
facts. Something does, in fact, need to be done. But rather than putting $1 Band-Aids on the severed limbs of our society, we should have the courage to address these diseases head on. We ought to move our society in a direction that does not try 
to simply “help” poverty; rather, we should make poverty im-
possible in the ﬁ  rst place. It is fundamentally immoral to use consumerism as a way to remedy the problems that consumer-ism itself perpetuates. 
Let us be clear, dear reader. We are not against charity. 
For the love of God, do as much good as you can in this life. However, we are against ignorance. There is no shame in ac-knowledging the inevitable hypocrisy in our lives. If anything, let’s use this acknowledgement as a way to change it so we 
don’t have to be hypocritical.Support each other and help change society
As a 22-year-old female college stu-
dent, certain things are expected of me. 
My culture points out the neces-
sity of having a prominent bustline 
to get attention from guys. My college teach-
es me to excel so I can gain prestige in a 
male-dominated workforce. My commu-
nity commands me to follow fashion trends 
and wear the appropriate clothing for each 
event I am invited to. My religion asks 
me to follow rules to be able to understand and gain 
love. My female peers tell me to have a more ﬂ  exible 
personality to be able to ﬁ  t in. In magazines, I read re-
quirements to change my diet and my life routine so I 
can fulﬁ  ll certain standards of beauty. Advertisements and the media request that I buy more things that I 
don’t need. Because I am considered a “rebel” or an 
“outsider,” society puts pressure on me to agree with 
conventional standards.
As a society, we strive for unity and for the forma-
tion of a herd. As part of the mammalian species, part of 
our nature leads us to develop communities and differ-
entiate between members. This selective process allows 
us to reproduce and improve each following generation. Through this process, we have identiﬁ  ed the  features that make a partner more attractive. The human species has evolved to become 
more conscious and logical, putting us at the top of the food chain. 
This position has brought us some inter-
esting qualities that have been acquired over generations. As society develops, so does our selectivity and perception of perfection. This 
search for excellence has reached the beauty, 
food and recreational industries. Sadly, we impose these standards of perfection on the female gender, too. 
Our cultures, families and social media subcon-
sciously apply pressure to women and girls to meet these standards. 
It is our duty to help transform society. We are developing technology, creating ideas, ex-
panding our horizons and reaching levels of unity we never imagined possible. 
It is important for young people to remember that we 
do have a voice and we can use it to speak out against anything we consider unfair, outrageous or harmful to 
our society. 
Take advantage of your surroundings and any re-
sources that can help propel change. Become part of 
your community and don’t be afraid to reach out to 
those around you. 
The only way we can stop stereotyping, bullying, la-
beling and degrading others is by realizing where we 
are and where we want to go. Express yourself com-pletely and never be afraid to spread your joy to others. 
Things are changing, and they’re not going to stop. 
Thus, the decision is yours: Will you be a part of the 
process, or will you interfere with it?
Andrea Taboada is a UF microbiology senior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.
“It is important for young people to remember 
that we do have a voice and we can use it 
to speak out against anything we consider 
unfair, outrageous or harmful to our society.”
Andrea 
T aboada
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
Throughout elementary school, I — 
like many others — was taught to say “John and I went to the store,” and not “me and John.” You shouldn't say “I ated the sandwich” or forget that 
you’re you (and that’s your bag). And never, ever start a sentence with a conjunction.
Turns out, whether we like to admit it, we 
all make “mistakes.” Numerous grammati-cal errors have been made since we began in utero, the time in which we were to learn language. Amazingly, some linguists say our tiny baby brains were so smart that they were 
primed for language learning — we never re-
ally needed our parents to teach us language in the first place (Sorry, Mom and Dad!).
Language is a hard thing to understand, 
whether you’re a native speaker or a second- 
or third-language learner. The fact that you 
made a mistake grammatically doesn’t make you dumber for not knowing or remembering these things automatically.
For example, did you know it’s a common linguistic phenomenon to drop -g and -r sounds at the ends of words? This happens when a language changes, and it’s happening every day. You’ll hear it a lot in different American English and British Eng-lish dialects, as well as in numer-ous Creole languages. Contrary to popular belief, these phenomena don’t occur out of laziness or lack of intelligence. Words and sounds change all the time, and if you listen for it, I promise that you ain’t eva gonna miss anotha r-deletion or 
g-drop again.
Ever write a paper and forget to add the 
plural marker, -s, to a random noun and mar-
vel at why you would forget something so 
simple? Or did you freak out and wonder if 
you even needed it at all? (Do you say porcu-
pines or porcupi?)
When we write people off based on how 
they speak, we assume their grasp on lan-
guage determines their intelligence or self-worth. But even as a linguistics and 
English major, I find myself mak-ing language mistakes that others might assume I’d never make.
I’ve edited this piece at least 
four times, and there’s a team of kick-ass copy editors who are go-ing to correct this column another five. I’m keenly aware of my small grasp on the English grammar sys-
tem, and linguists are still studying it in ad-dition to other languages. I also know this doesn’t define me. When I mess up spelling 
“probably” or “restaurant” for the umpteenth 
time and forget to use the correct contraction when I’m texting, I’m reassured by the fact that grammar mistakes are common. It’s like 
breathing — everybody does it.
As there should be no shame in eating as 
many tacos as possible on Taco Tuesdays, 
there should be no shame in making grammar mistakes. It’s what makes us human. If you’re 
uncomfortable with your friends because they still don’t know how to use the correct “there” 
(Their? They’re? Thair??) or get squeamish when they drop a –g every now and again, then you might actually be the one missing out. I say this because if someone’s language use is stopping you from concentrating on what he or she is actually saying, then I’m betting you have been missing out on some really good conversations.
Language is hard and weird and unpredict-
able, which is why I think it works so well. If we knew everything about language, we would have contacted aliens, and I wouldn’t 
have a job at the Alligator as a copy editor. 
I also wouldn’t be able to study linguistics, which means I wouldn’t have the opportunity to learn and share any of these cool things 
about language with all of you. So maybe 
there’s something to be said for not giving a 
f--- when you forget which witch is ‘wich. Ev-erybody makes mistakes, am I write? 
Kaelah Scheff is a UF English and linguis-
tics senior.
Oh, ratemyprofessors.com, my dar-ling, my muse. How I long for your infinite wisdom during add/drop week. You show me the level of ef-fort I will have to put into each of 
my courses before I even enroll. You save me money on textbooks by assuring me  
that my Western Civilization professor  
won’t use it. You tell me how many pages that postcolonial theory final research paper has to be months before it’s been assigned. You are loaded with innumerable extra fea-tures like Facebook sharing capabilities, little rectangular head shots and witty tag lines like “Skip class? You won’t pass.” But perhaps the most useful feature on this very accommodating website is the “hotness” me-ter.
Unfamiliar with the Rate My Professors 
hotness meter? The hotness meter appears as a small animated chili pepper directly below the “level of difficulty” rating. To my under-standing, this meter is meant to gauge if your professor is hot in a level-of-attrac-tiveness way. It’s simple enough: If your professor is “hot,” the chili pepper will appear vibrant and red, but if your professor didn’t quite cut it, that chili pepper is left gray. 
This hotness meter raises a big 
question: What is hot? I’m sure plenty of Americans agree on what “hotness” is in Western media and culture. According to mainstream pornography and action movies, “hot” for women means big tits, petite bodies, lack of body hair and soft eyes. For men, it is a body type leaning to-ward muscular, “just enough” body hair and a full, luscious head of hair. But why is that what is considered “hot” by the average American, and what about people who have different standards of attraction?
This leads me to an observation I made 
last semester while doing my Rate My Pro-fessors rounds during add/drop week. I was interested in taking an anthropol-ogy course, and after I spent hours on my computer configuring and reconfiguring my schedule, I en-rolled in a section with a professor who had a 4.8 overall quality lev-el, a 1.8 level of difficulty, no text-book requirement and a red “hot-ness” meter. I was confused when I walked in on the first day of class 
to see a portly, bald man sitting behind the professor’s desk. Was I in the wrong room? Did I get my times mixed up? I checked my schedule again. I was in the right place. 
When the short man addressed the class, 
he gave the name of the man whose profile I saw on Rate My Professors, who was con-sidered “hot” by this sacred learning tool. He was a great professor: really friendly, ener-getic and understanding. But I spent much of the semester racking my brains to figure out what made this aging professor “hot.”
I would often see a handful of girls talk-ing to him before and after our class periods. They twirled their hair and batted their eye-lashes as he gripped his “#1 Professor” cof-fee mug and spoke about something like the mating rituals of an indigenous tribe in Aus-tralia. Was it his intelligence that they found attractive? His experience in the field? What were they seeing that I couldn’t see?
Beyond all of this, I have to wonder 
why exactly there is a hotness meter in the first place. I think about it every semester.  
Time and again I have found that my sexual attraction to a professor does nothing to help or hurt my experience in a class. So what’s the point? We all have a different definition of “hotness” anyway. A student’s attraction to a professor should have nothing to do with how effective a professor they are. It’s  
a useless feature that diminishes the credibil-ity of the great tool that is Rate My Profes-sors.
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Stop grammar shaming: We all drop letters every once in a while
Thoughts on the‘hotness’ rating from the Rate My Professors websiteGuest Column
ColumnKaelah Scheff
Speaking Out
Jeremy Haas
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016
Two espresso shots are prepared for Patticakes’ most popular 
drink — cafe con leche, a coffee with milk.
Patticakes employee Catherine Caple, 22, makes a double cafe con leche on Tuesday afternoon at Patticakes’ grand opening. Caple said the new location is a great place and that she is “excited to be part of the downtown community. ”
Software engineer David Quarles, 34, splits a cupcake at Patticakes with his friend Zoë Sessums, a 26-year-old UF journalism student. Sessums said she heard about the grand-opening event on Instagram.
Within two hours, 40 people had arrived at Patticakes for the grand-opening event. 
A SWEET GRAND OPENING
Photos by T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff  
Patticakes, a new coffee shop and bakery located at 185 E. University Ave., held its Grand Opening T oast to Patticakes event on Tuesday afternoon after opening its doors for the first time on Sept. 9. The restaurant offered a free small coffee with the purchase of a mocha cappuccino crunch cupcake. A portion of the money 
earned will be donated to the Pace Center for Girls of Alachua County.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
advertising@alligator.org352−376−4482
MASSACHUSETTS . . . 09 /02
KENTUCKY . . . . . . . . 09 /09
NORTH TEXAS . . . . . 09 /16 
LSU . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10/07
MISSOURI . . . . . . . . . 10/14
GEORGIA . . . . . . . . . . 10/28  
SOUTH CAROLINA . . . 11/10
PRESBYTERIAN . . . . 11/18
SEC CHAMPIONSHIP . . 12/02
CONTACT YOUR SALES REP!ADVERTISE IN  
THE ALLIGATOR’S 2016  
FOOTBALL EDITIONS15%AND
SAVEKICK OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUMRUN 5 OUT OF 9 DATES
KICK
 OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
THE GAMES WILL RUN 
FROM FRIDAY TO OCT. 1.
By Hope Basile
Alligator Contributing Writer
Still going strong despite the 
stigma of growing old, athletes ages 
50 and older will compete Friday in Olympic-style events.
At the 16th Annual UF Health 
Gainesville Senior Games, nearly 300 contestants will face off for gold, silver and bronze medals in nine athletic events such as cycling, track and swimming.
Joleen Cacciatore, the executive 
director of the Gainesville Sports Commission, said hosting the event will help promote friendly competi-
tion and active lifestyles.
“It is important to have the games 
for our local participants to promote 
active lifestyles and give them a chance to compete against each oth-er and do something that they don’t often have the opportunity to do,” she said.
The games, which will run from 
Friday to Oct. 1, will take place at several locations throughout Gainesville, including the gymna-sium at Santa Fe College, Cacciatore said. The top ﬁ  ve qualiﬁ  ers in each age group will qualify for the Senior Games state championship in Clear-water, Florida.In the past, there have been com-
petitors in their 90s, but the oldest competitors who usually participate are in their mid-80s, she said. Some participants travel from as far as South Florida and Jacksonville.
The majority of participants, she 
said, compete in cycling, track and 
ﬁ  eld and swimming.
When Denise Corbin, a 56-year-
old medical coder at UF Health 
Shands Hospital, competes in the discus throw Saturday, she said she’ll channel her high-school years, when she won gold in the event at her ﬁ  rst state meet.
She and her husband started par-
ticipating in the games about ﬁ  ve years ago because it was a bucket-list dream, Corbin said. The moti-vation to keep going comes from camaraderie with fellow participants — and the hope of winning.
“It is neat meeting people who 
still compete at our age,” Corbin said.
Sandy Hazeltine, a 64-year-old 
retired Gainesville resident, said this year will mark her ﬁ  rst time at the Senior Games. She will compete in the cycling trials Friday. 
To prepare, Hazeltine has been 
riding her bicycle and lifting weights four times a week for the past three months.
“I would like to at least place in 
the top three,” Hazeltine said. “That would be nifty.” Going for g(old): Senior 
Games to host athletes  
By Nicole Franco 
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF professor is looking for a 
new treatment for liver cancer by 
using a body’s molecule like a drug. 
Thomas Schmittgen, a professor 
in the Department of Pharmaceutics, is studying a cellular ribonucleic fragment, RNA, and how it contrib-utes to the development of cancer. Schmittgen said he wants to ﬁ  nd a natural treatment for the cancer. 
“The main goal of our work is 
to develop better treatment for liver cancer,” he said. 
Schmittgen, who has been study-
ing cancer for 10 years, has been researching ways to ﬁ  nd a more natural alternative to chemotherapy. Schmittgen and his team have been studying how the cellular fragment, microRNA, impacts liver cancer. 
With his approach, Schmittgen 
said he’s hoping to reverse the can-cer by restoring the level of microR-NA in the body.
The American Cancer Society 
found the number of  liver cancer cases has more than tripled over the past 36 years.
Dhruvit Sutaria, a UF pharmacy 
graduate student who has been helping Schmittgen since he began the project, said the professor “eats, sleeps and drinks data” when it comes to studying the cancer. 
He said Schmittgen’s passion for 
the research is evident in the way he 
spends late nights collecting infor-
mation and devotes some weekends 
to further their ﬁ  ndings.   
“When you 
look at anyone in academia, I 
think it’s driven 
by personal inter-
est,” Sutaria said, 
adding that he 
once thought he 
had cancer when 
he found a mass on the base of his throat. When Sutaria found out he 
didn’t, he felt relieved, but the close 
call drew him to learning more 
about cancer, he said.
Sutaria said Schmittgen has a 
more intimate connection with his 
students than any other personal in-
vestigator.
“All of us are from different plac-
es, and it’s amazing to see how we 
all work as a team,” said Sutaria.
Schmittgen said the research 
he’s been able to do so far is a result 
of the effort the seven others work-
ing with him in the lab and other 
collaborators around the country.
“You need to establish collabora-
tions with people, both within the 
University of Florida, in the country 
or the world,” said Schmittgen. Professor looks for natural  
liver cancer treatment
Schmittgen
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-30-16-29-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
10-12-16-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress SaleNew - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-1297 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13
Designated drivers are the greatest
1. GEOLOGY: What is pumice made 
of, and what is its most unusual char -
acteristic?
2. ANATOMY: How much blood 
does the human body contain, on aver -
age?
3. MONEY: How many ridges does 
a dime have?
4. GEOGRAPHY: What is the cur -
rent name of the country once known 
as British Honduras?
5. LANGUAGE: What is unusual 
about the sentence, “Pack my box with 
five dozen liquor jugs”?
6. HISTORY: When was the euro 
introduced as legal currency?
7. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which two 
presidents had sons who also became 
presidents of the United States?
8. MUSIC: What was Elvis Presley’s 
first No. 1 hit on a national chart?
9. MOVIES: What actor played the 
character of Charlie Allnut in “The African Queen”?
10. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of coyotes called?
Answers
1. It is formed by magma, and it’s the 
only rock that floats.
2. 10 pints3. 118
4. Belize
5. It contains all the letters of the 
alphabet.
6. Jan. 1, 19997. John Adams and George Bush8. “I Forgot to Remember to Forget”9. Humphrey Bogart10. Band
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 19, 2016 King Features Weekly ServiceLive Longer.
Drive Sober.
ACROSS
1 Pour love (on)
5 Sledding spot
10 Work the aisles,
slangily
13 Very familiar with
14 Not spontaneous
15 Howe’er
16 “Good Guys
Wear Black” star
18 Haul to the shop19 Sailor’s pronoun20 Full of energy
21 Stereotypical
Geek Squad
employee
22 Mass-mailing tool
24 Post-
performancecelebration
27 Went astray
29 Pupil’s cover30 Drawn-out
account
31 Not as
demanding
35 USN clerk36 Stroke with a
wedge
39 Take steps42 Defiant retort43 __-Seltzer47 Touchdown spot49 Log-shaped
pastry
51 Display for
lectureillustrations
55 “Siddhartha”
author
56 Charitable gift57 Instagram upload59 “__ matter of 
fact ... ”
60 Young __: tykes,
in dialect
61 Sofa decor64 Shear (off)65 Residences66 __ Romeo67 Onetime rival of
Delta
68 Having a key, in
music
69 Go against
DOWN
1 Title for Prince
William’s wife
2 The “thee” in
“Get thee to anunnery”
3 Seeing the sights4 Letter-bottom
letters5 Dispassionate
6 Cocoon contents7 Ungentle giants8 Shar-__: wrinkly
dog
9 Paper staff, briefly
10 Downright
11 Skimpy
nightgown
12 Folksy greeting
14 NBC skit show
broadcast from30 Rock
17 Prince William’s
wife
21 Scottish isle
denial
23 Finger-clicking
sound
25 A little laughter
26 Prefix with
technic
28 Unhook, say
32 “Crikey!”33 Sailor’s pronoun34 Doctrinal suffix37 Desktop with an
AppleCare option
38 “Canterbury”
story
39 Guilty40 “Operators are
standing by!”
41 Bygone weight-
loss pills44 French explorer
who namedLouisiana
45 Rude dismissal,
in slang
46 Passage between
buildings
48 AWOL seekers50 Kenneth __,
portrayer of
Judge Lance Ito
in “The People v.O.J. Simpson”52 Baker’s
protection
53 Valerie 
Harper sitcom
54 Item draped on a
rack
58 Scout gps.61 Skin pic62 “True 
Detective”network
63 Stripling
By Don Gagliardo and C.C. Burnikel
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/21/1609/21/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, September 21, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 9/26-9/29 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach-
ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     9-26-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 24 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     9-23-16-10-14
Oak Hall School is looking for coaches in the sports of soccer (girls) and tennis (girls). Application and more information can be found at www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment    9-22-16-7-14
Caregiver neededCompassionate caregiver needed for young lady with disability. Must be at least 18 years old, have a reliable vehicle,  and high school diploma or higher education.Over-nights and weekend shifts available.If interested, please contact Maryam Nikoonejad at (352)246-6039or Mr.Niko at (352)200-1017.        9-21-16-5-14
WGFL TV (CBS4) is seeking technically inclined, detail oriented people for full-time Control Room Operator positions. Must be able to work nights and weekends. Go to mycbs4.com, hover on "about us" and follow the Careers link for more information. Equal opportunity employer.     9-21-16-2-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Austin Appleby, who entered the season as Florida's second-string quarterback, will start this weekend. Read the story on pg 14 Former UF basketball player granted extra eligibility
Former Florida forward Alex Murphy was granted a sixth year of eligibility 
by the NCAA, he announced via Twitter on Tuesday. Murphy, who originally played for Duke before transferring to Florida, will ﬁ  nish his playing career at Northeastern University. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Quincy Wilson walked into the 
indoor practice facility alongside 
Jalen Tabor and Marcus Maye.
The trio of Florida defensive 
backs had a message to deliver to reporters after practice Tuesday. 
“Have you ever seen a duck 
pull a truck?” Wilson said. “Ducks don’t pull trucks. Nobody has 
ever seen a duck pull a truck.”
The crowd of media members 
surrounding Wilson stood bewil-
dered.
Wilson explained that Tennes-
see is the duck and Florida is the 
truck in the metaphor.
He then transitioned by assur-
ing the perplexed audience before 
him of one thing.
“Florida Gators are going to 
win, simple as that,” he said. 
Regardless of Wilson's confus-
ing metaphor, there's no ques-tion the junior cornerback is 
overly conﬁ  dent about his team’s 
chances against the Volunteers in 
Knoxville this weekend, and for good reason — the duck hasn’t pulled the truck since 2004, the last time UT defeated UF. 
But not everyone shares Wil-
son’s attitude.
Some, like sophomore Jordan 
Scarlett, who will enter Neyland Stadium for the ﬁ  rst time on Sat-urday, took the “just another game” approach. He didn’t want to stir up any more drama than there already was. 
“Not disrespecting the oppo-
nent or anything, but it’s how we prepare and how we go out there and play,” he said. “That’ll deter-mine if we win or not.”
Florida’s upper hand in this  Wilson guarantees Florida win over Tennessee
SWEET AND BAUER / OPINION
Let’s talk about freedom.
It’s a favorite topic of Florida 
coach Jim McElwain, who ram-
bles endlessly about how his play-ers have “freedom of choice, but 
not freedom of consequence.”
For example, freshmen Tyrie Cleve-
land and Rick Wells had the freedom to shoot BB guns at a UF residence hall. As consequence, they were suspended for UF’s season opener. 
That seems like a reasonable con-sequence. They did something that could’ve hurt people. It was a stupid thing to do. They got punished. The end.
But this weekend, Oklahoma foot-
ball coach Bob Stoops took that line of thinking to the extreme. It started with a comment made by his backup quar-terback, Austin Kendall, on a Fox Sports TV show. 
“I think they have a really basic de-
fense,” Kendall said, according to Cleve-land.com. The remark was directed at Ohio State's defense. 
As a result of the comments, Stoops 
restricted media access to a select few players who “understand” how to deal 
with the media. 
“It doesn’t make any sense,” Stoops 
added. “We talk all the time about there 
should never be anything but a positive comment about anyone you’re going to compete against.”
It’s unclear what exactly ticked Stoops off — whether it was the fact that his player criticized another team or that he said something controversial in general — but regardless, his re-sponse is pathetic. 
Kendall’s comments weren’t over 
the top by any reasonable standard. Athletes talk about beating their oppo-nents all the time. For proof, look at this week’s Florida-Tennessee game. 
UF cornerback Jalen Tabor, for ex-
 College athletes shouldn’t be silenced for daring to be different 
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14Grace King / Alligator Staff
Cornerback Quincy Wilson prepares for the start of a play during Florida's 32-0 win over North T exas on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.14   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
When Austin Appleby walks 
into Neyland Stadium on Satur-
day to lead his team against No. 
14 Tennessee, it will mark the 
fifth time in the last three years a backup quarterback has started a game for Florida.
Coach Jim McElwain is look-
ing forward to it.
“He’s been in Big Ten stadi-
ums. Now he gets to go to a real fun place to play in the SEC,” 
McElwain said. “Everybody can 
see what the heck you’re doing.”
Since 2013, former backups 
Treon Harris, Tyler Murphy and Skyler Mornhinweg have each started at least one game for UF. 
Harris replaced starter Will 
Grier in 2015 and Jeff Driskel in 2014, throwing for 271 yards and 27 yards, respectively.
Next was Tyler Murphy, who 
finished with 156 yards, one touchdown and one interception in a 2013 game after taking over for Driskel.
Finally, Skyler Mornhinweg re-
placed Murphy later in 2013, and had just 107 yards and one inter-ception.
But Appleby has repeatedly 
preached one significant differ-ence between him and past UF quarterbacks — experience.
“It’s just another game,” Ap-
pleby said. “I’ve been to Nebras-
ka, I’ve been to Ohio State, I’ve 
been to Michigan State, I’ve been to Penn State. The conference, the stadium’s are the same.“At the end of the day, it’s all 
noise.”
Appleby went 2-9 in 11 career 
starts at Purdue and threw 19 in-terceptions in 17 games.
Most of his playing time came 
in 2014, when he played in 10 games for the Boilermakers. That year, he finished 99th in the na-
tion in passing yards per game 
(144.9) and failed to crack the Big 10’s top 10 in passing yards per game or passing efficiency.
“Everything that happened 
at Purdue, in my opinion — the good, bad and indifferent — has prepared me for right now,” Ap-pleby said.
With quarterback Luke Del Rio 
sidelined for at least 2-4 weeks af-ter spraining the MCL in his left knee against North Texas, McEl-wain said Florida will be forced 
to tweak their offense, molding 
it around Appleby’s strengths. Teammates said Appleby is more mobile than Del Rio and that his 
6-foot-4 frame (three inches taller 
than Del Rio) will help him rec-ognize pressure easier and elude defenders in the pocket.
“He’s a lot bigger. He can move 
around very well,” safety Marcus Maye said. “He knows where to go with the ball.”
McElwain said it will be chal-
lenging to prepare for Saturday’s game with a new signal caller. On Monday, the coach announced all of UF’s practices would be closed to the media this week in order 
to implement new strategies and 
offensive plays.
“(Appleby) does some things 
differently, so we’re going to have 
to highlight some of those things. 
At the same time, we’ve got to make sure that Feleipe (Franks) and Kyle (Trask) are ready as well,” McElwain said. “But that’s 
what makes it fun.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgChange at quarterback nothing new for Florida
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Austin Appleby high-fives fans as he walks down Gator Walk before UF's game against North T exas on 
Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Appleby will get his first career start at Florida on Saturday.
With Del Rio out, UF may rely heavily on its running backs
game may be Scarlett and it’s stable of running backs. 
Comprised of Scarlett, Mark Thomp-
son, Jordan Cronkrite and Lamical Perine, the group proved its efficiency against North Texas. Each scored a touchdown and carried the ball at least nine times. 
Think of them like oxen. Together, they can pull the wagon — 
the Gators’ offense — for a whole season without wearing down individually. 
“We’re definitely a lot more fresh,” 
Scarlett said. “You don’t feel as banged up after the games and throughout prac-tice.”
UF coach Jim McElwain favors the 
four-back system over a one-back ap-proach. That goes back to his time coach-ing at Alabama, when Eddie Lacy was used as a fourth-team running back, he said. 
“That was a pretty good option,” McEl-
wain said. “And yet we were able to mix those guys in and, come the fourth quar-ter, we wore people down.”
The hope for the Gators is the same 
happens to Tennessee. 
Now without starting quarterback Luke 
Del Rio, the herd of running backs will likely see an abundance of action to help take pressure off backup Austin Appleby. 
That was apparent when Appleby en-
tered against North Texas late in the third quarter. He threw just four times in UF’s final 23 offensive plays. 
Scarlett knows there’ll be more pres-
sure on the running backs, but he’s wel-coming the opportunity. 
“I think we’re more than ready for the 
job if that comes to it.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg13Grace King / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain looks on during the third quarter of Florida's win against North T exas on Saturday. The coach said it will be challenging but fun to prepare a new starting quarterback for Saturday's game.
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Jordan Scarlett (25) looks to the sideline during Florida's game against North T exas.
“Everything that happened 
at Purdue, in my opinion 
— the good, the bad and the 
indifferent — has prepared me 
for right now."
Austin Appleby 
Florida quarterbackWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
VOLLEYBALL
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
The No. 6 Florida Gators volley-
ball team is already four weeks into 
its season.
But, as far as its athletes are 
concerned, their year is just getting 
started. 
Departing on Thursday, UF is 
primed to begin what coach Mary 
Wise refers to as its second season, travelling to Ole Miss and Alabama this weekend to kick off its South-eastern Conference slate. 
“Everyone in the league is 0-0,” 
she said. “The matches that we’ve 
played help us in terms of what we 
learn from them and what we can take from them, but we’re all at 0-0.”
And with an 18-match intracon-
ference gauntlet rapidly approaching, the Gators will need to apply those lessons.
While only one other SEC team 
cracked the latest edition of the 
AVCA Coaches Poll, Florida will be 
facing stiff competition from the out-set, squaring off against a pair of 11-2 teams in the Rebels and the Crimson Tide. 
Ten of the conference’s 13 teams 
own records above .500 — five have already surpassed the 10-win mark —  and this weekend’s opponents 
boast a combined record of 11-0 at 
home.
However, the Gators are confi-
dent, having carved out their identity during their current 10-match win-ning streak.
“Florida volleyball is physical, ag-
gressive at the net, good passing and defense that is unstoppable,” junior 
libero Caroline Knop said. “That is 
what Florida volleyball is.” 
It’s an apt description.Reigning SEC Setter of the Week Allie Monserez sparks the attack, dishing out assists at a rate of 12.12 per set, second-best in the nation.
Captain Rhamat Alhassan leads 
the SEC in hitting efficiency (.415) while working in tandem with Ra-chael Kramer to lock down the oppo-sition’s attack. The duo places third 
and second in the conference, respec-
tively, in blocks per set.Additionally, an 18-woman roster 
filled with quality depth ensures that the Gators will be able to keep up their energy deep into extra sets.
“If someone’s struggling, we can 
put someone in and continue play-ing,” Kramer said. “We have so much depth on this team, and every-
one is amazing.”
Ultimately, however, it’s the be-ginning of a new season. 
And with everyone at an even 
record, the Gators (10-1) will need 
to build that reputation back from scratch.
“Coming in here, back at practice, 
getting ready for our second season, (our goal) is how can we find a way 
to be Florida volleyball every single 
night,” Knop said. “We don’t always have great hitting percentages and good blocking.” 
“That’s what we’re coming in 
here to do today, getting ready for 
this weekend with Ole Miss and Ala-
bama.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgUF looking to form identity ahead of conference schedule
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Junior Caroline Knop serves during Florida's 3-0 win against Jacksonville on Friday at the Lemerand Athletic Center. "Florida volleyball is 
physical, aggressive at the net, good passing and defense that is unstoppable, " Knop said. "That is what Florida volleyball is. "
Jalen T abor (31) celebrates with his teammates during Florida's 45-7 win over Kentucky on Sept. 10 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. T abor has garnered a reputation for speaking his mind, especially on social media.
ample, tweeted this back in June: 
“they ain’t tripping they just can’t 
hang,” he wrote about the Cleveland Cavaliers, “something like UT in the forth lol.”
Tabor wasn’t gagged as a result, 
and Kendall and his teammates shouldn’t be either. Because when they are, it discourages college ath
-
letes from speaking out on issues that matter to them.  
As an example of speaking on 
something that matters, look at for
-
mer Florida quarterback Josh Grady, who served as Treon Harris’ backup in 2015 before graduating. 
He posted the following status 
update on Facebook Tuesday in re
-
sponse to the shooting of Terence Crutcher in Tulsa:
“Where is the outrage over the 
MURDER of Terence Crutcher by the police? No gun, hands up, still 
shot down by the police,” He wrote. 
“We had so much to say about Kaep KNEELING TOWARDS A FLAG but no one wants to say anything about the continuous injustice and oppres
-
sion that he was kneeling against? This country so backwards and the sad part is people can’t even see that. RIP my brother.”
Agree or disagree with him, but 
the point is he said it.
When’s the last time you heard a 
college football player say/post any
-
thing like that? Because for me, it’s never. 
And the reason is coaches like 
Stoops, who want their players to be shills who say pretty things to make 
the program look good rather than 
their actual thoughts. In essence, they want players to be PR people. If I wanted a PR response, I’d go to a PR person. 
And look, I get that there’s an un
-
written code that athletes shouldn’t cause controversy for their teams. It’s understandable. But silencing them unilaterally if they don’t speak like promotional robots is unacceptable. 
College athletes are adults. Their 
opinions may sometimes be unpopu
-
lar, but they’re allowed to have them and express them. They have that freedom. 
And while college coaches have 
the power to silence them as conse
-
quence, it doesn’t mean they should. 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg13'Their opinions may be ... unpopular, but they're allowed to have them'16   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2016
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
In the days following the Carpet 
Capital Collegiate, Florida men’s 
golf coach J.C. Deacon left a hand-ful of lessons for his team to pick up on. 
Hardly any of them had to do 
with the game itself.
It was the little things Deacon 
stressed that could affect a player’s mentality, like getting into the right mindset and forgetting mistakes made on past holes.
Above all, he wanted his players 
to form a better attitude while on 
the course, keeping the complain-
ing to a minimum.
“I think when this team faces 
adversity, and it’s probably my fault as much anyone else’s,” Dea-con said. “We shy away from it and almost feel sorry for ourselves.”
It was this attitude, Deacon said, 
that stopped the Gators from add-
ing on to the play of sophomores 
Sam Horsﬁ  eld and Gordon Neale, who hit 8 under par and 4 under par, respectively.
Neale and Horsﬁ  eld, despite 
struggling at times throughout the tournament, were praised by their coach for not complaining about their play and choosing to take ac-
tion to make it better.
Instead of letting it affect them, 
they focused on improvement throughout the day.
“(I) had a horrible bogey at 
nine. I was thinking ‘Oh, here we go again. Another wasted round,’” 
Neale said. “But I was able to get it going on the back nine with a cou-ple birdies and an eagle. That one felt really good. I almost could’ve birdied each of the last three.”
This mentality shows in their 
play.
Since he joined the lineup at the 
Mason Rudolph Championship, Neale ﬁ  nished within the top two of Florida’s players in four of ﬁ  ve tournaments, including ﬁ  nishing runner-up behind Horsﬁ  eld at the Mason Rudolph.
And in Horsﬁ  eld’s college ca-
reer, he has won three tourna-ments, ﬁ  nished runner-up once and 
added four more top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nishes. 
But while Neale and Horsﬁ  eld 
have established their place on 
the roster, the imminent return of freshman Andy Zhang from injury has placed an added pressure on the rest of the players to perform 
well or risk losing their spot. 
Luckily, they have a few more 
tournaments to show major im-
provement.
With a tournament under their 
belts and a little more time to shake off some of the rust from the summer, Horsﬁ  eld, Neale and the Gators are ready to take their 
coach’s lessons to heart.And that starts at a new location 
for a new tournament.
For most players, Sunday will be 
the ﬁ  rst time they play this season 
during the Windon Memorial Clas-sic in Glenview, Illinois. 
And for some, it will pose a chal-
lenge if they can’t adjust properly.
“It shouldn’t be bad, I had to do 
it all the time last year,” Horsﬁ  eld said. 
“Most of the work is on the 
greens. Getting the speed, getting the right breaks, where you can and cannot hit it. And then off the tees onto the greens. That’s why you 
practice, so you can repeat shots.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org 
 Horsﬁ  eld, Neale setting standard for Florida’s success
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Gordon Neale prepares to putt during the 2016 Gator SunTrust Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf 
Course.  Neale ﬁ  nished in 17th place at the Carpet Capital Invitational on Sept. 11.
Both golfers are underclassmen