We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 69 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016
Slovenian soccer player ﬁ  nding 
home at UF
Pamela Begic adjusted quickly to life in  America, pg. 14
‘Hamilton’ mixtape resonates with student
An international Santa Fe student tells her story of coming to the U.S.,  pg. 8
A guide to GNV hidden study spots
Four off campus spots where you can sit and study, pg. 8Hippodrome hosts new Christmas show
The show, “The Ultimate Christmas Show (Abridged), ” will run until Dec. 18 , pg. 10
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
With cold temperatures expected today 
and Friday night, Gainesville will activate 
its Cold Night Shelter Program.
Temperatures may sink below 45 de-
grees during the evening, which prompted the activation, according to a city news release.St. Francis House and Grace Market-
place at the Empowerment Center will 
provide overnight shelter to anyone in 
need of a warm place to stay until the overnight low raises above 45 degrees, ac-cording to the release. 
There is also a 60-percent chance of 
precipitation today, with winds ranging from six to eight mph, according to a fore-cast from the National Weather Service.St. Francis House provides temporary 
shelter appropriate for families, women and children.
Grace Marketplace primarily serves in-
dividual adults, according to the release. 
Both shelters provide food, showers 
and laundry, among other services, ac-
cording to the release. 
In the past, the city has opened up 
shelters for extreme weather, including 
hurricanes. 
The shelter program normally runs 
from Nov. 1 through March 31 when tem-peratures reach below 45 degrees, accord-
ing to the release. 
The program’s funding is provided by 
the city, Alachua County and the U.S. De-partment of Housing and Urban Develop-ment.
For more information about the pro-
gram, contact John Wachtel at 352-393-8565 or wachteljs@cityofgainesville.org.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org With cold weather ahead, Gainesville to activate cold shelter program   
THE VIRTUAL CENTER WILL BE 
WITHIN THE COLLEGE OF 
PUBLIC HEALTH AND 
HEALTH PROFESSIONS.
By Mary-Lou Watkinson 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF researchers are planning to help 
workers in the agriculture industry stay 
safe. 
The university received a grant of about $10 million Tuesday to fund the Southeast-ern and Coastal Center for Agricultural Safe-ty and Health, a virtual agricultural safety 
and health center that will be within UF’s 
College of Public Health and Health Profes-
sions, said John Morris, the director of UF’s Emerging Pathogens Institute.
The National Institute of Occupational 
Safety and Health gave UF the grant with 
funding from the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention, said Tracy Irani, the principal investigator of outreach for the ag-ricultural center. UF’s proposal for the grant scored high enough to be awarded funding. 
Evan Barton, the public relations special-
ist for UF’s Emerging Pathogens Institute, 
said the institute is currently working on 
projects involving worker safety in agricul-tural ﬁ  elds. 
“A lot of these issues weren’t being stud-
ied actively,” he said. With the center, re-
searchers will be able to explore the topics 
more. 
The center will focus on Florida, Geor-gia, Alabama, Mississippi, North Carolina and South Carolina, Irani said.
Agriculture is the main focus because it 
has speciﬁ  c safety and health issues such as 
temperature stressors, she said.
UF was chosen for its geographical loca-
tion and the unique agriculture in Florida, 
she said, adding the “prestigious” center 
will bring opportunities to the university.
“Certainly it helps further expand the 
university’s reputation as a ﬂ  agship univer-
sity,” she said.  UF receives $10 million to fund agricultural safety and health center ALACHUA COUNTY’S 
WATER QUALITY
 IS AN ISSUE.
By Karla Arboleda
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alachua County waters are not 
meeting standards set by the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency, so the county is implementing a fertilizer ban to improve them, a county ofﬁ  -
cial said.
Beginning today, a new ordinance 
will ban the landscaping use of fertil-
izers that contain nitrogen or phos-phorous until February 2017, said Stacie Greco, the conservation coor-dinator for the Alachua County En-vironmental Protection Department.
The Alachua County Commission 
adopted the ban on May 24, accord-ing to a county press release. It will be re-implemented every winter, Greco said.
Sally Adkins, the program coordi-nator for the Gainesville Clean Water Partnership, said the problem comes from the excess nutrients these types of fertilizers bring to water sources in the winter.
Gus Olmos, the water resource 
manager for the county’s EPD, said the fertilizers’ chemicals have inﬁ  l-trated Alachua County’s streams, riv-ers and ponds.
“It affects everybody,” Olmos 
said. “During the winter, the turf 
goes dormant, so it doesn’t take any 
nutrients. Whatever you’re putting there is not doing any good for your lawn.”
Residents can still garden and 
farm with these fertilizers, Greco said. Manure is an effective alterna-tive for landscaping.
As for code violators, the county 
will be lenient, Olmos said.
“The code does provide for civil 
citations,” Olmos said. “With a new code, we won’t go that route to be-gin.”  County to implement 
fertilizer ban today
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
EVENING EUCHARIST
More than 50 people gathered on Turlington Plaza on Wednesday night to partake in the adoration 
of the Blessed Sacrament after reciting the Hail Mary. The event was hosted by the Catholic Student Fellowship at UF. Read more on page 4. 
Temperatures may drop below 45 degreesSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  72° LOW  45°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Pajama Party Blood Drive
Get cozy and save a life. LifeSouth 
Community Blood Centers is 
hosting a Pajama Party Blood Drive today from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. It will be held at the Reitz 
Union, Room 2315. There will be 
games and prizes. All blood do-
nors will be entered to win a 128-GB jet-black iPhone 7 Plus during 
the month of December. Wear 
your best pajamas.
‘Agbedidi’ returns to UF
An annual favorite returns to UF and the greater Gainesville community Friday to Sunday. “Agbedidi” celebrates tradition-al West African dance together with the postmodern expressions of choreographers of the African diaspora. The performances are at 7:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday and at 2 p.m. Sunday. Tickets are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF faculty, staff and seniors and $13 for students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu.
‘A Christmas Carol’
The Hippodrome State Theatre presents its most recent rendi-tion of the classic “A Christmas Carol,” featuring Scrooge, 
Marley and, of course, Tiny Tim. 
The show will run Dec. 10 and 
Dec. 17 at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. It 
will also run Dec. 19 and Dec. 20 at 7 p.m. and Dec. 21 and Dec. 
22 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Call the 
Hippodrome Box Office at 352-
375-4477 for advance reserva-
tions.
UF faculty and staff appreciation 
dayThe Florida Museum of Natural History is hosting its UF fac-ulty and staff appreciation day 
Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
UF employees with valid fac-
ulty or staff Gator 1 Cards may receive one free value admis-sion to the Butterfly Rainforest 
and Wicked Plants exhibits. 
Employees may also receive a 
10-percent discount in both mu-seum gift shops. These offers are only valid Saturday and may not be combined with other offers.
Entries for science photo contest 
due Dec. 20The Elegance of Science art com-petition is now accepting entries and is open to UF students, fac-ulty and staff. Submit your 2-D research images or photos that incorporate scientific tools or concepts for a chance to win 
cash prizes. The contest is orga-
nized by the Florida Museum of 
Natural History and the Marston 
Science Library. Submissions are due Dec. 20. For contest rules 
or to view past winners, visit 
flmnh.ufl.edu/eos or call 352-
273-2013.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 69
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson, 
  Cameron Wallace  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandThe Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
HIS NAME IS 
WILLIE GREEN, AND 
HE GOES  ON AT 7 P .M.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
When Willie Green strums his 
guitar and belts out the blues to-
day, he’ll be going off memory.
The 83-year-old blues singer, 
who is performing at 7 p.m. at the Phillips Center for the Performing 
Arts, refuses to write down his 
lyrics or music, channeling his 
rocky life — he was once home-less and drug-addicted — sponta-neously into song.
Green, an Alabama native who 
now lives in McIntosh, Florida, will perform solo and with his band inside the center’s Squitieri Studio Theatre. 
Tickets for the two-and-a-half-
hour show cost $20 and are for sale online or at the Phillips Cen-ter box ofﬁ  ce.
Before rehearsing Tuesday af-
ternoon, Green reminisced about 
his 24-year career and spoke 
about his freewheeling approach to music.
“It’s all up here,” he said, 
pointing to his head.
Green’s performance will be 
ﬁ  lmed for TV as a part of the in-augural Cypress Sessions series, to be aired on WUFT-TV in the spring. It will mark the Alabama native’s ﬁ  rst televised appear-ance.
“I’ve never been on TV be-
fore,” he said. “I’m a little ner-
vous, but I’m not quite as ner-
vous as I was when I started.”
As a 19-year-old at a bar in St. 
Augustine, Florida, Green said he didn’t think he was good enough. With his harmonica pressed to his lips, he felt nervous to play for a 
crowd.
“I was shaking like a leaf,” he 
said.
Four albums later, and many a 
show under his belt, Green said he can play just about anything for just about anyone.
Green has been a regular per-
former for the past 15 years at The Yearling Restaurant in Haw-
thorne, southwest of Gainesville.
And although his life is lim-
ited now — he lives in an as-sisted-living home in McIntosh 
— the producer of Cypress Ses-sions hand-picked him for the TV 
show, which showcases Floridian musicians with interesting back 
stories.
Bill Bryson, the show’s pro-
ducer, said Green’s music oozes 
genuineness, a nod to Green’s nickname, The Real Deal. He 
hailed Green as the ultimate em-
bodiment of a blues singer.
“He was on my radar for this 
series,” he said. “And it’s good 
timing because he’s much health-
ier now.”
About ﬁ  ve years ago, Green 
was hospitalized for more than a 
month while he fought an infec-
tion.
“I couldn’t talk, walk, noth-
ing,” he said. “I thought that was 
it for my music.”
While undergoing physical 
therapy, all he had strength for was playing harmonica.
He said he had people pray-
ing for him, and — after a life of 
obstacles — it’s a miracle he can 
still play today.
For today’s performance, 
Green bought himself a new suit. 
He smiled as he spoke about the 
performance, a chance for him to 
sing his story.
“I thank God that he let me 
keep playing,” he said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org  From streets to stage: 83-year-old blues singer makes his TV debut
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Rev. Billy C. Wirtz, a 62-year-old typically solo pianist, T ampa DJ and Ocala resident, warms up on 
his keyboard for Willie Green’s band performance in the Phillips Center’s Squitieri Studio Theatre on Wednesday before his performance today. Wirtz said blues was considered “devil music. ” “Gospel says no matter how bad things get, with a little bit of hope, things will get better, ” he said, while “blues says don’t count on it. ”
4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016
By Elle Beecher
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital is 
hosting its ﬁ  rst art festival for people with 
special needs.
The ArtsAbility Festival, which begins 
today from 2:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., will fea-
ture musical and dance performances, art 
stations and a food truck. The festival is the ﬁ  rst of its kind, said Lana Watson, the direc-tor of rehab services at the hospital. Local artists will teach tai chi, seated yoga and re-
laxing drawing techniques, she said.
“This is a long-term dream of ours com-
ing to life,” Watson said. “It’s a buffet of 
events where you can choose your own art adventure and go have fun.”
The festival provides a chance to intro-duce art into the recovery process, she said. 
“We’re bringing together as many art 
forms as possible,” Watson said. “We want 
every person there to connect and craft their 
own experience.”
Amy Kinsey, a recreational therapist at 
the hospital, said a collaborative art piece 
will be made from each attendee’s creation 
and displayed in the rehab hospital.
“Maybe they’ll discover a love for art or a 
talent they never knew they had,” she said. 
Jason Hedges, a musician in residence at 
UF Health, said music can make a big dif-
ference in the healing process. He said he is 
excited to use music to connect with people 
at the festival.
“When I walk into events like this, my 
goal is to make friends with everyone I play 
for,” he said.  UF rehab hospital to host festival 
for people with special needs
THEY STOOD IN A 
CIRCLE AND RECITED THE 
HAIL MARY PRAYER. 
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
A group of 59 students stood side-by-side 
on Turlington Plaza on Wednesday night and 
recited the Hail Mary prayer. 
Dressed in different colored matching 
shirts, members of the Catholic Student Fel-
lowship held candles as they prayed for stu-
dents and faculty on campus. Since 2010, the group has come together to form a human rosary, standing in a circle and repeating the Hail Mary prayer for each participant, said Anna Tabone, the club’s historian. 
People who wanted to take part in the event bought a shirt from the organization and later signed up to represent a bead on the rosary, the 19-year-old UF health science sophomore said. 
“It’s a great time for us to get out there and 
share our fate,” Tabone said.
Rebecca Hoesterey, a UF health education 
and behavior junior, said she has taken part in the event for the past two years.
“It’s just a beautiful form of prayer,” the 
21-year-old said. “To be able to be on campus and be a witness is just beautiful.”
Michael Hedrich, a UF mechanical engi-
neering sophomore, said the event was a good opportunity for the group to spread love.
“It’s been a rough couple of months due 
to all the division the elections has caused,” the 20-year-old said. “In the end, we have to remember to love each other.”  Students form human rosary 
to pray for UF community THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
HE  WROTE THE BOOK
 DURING NATIONAL NOVEL 
WRITING MONTH.
By Melanie Mueller
Alligator Contributing Writer
It took Derek Cummings 30 days to create 
a dystopian world.
As part of the National Novel Writing 
Month — which ofﬁ  cially ended today at 
midnight — the 37-year-old spent all of No-
vember up until Wednesday writing at his 
laptop.
The result: 53,098 words toward the 
ﬁ  rst volume of “The Stone of Gatallah,” an adult-fantasy trilogy he began three years ago. Cummings said he hopes to publish the novel in April.
“I’m going to ﬁ  nish sometime today even 
if my hands start to cramp or lose sensation 
from all the writing,” he said.Cummings is one of 178 Gainesville writ-
ers who participated in this year’s event, 
which encouraged them to write 50,000 words for an original novel, said Jennifer Kinser, a librarian at the Tower Road Branch Library. She did not yet know how many par-
ticipants achieved the 50,000-word mark.
This was the sixth year Alachua County 
public libraries participated, hosting work-
shops and providing quiet places for partici-pants to write and discuss ideas, Kinser said.The fully online program allows participants to track their progress, and mentors provide them with words of encouragement along the way.
Besides the fulﬁ  lling feeling of ﬁ  nishing a 
novel, participants who achieve the 50,000-mark will receive a virtual trophy at the end of the month.
“Writing is a solitary activity, but when 
you’re doing something crazy like 50,000 words in 30 days, it’s nice to know you have company in your madness,” Kinser said.  Local hopes to publish novel
UF HEALTH IS HOPING 
TO RAISE MONEY FOR 
CHILDREN’S HEALTH CARE.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Contributing Writer 
More than two dozen Christmas trees and 
wreaths will be auctioned off to raise $50,000 for children’s health care over the next three days.
UF Health will hold its third annual Fes-
tival of Trees today through Saturday at the Tioga Town Center, located at 105 SW 128th St. The trees and wreaths will be sold through a silent auction, which will beneﬁ  t the Chil-dren’s Miracle Network at UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital.
The money will go toward pediatric re-
search, programs to help children, their fami-lies, equipment and renovations, said Lindsay 
Ritenbaugh, a development associate for UF’s CMNH division and the event coordinator. 
The festival will start today at 7 p.m., 
where this year’s spotlight tree, decorated 
by pediatric patients in the hospital’s Arts and Medicine program, will be auctioned. The showcase will be Friday from 3 p.m. to 
9 p.m. and Saturday from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
Ritenbaugh said she expects more than 1,000 people.
“We are looking forward to a great event,” 
Ritenbaugh said.
The Alachua County Environmental Pro-
tection Department decorated a tree with environmental protection messages and a wreath with ﬁ  re hydrants and notes, encour-
aging people to clean up after their dogs. 
Emily Rodriguez, a senior environmental 
specialist at the department, said it has spon-
sored the festival since it started.
“Basically, it’s a creative way to reach our 
target audiences with our environmental pro-tection,” Rodriguez said. “It’s a lot of fun for us.” Festival auctioning trees, wreaths The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Obama’s response to Castro’s death lacked empathy
Fidel Castro is dead. Finally. For years, 
there were rumors regarding the Cuban leader’s declining health. His public ap-pearances had become scarce since he transferred power to his brother Raúl in 
2006. But late last Friday, news broke that the 90-year-old had passed away.
Word of his death quickly spread around 
the world. This particular news was welcomed with jubilation in my hometown of Miami, which has a considerable Cuban population. People danced in the streets. They waved the Cuban flag, played salsa music and banged pots and pans. In my neighborhood, fireworks thundered in the 
night sky.  
It was a celebration more than a half-century in the 
making, one that’s been on hold since the dictator as-
sumed power in Cuba in 1959.
Yet while Castro’s death reverberated through nation-
al headlines, the rest of the country did not echo the same passionate sentiments as my city, albeit through no inher-ent fault of their own. To most of America and the world, Cuba is nothing but a small, economically oppressed Ca-
ribbean island that is irrelevant on the global stage. But 
Miami is only 228 miles from Havana. That’s more  than 100 miles closer than it is to Gainesville.
According to The Economist, there were 1.2 million 
Cuban-Americans living in the Miami metropolitan area as of 2012. A few of them are old enough to remember a time before Castro. Many left behind painful memories, personal belongings and family members in order to es-cape oppression and build a better life in South Florida. 
Their influence on the city’s thriving and diverse cultural 
identity cannot be understated.
I couldn’t help but think of these people as I read press 
releases from world leaders, including President Obama, in the wake of Castro’s death. The president issued a statement the following day. It was 226 words. But it might as well have been zero. Obama’s statement on Cas-tro was hollow and lacking empathy, dull and uninspired. Now, I’ve heard a lot of criticism over the 
last few days incorrectly arguing that his re-marks praised Castro. They didn’t. Obama’s words were not as eye-opening as those from Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who 
painted a rosy and romantic portrait of Castro 
by calling him a “remarkable leader,” and stat-ing, “While a controversial figure, both Mr. Castro’s supporters and detractors recognized his tremendous dedication and love for the Cu-ban people who had a deep and lasting affec-tion for ‘el Comandante.’”
No, Obama didn’t say anything like that. In fact, he 
didn’t really say much of anything at all. And that’s the 
problem. He wrote of his sympathy for the Cuban people 
and the common connections between our countries, which will hopefully lead to an improved relationship in the future. That’s fine. But as a president who prides himself on fighting for social justice, Obama had an op-portunity to condemn Castro for what he truly was: a tyrant; someone who jailed those who dared to oppose him, murdered his own people and allowed Cuba to dete-riorate to economic ruin.
Instead, when speaking of Castro’s legacy, he said, 
“History will record and judge the enormous impact of this singular figure on the people and world around him.” He took a soft stance on an issue that didn’t require neu-trality.
I can’t imagine the kind of oppression that made peo-
ple feel that boarding a makeshift raft constructed of old tires and inner tubes was the only way out. There was no guarantee they would make it to America. They risked 
imprisonment if they were captured, and death if they 
weren’t. All of this resulted from the rule of one man.
Obama failed to denounce the despotism and dictator-
ship that has caused countless human rights violations. And in doing this, he failed to acknowledge the suffering of an entire group of people.
Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His column appears 
on Thursdays.Absurd arguments: 
the societal leech
Perhaps one of the most famous (and offensive) myths perpetuated by financial conservatives is that all of those who receive government assistance in the form of wel-fare checks or food stamps are either lazy, addicted to drugs and alcohol or both. Today, we are going to evalu-
ate how absurd and ignorant this view is.
While we wish we lived in a world where poverty was simply 
an impossible situation to end up in, this is sadly not the case. Moreover, we find that once someone unfortunately finds him-self or herself in this sad state of financial ruin, it is incredibly difficult to get out. Economists call this phenomenon the “cycle of poverty.” The cycle is simple: poverty, unless intervened on from the outside, is more than likely going to continue. 
It makes sense formally in theory and intuitively in practice. 
Think about it: imagine you’re already living day to day on your paycheck, struggling financially in every sense of the word. One day, you’re doing laundry, and your washing machine breaks. Unable to afford a new one, you’re going to have to go to a laun-dromat to clean your clothes. But it takes a dollar to wash your clothes, and another dollar to dry them. When you’re living a life of “every dollar counts,” and you have to sacrifice some of those dollars to clean the clothes you wear to your minimum-wage job, you’re only digging yourself deeper in the poverty hole.
Well then, why don’t they just stop digging and jump out? 
Why not change the circumstances? If you’re in poverty, it’s not likely you’re going to have time (busy working several jobs) and money (especially now that you’re down two dollars every week just to do laundry) to educate yourself, allowing you to segway into better job opportunities. Now imagine being born into such a situation: Financial ability and social “ascension” are nearly impossible. People who are victims of these circumstances will probably live their entire lives as victims.
Now that we’ve established the nature of poverty, let’s as-
sess the other half of the question: the agents of poverty. It’s not uncommon every now and then to hear legislators drafting up potential laws that drug test welfare and food stamp recipients because of the belief they are taking advantage of a “handout.” It ought to be known that very recently, a year-long study of welfare recipients in Michigan found that drug testing clients does not yield positive drug results. 
This study was started when, in 2014, a law was passed in 
the state requiring recipients suspected of drug abuse to be test-ed. In the three counties where the study was done, 443 received or applied to receive government assistance. Of that 443, only 27 were suspected of drug abuse. Of those 27, only 14 actually got screened. Ten were receiving treatment through Community Mental Health, and three had their cases closed after the “sus-picion” was ruled to be unwarranted. Of those 14 people who were actually forced to test, only one welfare recipient yielded a positive result.
The reality is that painting broad strokes of “lazy and ad-
dicted” on those who receive government assistance is nothing more than a testament to your own lack of understanding of this issue. It seems all the evidence cited in casual conversation is nothing more than a narrative of “Well, I know someone,” anyway.
So with a new administration taking office in a little more 
than a month, think about how much of your hard-earned tax dollars they can waste by implementing such a misguided and 
ridiculous plan. Instead of trying to reinforce the cycle of pov-
erty by spending money senselessly in drug tests, let’s break the cycle and invest in our future via something worthwhile like public education.THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Brian Lee
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
I came home for Thanksgiving very eager 
to shut myself inside the house and relax; my sister came home very eager to get out of the house and see all of the friends she had left behind. It’s not that I don’t have 
friends in my hometown. It’s just that one of them doesn’t come home for that short break, and the others I see in Gainesville anyway. I didn’t really keep in contact with all the people I was friendly with in high school. Maybe in the beginning I did, but in the end, only the really strong relationships lasted.
A few years ago, I accepted the inevita-
bility that I would never have a large social group. Instead, I have little spheres of friends that sometimes overlap but most of the time represent very distinct areas of my life. If I am part of a large social group, I’m usually on the fringe — the friend of someone more solidiﬁ  ed within it. I’m sure there are many people out there who feel the same way. We don’t have that Hollywood, social-media-
famous circle of friends.
I believe that there are two broad catego-
ries for how people make friends — spread out and deep in. One form is not more valid 
than the other; it’s more of a person-by-per-son situation.
Spread-out people make friends 
easily and quickly and are more likely to have that large circle of friends. My sister, for instance, 
spent the last few weekends of 
high school at the lifeguard tower on the beach with the same sets of people. My mother has monthly potlucks with her group.
Friends are never lacking for 
these people; if someone is busy, they simply turn to the next per-son in their circle. There is a catch, however. 
From watching both my mom and my sister, 
I’ve noticed that there are very few, if any, people they stay close with for more than a certain time period. My mom has more close, intimate friendships, which is the result of being older. But I notice new names pop up in their conversations as old ones fade away. I went to one of my mom’s potlucks over break and recognized maybe three people 
from her original group. The rest were new. 
That’s not to say that they don’t still have 
those long-lasting friendships; they just go through fringe friends. They understand how 
to adapt. When people grow and change, it’s only natural they lose some friends along the way. Spread-out people are familiar with this, and they know how to accept it. They do have friends who will grow 
with them, but they know there’s 
so many people out there to meet that they don’t have to cling onto relationships that don’t work.
Deep-in people don’t have 
many friends. It’s just a fact. As someone who is deﬁ  nitely a deep-in person, I know it can be lone-
ly at times. If you only have a few friends, 
there’s no one to turn to when they are all 
busy. Some deep-in people don’t mind this at all, but some of us do feel it set in. We don’t always have weekend plans, and someone in our little sphere is not always planning a hangout. We meet up when we can. But, there is a hidden upside.
As my mom went out to her potluck din-
ner with her circle of friends, my dad was at 
home barbecuing for our family friends who 
had visited us — one of his close friends from high school and his family. That’s right. 
High school, which was more than three de-
cades ago for my father. I’ve known one of my closest friends since we were in sixth grade. My best friend, whom I have known since freshman year of high school, doesn’t even go to school in Florida, yet I know she will always answer my calls. See, we deep-in 
people may not have a lot of friends, but the 
ones we have are rooted and ﬁ  rm — though we may change, we know that our friends will grow with us.
The way people make and maintain 
friends is not a universal experience. Not everyone will make friends the same way, but there is some reassurance in the fact that other people have approaches similar to 
your own. There’s pressure on both ends of 
the spectrum. I’ve already talked about feel-ing left out for not having a huge circle of friends, but with a lot of emphasis in tele-vision and media on “ﬁ  nding your person” and lasting-friendship coming-of-age stories, some spread-out people may feel lacking. But, the thing is that no way is right and no way is wrong — what’s important is ﬁ  guring 
out what matters to you and understanding 
whatever that is, it is valid.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and 
computer science senior. Her columns appear on Thursdays.
Reaching out or growing deep: the diﬀ  erent ways we make and keep our friendsColumn
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.org
Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Netﬂ  ix-binge drinking game
‘Gilmore Girls’ revival edition, pg. 10THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
UF hosts ‘Sounds of the Season’ concert 
The sold-out show will be on Sunday, pg. 9By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
Music has the power to lift us 
up and carry us out of situations, 
whether those situations are just 
crossing the street or crossing the 
border. 
“The Hamilton Mixtape,” a 
musical companion to “Hamil-
ton: An American Musical,” will 
drop Friday with a selection of 23 songs from the Tony Award-winning musical by Lin-Manuel Miranda, according to a press re-
lease from Atlantic Records. 
The mixtape will feature songs 
from the musical, as well as three 
unreleased Hamilton demos. One 
of the seven songs pre-released 
was “Immigrants (We Get The Job Done)” featuring K’naan, Snow Tha Product, Riz MC and Residente.
The unique syncretism of hip 
hop and rap mixed with the com-plexities of musical theater gave “Hamilton” a fan base bigger 
than those of the usual Broadway 
buffs. The “Hamilton” fandom matured over the internet, with Miranda and others emerging as gods. Fans of the musical, and 
eventually the mixtape, express 
their support online wherever they can. 
One of these fans is Nayi, 
a Santa Fe College psychology freshman. 
Nayi, who requested we use a 
nickname to conceal her identity, is an international student from Spain.
She connected with the song 
“Immigrants.” The part that stuck with Nayi was when Residente raps, “Por tierra o por agua/Identidad falsa/Brincamos mu-ros o ﬂ  otamos en balsas,” which 
translates to “By land or by wa-
ter/False identity/We jump over walls or ﬂ  oat on rafts.” 
This particular set of couplets 
stuck out to Nayi because just two years ago she crossed the Mexican border with her mother, seeking asylum. 
“It was one of the scariest and 
hardest things I’ve ever done in my life,” she said. 
Crossing the border from 
Mexico into the United States, 
Nayi had to memorize the names 
and addresses of her relatives in South Florida and remember to fully cross into the United States and ask for political asylum, all 
while trying to remain calm and 
collected.
“We had like 20 bucks in our 
pocket, no phone or anything,” 
she said. “Just the papers and the 
20 bucks, that’s it.”
Once in the Laredo Sector of 
the United States Border Patrol, Nayi and her mother were kept 
for more than 24 hours in a place 
eating raw chimichangas and drinking from small bottles of water.
For the past two years, transi-
tioning to life in the United States as an immigrant has not been easy for Nayi. “When I ﬁ  rst got here, I had 
three jobs while going to school; I 
was living in a house with seven 
people and a dog,” she said. “I was sharing a bed with two girls.”
However, when she heard the 
song “Immigrants,” Nayi sud-
denly didn’t feel alone. The be-
ginning verses from K’naan made her feel represented and hopeful. 
“We come to America because 
we want to succeed,” she said. “The majority want to succeed. It’s like, immigrants, we get the job done.” 
Nayi found a community in 
musical theater during her junior and senior years of high school, speciﬁ  cally while performing the other musicals by Miranda. Dur-
ing her junior year, for “In the 
Heights,” she played Yolanda, and for “Bring it On,” she played one of the cheerleaders. 
“I like to do different stuff so I 
don’t get bored,” she said.
Miranda released “Immi-
grants” the day after the general election and said over Twitter that 
it “could not be more timely.”  
With the aftermath of the elec-
tion and people around the coun-
try and world feeling insecure about their futures, Nayi feared 
for her own in a country that she 
was beginning to feel at home in.
Nayi is waiting to receive per-
manent residency in the United 
States, and more than that, be-
cause she is in the process of ob-taining residency, her status in the country is currently expired. 
“It’s pretty scary,” she said. “I 
have nothing to hold me here.”
Even though Nayi’s residency 
situation is unstable right now, she can take comfort in the fact 
that she’s not alone. She said that 
“The Hamilton Mixtape” takes the issues that the country is fac-ing and tries to bring people to-gether to ﬁ  x them. 
Nayi isn’t giving up on her 
dream of making it as an immi-grant. Once she gets her residen-cy papers, she wants to study at 
UF and “get the job done.”
“I feel like this is my country 
now,” she said.‘Hamilton’ mixtape has deeper meaning for Santa Fe student
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
“The Hamilton Mixtape” comes out on Friday, with songs 
from the musical covered by artists like Usher and Sia.
By Cindy Lu
Avenue Writer
With ﬁ  nals right around the 
corner, study hotspots on campus 
quickly overﬂ  ow with stressed-
out students and red coffee cups. 
This exam season, skip waiting in line at the Marston Science Library Starbucks or wandering 
through Library West for a place 
to settle. Instead, check out some of Gainesville’s most aesthetically pleasing cafes for quality coffee and a fun study experience.Volta Coffee, Tea & Choco-
late: Located downtown at 48 
SW Second St., Volta offers an 
assortment of coffee and tea as well as baked goods. The venue is spacious with plenty of seat-
ing. Large tables are available 
for group studying, and for those who prefer to study alone, more private seating can be found in-side and outside. The shop itself 
is adorned with quirky wall art 
and provides a calm environ-ment, perfect for settling down with a textbook.Coffee Culture: Coffee Cul-
ture lives up to its name. The cafe 
serves hot, cold and frozen cof-
fee and espresso drinks as well as smoothies, teas and freshly baked pastries. There are vegan options, 
too! Free Wi-Fi is available inside 
and outside. Coffee Culture, lo-cated at 2020 NW 13th St., is a family-run business and promises to extend its at-home atmosphere 
to all its guests.
Lollicup: For those who prefer 
tea, Lollicup has dozens of ﬂ  avors 
to choose from. From fruit slush-ies to herbal drinks to ﬂ  avored boba concoctions, the shop, locat-
ed on 34th Street, has something 
for everyone. A large seating area is available for groups, and indi-vidual tables offer plenty of room 
for the solo studier. Lollicup of-
fers free Wi-Fi and an assortment of board games if you need to take a break. The shop closes at midnight on most nights, perfect 
for late-night cram sessions.
CYM Coffee Co.: With a sub-
stantial interior and outside porch 
area, CYM offers a lot of study space. You will feel right at home with all the cozy seating, book-
shelves and warm bakery treats. 
Grab a latte, a smoothie or both! For every 10 drink purchases, you will get one on the house. The 
venue, located at 5404 NW Eighth 
Ave., is popular with college stu-dents and locals. Live music and open mic nights are also regularly offered if you need a break from 
hitting the books.
With plenty of local study op-
tions, there’s no reason to face 
Library West. Good luck, Gators!
A guide to Gainesville’s best hidden study spots for ﬁ  nals
LOCALTHURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
This Sunday, UF’s College of the 
Arts and the School of Music will be 
holding the 67th annual “Sounds of the Season” concert with the theme “¡el Festival!” This concert will be 
held at the Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
The “Sounds of the Season” con-
cert ﬁ  rst entered the scene as a be-loved tradition in 1949 as a midnight Christmas service held in the Univer-sity Auditorium (then called the Cha-pel), where President J. Hillis Miller would deliver a Christmas message to the students. 
The concert itself has changed 
names over the years, ofﬁ  cially be-coming “Sounds of the Season” in 1989, out of respect for diversity. Additionally, the concert has greatly expanded since its inception, grow-ing too large for the University Au-ditorium and moving to the Phil-
lips Center, where, still, people are 
turned away at the door, said Wil-liam Kesling, director and conductor for the show. 
In 2014, “Sounds of the Season” 
was televised for the ﬁ  rst time of WUFT, as it will be this year. 
Sponsored by the president’s of-
ﬁ  ce, the show is “the president’s sea-
son gift to the community,” Kesling 
said. “(President Fuchs) loves this concert and is in complete support of it.”
Past themes for “Sounds of the 
Season” include “An American Holiday” (2015) and “Bells of Re-membrance” (2014). Each of these themes allowed Kesling to present a 
story that he described as being “told 
with scoring and narration.” 
Kesling aims to show audiences through music that, “even in the midst of chaos, there is something very special about this time of year.” 
This year’s theme, “¡el Festival!,” 
will tell a story of its own by weaving traditional holiday favorites in with Latin and Hispanic inﬂ  uences. 
“This year will be a celebration 
honoring a major part of our culture nowadays, and a world culture,” Kesling said.  
Performances will feature UF’s 
concert choir, women’s chorale, symphony orchestra, jazz program and  the Gainesville master chorale, as well as Ensamble Vocal de Medel-lín, a professional Colombian choir, the concert’s special guest. 
Admission is free, but tickets 
for the event have sold out. If you have already picked up a ticket, be 
sure to arrive before 6:45 p.m., as 
unclaimed seats will open up to the public at that time, Kesling said.
UF’s 67th annual ‘Sounds of the Season’ concert sells out
Courtesy to the Alligator
 The concert will be held on Sunday from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. 10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue WriterTake a sip when…
• Lorelai is seen with a cup of 
coffee
• Rory answers one of her three 
phones
• Luke gives out a Wi-Fi password
• Rory can’t ﬁ  nd her lucky outﬁ  t
• Emily and Lorelai have an 
emotional ﬁ  ght
• Lorelai’s backpack keeps 
openingTake a shot when…
• Kirk starts a new business
• Rory forgets about Paul
• Logan and Rory discuss their 
agreement 
• Jess gives Rory advice
• Paris scares a classroom full of 
high-schoolers
Finish your drink when…
• Rory takes the poem out of The 
Gazette
• Dean makes an appearance 
• Lorelai’s kitchen hosts some 
celebrity chef at the Dragonﬂ  y 
Inn
• Rory says the last four wordsIt’s been nearly a decade since 
we said goodbye to Lorelai and 
Rory, and still the “Gilmore Girls: 
A Year in the Life” revival couldn’t 
have come a minute too soon.  The revival brings the Gilmore girls into present day, complete with 
smartphones, social media and “Hamilton.” With four episodes, 
each one an hour-and-a-half long, fans can watch Rory, Lorelai and 
Emily experience heartaches, hi-
larity and hijinks through winter, spring, summer and fall of one calendar year.  
Whether you’re a die-hard fan or a newbie to the lifestyle and religion that is “Gilmore Girls,” the revival can be savored or 
binge-watched. If you choose the 
latter, here’s a guide to drinking your way through a year in the life (spoiler-free, of course). Grab 
a glass and play along! By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
Since last Friday, the Hippodrome 
State Theatre has been performing a 
unique, comedic Christmas story. The show, “The Ultimate Christmas Show (Abridged),” will run until 
Dec. 18, with shows every day of the 
week besides Mondays.
Written by Reed Martin and Aus-
tin Tichenor, the show is a family-friendly yet farcical take on a Christ-mas-themed play. It centers around three male leads who try to put on a holiday variety show. 
They book several acts for per-
formances, but all of them cancel at the last minute. This leaves the three men scrambling to put on the variety show they promised, imitating the acts they booked and entertaining their audience with off-the-cuff per-formances. 
“This show is a comedy, ﬁ  rst and 
foremost,” said Stephanie Lynge, the 
show’s director. “Each of the three 
actors plays something like 15 roles. If you need a laugh this holiday sea-son, then this is the show for you.”
The cast for the Hippodrome’s 
performance is composed of three actors, all long-time company members with the theater. Mark Chambers, David Patrick Ford and Matthew Lindsay have been in nu-merous productions at the Hippo-drome and are easily recognizable in the Gainesville theater community.
Darien Moore, a 19-year-old UF 
health sciences sophomore, saw the show during its opening week.
“These guys were great,” she 
said. “My little sister loved the show, and so did I. The actors had so much energy.”
The show originally comes from 
the Reduced Shakespeare Company, a touring American acting troupe 
with a repertoire of comedic produc-
tions on subjects ranging from Amer-ican history and classic American lit-erature to sports and the Bible. The rights to the show were just released this year, and this will be the ﬁ  rst time the Hippodrome hosts it.  
“This show is reminiscent of a ‘Saturday Night Live’-type of per-formance,” Lynge said. “There are a whole bunch of sketches like on SNL, but our show is actually fun-ny.” 
The show is intended for all ages 
and focuses on high-energy physical comedy.
“This is a slightly irreverent love 
letter to all of the things that make our holidays special,” Lynge said. “There are a couple of swear words and innuendos in the script — but nothing crazy. You can deﬁ  nitely bring your kids to this.”
Tickets for the show can be pur-
chased at the Hippodrome box ofﬁ  ce or online at thehipp.org. Prices range from $25 to $35 for adults, depend-ing on seats.  There are also senior and youth discounts available. 
 Hippodrome State Theatre hosts new Christmas show
THEATER
Courtesy to the Alligator
“The Ultimate Christmas Show (Abridged)” opened at the Hippodrome State Theatre last 
Friday and will run until Dec. 18. Tickets can be purchased in advance at the theater box office or online at thehipp.org. Prices range from $25 to $35, and discounts are available. 
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
The Weeknd has become one of 
the biggest artists over the past sev-
eral years. Since making his debut in 2011, Abel Tesfaye has transcended into a hit-making superstar.
What separates The Weeknd 
from every other artist is his ability to evolve and experiment with his mu-sic. Looking over his discography, every album is different than the last. Almost a year after taking over radio with “Can’t Feel My Face” and “The Hills,” The Weeknd seemingly came out of nowhere and kicked off 
his “Starboy” takeover with the re-
lease of his lead single of the same name and, more importantly, a new hair style. 
The album starts off with the 
lead-single “Starboy,” which fea-tures Daft Punk. The Weeknd link-ing up with the legendary duo was bound to be a hit, and within a couple days of dropping, it was the most-added song on radio stations across the country. The song alone 
doesn’t set the tone for the album be-
cause “Starboy” has a lot of different sounds. It does, however, prepare us to expect the unexpected.
On “Party Monster,” Tesfaye 
fuses his “Trilogy” roots with his new sound. The Weeknd reconnects with his wild lifestyle full of drugs and women — but this time, over a 
heavy-bass and futuristic sounding 
beat, instead of the desolate low-tempo style we were so familiar with early in his career. 
You’ll need to mentally prepare 
yourself before pressing play on the next song, “False Alarm.” The vo-cals are great as usual, but the song has too much going on in the beat. 
A general complaint I have on this 
album is that it’s too long, and cut-ting “False Alarm” might have been a good idea.
The mixing on “Starboy” is amaz-ing, as showcased by the transition into “Reminder,” which is a stand-out on this album. Tesfaye reminds 
us that he’s still the same by singing 
about winning a Nickelodeon Teen Choice Award for “Can’t Feel My Face,” which is actually song about his love for cocaine. 
The ﬁ  rst four songs are all differ-
ent from each other, and “Rockin’” continues that trend because it’s more of a pop/funk record. It’s hard 
to focus on this song when it’s fol-
lowed by “Secrets,” which is one of the best songs not only on “Starboy” but in The Weeknd’s entire collec-tion of music. It’s incredibly catchy. 
“True Colors” is slower and relax-
ing, serving as a prelude to “Stargirl Interlude.” Lana Del Rey has vocals on a few songs  but makes a full-on 
featured appearance on “Stargirl In-
terlude.” Together, these two songs feel like that unsettling, all-too-quiet moment on a roller coaster as you slowly rise to the peak of the ride before the huge drop, which in this case would be “Sidewalks.”
“Sidewalks” is my personal fa-
vorite song on “Starboy” for a num-ber of reasons. The song starts with an electric feel to it as The Weeknd comes in and spits a verse that goes harder than most rappers in the game today, along with a feature from Kendrick Lamar. The song is simply perfect from start to ﬁ  nish.Tesfaye  links up with Future on “Six 
Feet Under” as they go back and 
forth on the hook over a trap beat.
“Love to Lay” and “A Lonely 
Night” follow suit, and “Starboy” once again turns electric-funk. At this point in the album, my focus be-gan to drift, which is ironic consid-ering the next song is called “Atten-tion.” Again, I think that “Starboy” 
is too long in length; with a runtime 
of nearly 69 minutes, it’s about 10 or 15 minutes longer than it should be. 
Take a glance at the credits and 
you’ll see that Diplo has production credit on “Nothing Without You,” which makes sense when you listen. Future makes another appearance 
on “All I Know,” and then “Starboy” 
closes out with another collab with Daft Punk on “I Feel It Coming.” “Starboy” ends on a strong note with “I Feel It Coming” — a smooth, groovy record that’ll have you want-ing to restart the album as soon as you ﬁ  nish it.
The Weeknd decided to go in a 
new direction with this album, and he once again proved he can’t be caged. After transitioning to more of a pop sound on his last album, he perfected his style even further by combining elements from his pop re-cords, hip-hop beats, funk and elec-tronic sounds all under one album. Not many artists can pull this off, in 
fact, and attempting to fuse all these 
styles on a single project would be career suicide for most. Saying “Star-boy” is a must-listen doesn’t do it justice. 
Album review: ‘Starboy,’ The Weeknd’s third release
MUSIC
“Gilmore Girls:
A Year in the Life”THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $325 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
12-7-16-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22BR - Small pet ok$535/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law 
school, bus to SFC. Pool, living room fur-nished. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sq ft. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo or small 1BR $375/mo. Call/ text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    12-2-16-6-2
BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE down -
town. 5 br, 2 ba, wood floors. 320 NW 1st Street. $2500 per month total, individual leases per bedroom. Call 352-256-5921 or email simpsonm@ufl.edu.     1-4-16-7-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor in LR. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com      12-6-16-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
★★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★★
Southern red cedar & Arizona cypress, 3-30 gal. $9-75. Open Sat & Sun 10am - 6pm. Nov 26th - Dec 24th. 20926 NW 75th St., Alachua. BK Cedars. 386-418-8031    12-7-16-10-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              12-7-6-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NOW HIRING SERVERSApply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
ACROSS
1 Asset for
Sherlock
6 Fast
11 Additional
information?
14 Important period
15 Eat into16 What makes a
deal ideal?
17 Elaborate
costume parties
19 Pickle20 “Zip it!”21 Prosperity
22 “Blah, blah, blah,”
for short
24 Golden __
25 “I used to be
Snow White, butI __”: Mae West
26 Part of the pelvis29 In essence30 “Bor-r-ring”31 LPGA great
Lopez
32 Green shade
35 Rare blood type,
briefly
36 Shakespearean
barmaid
37 Picky details38 “But __ got high
hopes ... “: song
lyric
39 Neutral tone40 Prefix with -gram41 Like angel food
cake
43 Curry favor with,
with “to”
44 Ill-mannered46 Veers suddenly47 Distance 
runners
48 First name in folk49 How it’s always
done, initially
52 Heat meas.53 Places for seeing
stars?
56 CSA soldier57 Green shade58 Fragrances59 Pack animal60 Snooped
(around)
61 “Check”
DOWN
1 NASA vehicles2 Fish with
vermilion fins
3 “Jeepers!”4 “Ugh!”5 Enjoy Orbit
6 Masonry-
reinforcing rod
7 Inland Asian sea8 D.C. player
9 Set-for-life set
10 Lot
11 What can help
you avoid gettingstuck changingdiapers?
12 Form a coalition13 Personalized
collection of lovesongs, say
18 Consider23 Toronto
Argonauts’ org.
24 “... bug in __”25 Hustle or shuffle26 Former Mideast
ruler
27 Tops28 Groups with a
piece-keeping
strategy?
29 Like many a stray
dog
31 Bay sound
33 Incredulous dying
words
34 “Hurry!” letters
36 Tried to make it
on one’s own
37 Storied loch39 New Orleans’ __
Street
40 Crude smelting
product
42 “Once upon a
midnight dreary”
poet
43 Two-checker
piece
44 Eclipse shadow45 Times in ads46 Daydreamed,
with “out”48 Nonsense talk,
whose circledletter is the startof what might be
done with items
in the four longestpuzzle answers
49 Stuffed shirt50 Brutish one51 “You there!”
54 Ones following
the nus?
55 Court promise
By Bruce Haight©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/01/1612/01/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, December 1, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Designated drivers are the greatestSBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Film Producer-Director-Writer**WANTED**Collaboration on reality TV show concept. Responible to film, arrange, edit, compile clips and help make presentation to pro-duction company interested in project. Partnership & credit. soofinc@yahoo.com     12-2-16-10-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
1-6-16-13-14
**GatorWell is Hiring!**Front Desk Wellness Edu Student Outgoing & health conscious All majors welcome to applyjobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 500529     12-2-16-5-14
Polaris of Gainesville is looking for lot per-sonnel. Prepping for delivery, lot & building maintenance, general upkeep. valid D.L and background check! Apply IN PERSON at 12556 NW HWY 441, Alachua, FL 32615    12-2-16-4-14
PT cleaner needed M-F &every other Saturday..weekly pay 8.50/hr must have your own transportation 20-30 hrs a week..must pass a drug/background check.. if in-terested please call 352-214-0868     12-5-16-5-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    12-7-7-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Part-time, hourly - Garden upgrade & maintenance. Will train. Near UF.
Call 352-505-5254      12-7-5-14
Want to make a positive impact in the lives of girls in this community? Visit GirlsPlace.net/employment to apply. Hiring for multiple positions.      12-7-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 18 PersonalsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Ronni Williams and the 
Florida women's basketball team defeated Wofford on Wednesday. Read the story, pg 15"I've got a heck of a job. "
UF football coach Jim McElwain on rumors that he'd leave Florida for Oregon.By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
On Monday, the No. 24 Gators 
cracked the top 25 in The Associat-ed Press Poll for the first time since 2014.
But Florida coach Mike White 
couldn’t have cared less. 
He almost sounded annoyed. “We haven’t talked about it. We’re 
not going to talk about it,” White said, “because it doesn’t mean much.
“We have a saying in our program: 
no noise.”
Beyond those outside distractions, 
UF will also have to block out up to 5,800 screaming fans inside UNF Are-na tonight at 7 when the Gators (6-1) face the Ospreys (3-5) in their first true road game.
Florida cruised to a 97-68 win over 
UNF last season in the opening round of the National Invitation Tourna-ment. 
UF will try to repeat the shooting 
performance it put on against UNF in March, when it made 50 percent of its three-pointers. 
Senior point guard Kasey Hill had 14 points against the Ospreys in the NIT. 
“We actually were talking about 
(how to warm up) the other day in the locker room,” Hill said. 
“Whatever we did last year pretty 
much is our routine that we should stick with this year, too.” 
White said UF can’t rely on its By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Pamela Begic answered her 
phone.
On the other end of the line 
was an unfamiliar voice calling 
from over 5,000 miles away: Flor -
ida soccer coach Becky Burleigh.
At that moment, Begic realized 
the dream she had been longing for had finally arrived. 
The 18-year-old was an up-
and-coming soccer prospect in her home country of Slovenia, having just received a call-up to its se
-
nior national team several months prior.
But still, Begic wanted some
-
thing more.
She wanted to find someplace 
where she could fit in and be her -
self: Begic was contemplating cut -
ting her hair and had developed an interest in tattoos, but those thoughts were met with disap
-
proval from her friends and fam -
ily.
So, in hopes of leaving Slove -
nia and playing college soccer, she decided to send a personal highlight tape to nearly every Di
-
vision I women’s soccer coach in the country.
Upon seeing the video, Bur
-
leigh couldn’t help but pick up her phone.
“What are you doing in two 
weeks?” Burleigh asked Begic. “We are going to come and see 
you.”
About four years later, Begic 
has found her home in Gainesville, 
the final step in a journey that included a stint on the women’s basketball team and a personal self-transformation.
“It’s been an incredible ride,” 
she said.
•   •   •
Even Begic calls herself a tom -
boy.  
She spent her childhood years chasing after her older brother, Renato. Begic aspired to be like him in everything that she did and began playing a handful of sports 
at a young age, from volleyball to 
basketball to ping pong. 
But the game she and her 
brother loved most was soccer.
“It was everything,” she said. 
“I loved playing in the rain and just being dirty and muddy and wrestling with boys basically … I was one of the only girls that was doing it, so I felt special.”
Begic began competing in boy’s 
soccer leagues when she was 5.
By the time she was a teenager, 
Begic was regarded as one of the top female soccer prospects in the country and started receiving in
-
vites to camps hosted by the se -
nior national team.
She eventually worked her 
way through the under-17 and under-19 programs and was pro
-
moted to the senior national team in late 2011 to participate in the UEFA Women’s Euro 2013 quali
-
fying stage.
While Slovenia struggled 
against tough competition, going 1-6-1 in a group that featured Eng
-
land and the Netherlands, Begic made the most of her experience, logging 161 minutes of action in five games played.
“It’s this crazy rush and you 
feel important representing the flag and all these things,” she said. “To be able to do that, it was an honor.”
•   •   •
Begic went silent on the other 
end of the phone, shocked and unsure of how to answer Bur
-leigh’s question.
“I’m not doing anything!” she 
finally said. 
Two weeks later, UF assistant 
coach Alan Kirkup flew over 12 
hours to visit Begic in Ljubljana. 
The city was in the midst of a massive blizzard, forcing the high school senior to showcase her abilities to Kirkup in several feet of snow.
“He was freezing,” she said. “I 
was like ‘How could you even see anything?’ It was a bit of a shock to go from Florida to that.”
Despite the inclement weather, 
Kirkup liked what he witnessed from Begic and convinced her to sign a letter of intent with the Gators in March 2013.She moved to Gainesville that 
June, setting foot on American soil for the first time.
After settling into her new 
home, Begic bought a bike from 
Burleigh that the coach had 
nabbed off Craigslist for $7 and spent the next few days pedaling all over campus.Reinvented: Begic explores new freedoms in Gainesville
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15Hill, newly ranked UF basketball team looking to improveAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
In Solvenia,  Pamela Begic, a UF soccer player, developed an interest in tattoos and wanted to cut her 
hair. But her family disapproved. "Coming here allowed me to literally reinvent myself, " Begic said.
She was born in Slovenia
White
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16“I have no regrets. I mean, who 
gets that experience? Nobody.”
Pamela Begic
UF soccer playerBy Alejandro López
Sports Writer
A game removed from its 
worst shooting performance of 
the season, the Florida Gators women’s basketball team was 
looking for efﬁ  ciency. 
And its top two scorers deliv-
ered. 
Senior forward Ronni Wil-
liams — who scored a career-high 26 points — and sophomore 
guard Eleanna Christinaki shot 
a combined 20-for-28 from the ﬁ  eld, helping the Gators handily defeat Wofford in Ocala Wednes-
day night, 74-51.
“The goal for us is to be in-
terchangeable,” coach Amanda 
Butler said in a release. “We be-lieve in our depth … whomever 
the sixth person and seventh 
person is coming into the game, 
we want everything that they have.”
Sparked by six consecutive 
points from Williams, No. 19 
Florida (5-1) dominated Wof-
ford (3-3) from the opening tip-off. Williams and junior forward Brooke Copeland combined for 
17 points in the frame, powering 
a 19-3 run and accounting for 
roughly 81 percent of the Gators’ ﬁ  rst-quarter offense. 
Florida’s efﬁ  ciency translated 
to their own court as well. The Gators outrebounded the Ter-riers 9-6 on the defensive glass and collected two steals and three blocks, holding their oppo-nent to 24-percent shooting. 
“Defensively, I thought we 
did a pretty good job,” Butler said. 
The second quarter brought 
more of the same. Despite a 6-0 Wofford run to close out the half, UF led by 22, matching its largest halftime advantage of the season. Three Gators accounted for all of Florida’s 21 second quarter points, with Christinaki draining 14 to lead the charge. 
It was all Florida in the ﬁ  rst 20 
minutes of play. Williams single-handedly produced 80 percent of UF’s points for the half en route to her third double-double of the season. 
However, the Terriers weren’t 
going down quietly. 
Wofford outscored Florida 19-
13 in the third quarter, capitaliz-ing on a Florida scoring drought. The Gators failed to convert from the ﬁ  eld in the ﬁ  nal 4:45 of the frame, coughing up four turnovers in the process. Guard Cairo Booker scored ﬁ  ve of her nine total points in a 38 second burst to end the frame, trimming Florida’s advantage to 16. But despite Wofford’s late 
surge, the Gators quickly stopped their opponent’s momentum.
Williams and Christinaki con-
tinued their hot streaks, register-ing 10 points in the fourth quar-ter. Playing more minutes (23) than her previous three games combined, freshman guard Elif Portakal ﬂ  ushed the ﬁ  rst three-pointer of her collegiate career, dishing an assist in the ﬁ  nal frame as well. 
Winning in convincing fash-
ion, the Gators led for over 39 minutes, only allowing one Wof-ford player to record double-dig-it points.
“It sounds a little ridiculous," 
Butler said, "but we should have won by a little bit more."
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.org
 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
shooting to do it all this time, though. 
The Gators will have to divert 
a lot of attention to defending 
UNF point guard Dallas Moore. 
Moore averages 19.1 points 
per game, more than any player 
on either team, and White said he can make defenses pay if they leave him space to shoot from 24 feet or closer. 
“He requires a guy and a half 
or two guys (to cover),” White said. “Going right, going left, get-ting downhill, shooting a step back, those are all pretty high-percentage shots for him.”
Hill already knows what Moore 
can do. The two are friends and played AAU ball together.
“He’s very crafty, he’s left 
handed, and he can really shoot it,” Hill said.
Overall, Florida’s defense has been solid through seven games, except for one factor, White said.
“We’ve got to defensive re-
bound better,” White said. “It’s our biggest team emphasis right now.”
Florida gave up 16 offensive 
rebounds against Miami on Sun-day, leading to 13 second-chance points for the Hurricanes. 
Hill said the departure of 
Dorian Finney-Smith to the NBA plays a big part in the rebounding deﬁ  ciency. Finney-Smith, now a Dallas Maverick, averaged a team-high 8.3 boards for Florida in 2015-16. 
Florida will try to improve its 
rebounding and hold onto its ﬁ  rst ranking in two years when the game tips off at 7 p.m. 
“Other guys have to step up, 
and I think they will,” Hill said.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg. 14UF plays UNF at 7 p.m.The Associated Press
Kasey Hill, right, battles for possession of the ball during Florida's 78-61 win over Seton Hall on Nov. 24.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams drives into the paint during UF's win against Kentucky in the O'Connell Center on Jan. 31.
UF  beats Woﬀ  ord behind ﬁ  rst half surge
Williams led Florida with 2616   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHON
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.Not only was she adjusting 
quickly to a different environ-
ment, but she was beginning to feel reborn.
“I was on cloud nine,” she 
said. “I was just cruising around Lakeside loving life. It was amaz-ing.”
Part of Begic’s newfound en-
thusiasm also spawned from the 
distance she now had from her 
friends and family, who were not 
supportive of her desire to shave her head.
“They were like, ‘No, you 
don’t know how you’re going to look,’" she said. “There was so much doubt.”
Begic’s new teammates at Flor-
ida, however, welcomed her ideas 
with enthusiasm.
Eight games into her freshman 
season, Begic decided she was ﬁ  -
nally ready to lose her hair and asked the members of her team to help out with the process.
The Slovenian sat down and al-
lowed each player to cut off a snip of her hair before letting sopho-more defender Brooke Smith shave off the rest.
“I’d always wanted to do it, 
and coming here allowed me to literally reinvent myself,” she said. “And that’s what I did. It 
was a great time. September 16th, 
never forget.”
•   •   •
After a successful freshman 
campaign that saw her score four goals and notch six assists, Begic was attending an offseason prac-tice in January when Becky Bur-
leigh approached her with an op-
portunity.
After a slew of injuries reduced 
the UF women’s basketball team to seven active players several months into the fall, head coach Amanda Butler was desperate for an extra body on her bench.
Burleigh knew the 6-foot tall 
Begic had some basketball expe-rience and suggested that Butler give her a shot. After attending a couple of the team’s practices, she 
was ofﬁ  cially offered a position on 
the active roster.
“She just had really good ener-
gy,” Butler said. “We were asking her to do something very unique that was unprecedented.”
Begic dressed for 11 games her 
freshman season but didn’t see any court time. Her main contri-
bution was on the practice ﬂ  oor, 
where she learned team concepts on the ﬂ  y in order to help prepare for its upcoming games.
“I think one of the things that 
I admired about her the most was that in large part, everything we were doing was very unfamiliar,” Butler said. “She totally didn’t 
care about looking silly. She was 
just like, ‘Heck, let’s try it.’”
Begic returned to the pro-
gram again the following year after completing another success-ful season with the soccer team. However, the wear and tear of playing two varsity sports began to grind her down.
Transitioning from soccer im-
mediately to basketball kept Begic from receiving any time off for al-most nine months, and after once again not playing in a game as a sophomore, Begic decided to quit basketball.
“I realized it was too much, 
going from one season to another 
non-stop,” she said. “But I have 
no regrets. I mean, who gets that experience? Nobody.”
•   •   •
In her ﬁ  nal two seasons at Flor-
ida, Begic scored eight goals and notched one assist in 40 total ap-pearances.
However, in her opinion, the 
most signiﬁ  cant thing she’s done over the past two years is con-tinue to become a more well-rounded person. Begic has started writing poetry, is learning how to play the guitar and ukulele, and wants to become an environmen-tal activist after she graduates at the end of the fall, which are all 
things she never contemplated do-
ing when she was younger.
And not only has Begic kept 
her hair short or completely shaved since 2013, but she has also fulﬁ  lled a desire to decorate her body with tattoos.
Among her collection is a pair 
of sour cherries on her right arm, 
which in Slovenian translates to 
her mother’s name, Visnja; the phrase ‘Paint Your Spirit Gold’ on her left arm, which is a line in the Mumford and Son’s song ‘I Will Wait,’; and a Sri Yantra on her neck, which is a Hindu symbol that she said represents creativity.
“One of the ﬁ  rst things I want-
ed to do was get tattoos and shave my head and be a weirdo, so that’s what I’ve done here,” Begic 
said with a smile. “I’ve complete-
ly freed myself and developed. Gainesville is home forever now.”
Begic’s carefree attitude didn't 
just help her. It made a positive imprint on her teammates as well.
“She always has that energy 
and that fun spirit that keeps people who are pretty serious like 
(me) in a fun mood,” senior for-
ward Savannah Jordan said. 
“It’s been great to play with 
her.”
With UF’s season ending on 
Nov. 20 against Auburn in the third round of the NCAA Tour-nament, Begic’s collegiate soccer 
career ofﬁ  cially came to an end. 
While she wasn’t able to help Bur-leigh and the Gators win a nation-al championship, her coach will always appreciate the legacy she is leaving behind.
“What Pam has done, not only 
just for this program but I think for athletics in general is that she 
has shown that you can be your-
self,” Burleigh said. 
“I think she’s made all of our 
players feel like they can bring whatever they have to the table without fear of anyone judging it, and we will forever be grateful for that.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg. 14Begic allowed each teammate to cut of a piece of her hair
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Pamela Begic chases after the ball during Florida's 6-0 win over Alabama on Oct. 20 at Donald R. 
Dizney Stadium. Aside from soccer, Begic also played for the UF women's basketball team.
“She has shown that you can 
be yourself. ...we will forever 
be grateful for that.”
Becky Burleigh
UF soccer coach