We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 133 TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016
Robin Reynolds reﬂ  ects on Florida 
career on Senior Day
She helped set a UF relay record, pg. 13
UF exhibit highlights bug importance
It features children’s insect literature, pg. 5
STDs in spotlight this month
Alachua County spreads awareness for sexual 
transmitted diseases, pg. 9Dreams do come true
Students attend an annual Disney event called Magic Through the Ages. Check outthe mini photo story, pg. 3
 By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Students will get to ask two UF 
coaches questions this month.
Jim McElwain, UF’s head foot-
ball coach, and Mike White, the 
men’s basketball head coach, will 
speak in the University Auditori-
um on April 12 at 7 p.m. Neither coach is being paid and tickets are free, said Kevin Gerson, the Accent Speakers Bureau chairman.
The University Athletic Asso-
ciation is co-hosting the event, he said. Doors open at 6 p.m.Ted Spiker, the chair of UF’s De-
partment of Journalism, will inter-view the two for about 30 minutes, 
Gerson said. Students can then ask 
them questions.
McElwain and White will talk 
about their teams, their ﬁ  rst years at UF and expectations for next year, he said.
Gerson said this is the ﬁ  rst time 
in recent years Accent has held an event with UF coaches. Last year, 
Accent and the UAA hosted a Q&A 
session with UF Athletic Director Jeremy Foley.
He said after hearing Foley speak, students requested to hear from the coaches.
“It’s providing students an op-
portunity to hear from the coaches they look up to,” he said.
John Goracke, a UF ﬁ  nance 
sophomore, said he’s excited to get 
to know the coach’s personalities.
“You never really hear or see 
into the minds of what coaches 
think,” the 20-year-old said.
Students can get two tickets 
with their Gator 1 Cards at the Uni-versity Auditorium box ofﬁ  ce April 12 at noon. The general public can get remaining tickets at 6 p.m. that 
day. 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgCoaches McElwain and White to speak
IT WAS CAUSED BY A 
POWER FAILURE.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Some UF students lost hot wa-
ter Monday.
A power failure of a boiler 
in the UF Physical Plant Divi-
sion caused the malfunction, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in an email. 
The steam outage affected hot 
water and heating in buildings 
from about 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.
This was the second emer-
gency steam outage at UF in the 
past week. Last Tuesday, resident halls, science buildings and the 
law complex lost hot water for 
the day because of a valve in need of repair.
Sikes said Monday’s outage re-sulted from old equipment.
“Unfortunately, periodic out-
ages like this are a symptom of 
UF’s aging infrastructure,” she 
said.
Residents in campus dorms 
couldn’t take hot showers during the outage.
David Vega, a UF aerospace 
engineering freshman, said he didn’t know about the outage until he turned on the shower in Reid Hall.
“When I turned on the water, 
it was cold,” the 18-year-old said. “I heard other dudes freaking out throughout the day when they turned on the water.”
Vega said he ﬁ  nished his 
shower even though it was cold. 
He said wasn’t worried that the 
hot water would come back later.
“It’s not really a big deal,” he 
said. “I just assumed the water was out and it would be up even-
tually.” 
@merylkornﬁ  eld 
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org UF’s second steam outage this week, temporary hot water lossCAMPUS
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Messages written in red, white and blue 
chalk proclaimed Donald Trump will make 
America great again on UF’s campus.
Old Row, an entertainment website, 
launched an April Fools’ Day contest Friday 
on Twitter, asking college students to chalk 
“Trump 16” across their campuses.
The next day, the website’s Twitter account 
posted pictures of Trump’s slogan outside of the University Auditorium, on the entrance to Walker Hall and in front of the gator globe statue, which sits between Anderson Hall and Matherly Hall. On Turlington Plaza, “Trump 16” was written in white chalk. By early after-
noon, the message was smudged.
“Chalking is against university policy, re-
gardless of the nature of the topic. Political 
speech is free speech,” UF spokeswoman Ja-nine Sikes said. She then added, “It’s not about the speech; it’s about the chalking. It’s about the grafﬁ  ti.”
Ibram Kendi, a UF assistant professor of 
contemporary African American history, said 
he found out about the grafﬁ  ti on Walker Hall, 
which houses the Center for African Studies, through a student. Kendi said he wasn’t sur-prised by the pro-Trump grafﬁ  ti.
“I don’t see it as a coincidence that the 
building that houses the African American program was defaced with Trump grafﬁ  ti,” he said. “I think it’s something the university should investigate.”
By Monday morning, only black smudges 
remained on the sides of the entrance.
A representative from Old Row wrote in 
an email that “The Chalkening” started as an  Pro-Trump 
messages appear at UF
SEE TRUMP,  PAGE 4Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
REPTILE REFLECTIONS
An alligator rests in the water near the north shore of Lake Alice, accompanied by numerous softshell turtles meandering 
through the water. Intrigued visitors snapped photos of the lake’s denizens on Monday evening.
McElwain
White
They aren’t being paid
“Unfortunately, periodic 
outages like this are a 
symptom of UF’s aging 
infrastructure.”
Janine Sikes
UF spokeswomanSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘The House of Atreus’
The UF School of Theatre + 
Dance presents “The House of Atreus,” John Lewin’s ac-claimed adaptation of the only 
surviving Greek tragic trilogy 
that brings alive a royal fam-ily’s journey through betrayal, murder and revenge. The worldview changes for some of the most powerfully depicted characters in western drama as they progress from their primal motives for an 
eye-for-an-eye vengeance to 
a judicial system of law and order. “The House of Atreus” show-ing in Constans Theatre today through Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets are $18 for the public, $15 for seniors and UF faculty and 
staff and $13 for students. 
Tickets and more information available at arts.ufl.edu.
Take Back the Night March 
and Rally to End Sexual ViolenceJoin Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence 
Education as the group partici-
pates in Take Back the Night to demonstrate support for sexu-al violence survivors, share stories and create a culture of care. The event will take place Wednesday at 6 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas. It in-volves a 1-mile march around 
campus that will end with 
an open mic. There will be a keynote speaker, resources for survivors, free T-shirts, food and amazing performers. Learn more at facebook.com/events/966985553378128.
Campus Earth Day Celebration
UF’s Office of Sustainability will host its annual Campus Earth Day Celebration from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Wednesday on the Plaza of the Americas. This year’s event will feature a tabling and activity fair with more than 28 participating or-ganizations. Featured activi-
ties include a clothing swap, 
recycled art displays, games, upcycled crafts, interactive demonstrations and more. The formal portion of the event will begin at 11 a.m. and will feature the annual State of Sustainability address, the Champions for Change 
Awards presentation and the 
announcement of the Greek Eco Challenge winner. The event will also feature a series of sustainability infor-mation sessions taking place concurrently throughout the day in Smathers Library, Room 100. These sessions will include discussions on topics such as green tips for renters and own-
ers, bike commuting, com-
posting and voluntary carbon offsets. Campus Earth Day is free and open to the public. For more information, visit sustainable.ufl.edu/events.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alliga-tor.org. To request publica-tion in the next day’s news-paper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 133
HIGH  82° LOW  54°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Dreams do come true
Photos by Isabel Bonnet
Alligator Staff Photographer 
Jessica Madera, a 20-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesi-
ology sophomore, hands out flowers to make “T angled”-inspired crowns. Madera was one of the organizers of the third annual Disney event, Magic Through the Ages.LEFT:
Seth Singson, a 22-year-old UF statistics and economics ju-nior, takes a turn on the “Find-ing Nemo”-inspired mechanical shark at the third annual Disney-themed event, Magic Through the Ages, at the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom on Monday night.
BELOW:
Sarah Hayes (right), a 19-year-old UF business freshman, talks with LeAnn Meyer, a 22-year-old UF business senior, at Magic Through the Ages in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom on Monday night. “I came because I love Disney ... and I have the costume” , said Meyer, who was wearing a costume of Princess Merida from “Brave. ”April Fools’ Day contest to show “Out of con-
trol outrage culture censoring dissent on col-lege campuses.” The representative declined to give his or her name.The term “old row” has historically re-
ferred to older fraternities established at the University of Alabama.  
The representative, who confirmed the 
Old Row received submissions from UF, said the submissions didn’t necessarily have to be about Trump.On Friday, Old Row’s twitter offered win-
ning college students of the contest a $100 Old Row gift card.
Online, students used #TheChalkening, 
posting pictures of chalk messages across col-lege campuses. The Old Row representative said the contest took a life of its own.
“Our contest was a fun way to expose how 
silly it is to get upset enough to call the police or threaten others over something like chalk being written about the candidate you do not like,” the representative said.
Maegan Muir, 20, noticed the chalk mes-
sage while tabling on Turlington Plaza.
“Ew,” the UF environmental junior said. 
She said that the message could be an attempt to garner support for the presidential hopeful.  
“When is (Trump) gonna be like ‘I’m just 
messing with everyone’?” Muir said.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgBy Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Odyssey of the Mind 
team is preparing to compete at the World Finals in May.
The club encourages mem-
bers to solve problems in cre-
ative ways, said Emily Long, the 
founder of UF’s team. 
For example, if a student is 
asked what’s cold, he or she might reply “The Grinch’s heart.”
Although the team won’t compete in the state competi-tion until Saturday, the members have already begun fundraising 
for the World Finals at Iowa State 
University. 
Long said they are the only 
collegiate team competing in Florida.
Challenges for the internation-
al competition are unknown. 
If the team competes in the in-
ternational competition, it could 
challenge other college teams in 
building structures and perform-ing music and plays, the 18-year-old said.
If the team doesn’t do well at 
states, it won’t move on to the World Finals, the UF journalism freshman said.
The team started a GoFundMe 
page to raise $4,900 for transpor-tation, food, board and a registra-tion fee. As of press time, it has raised $250.
“I think it would be a really 
great way to represent the Uni-versity of Florida,” Long said. “I’m hoping, praying that this happens.”
Sara Gonzalez, a librarian at 
Marston Science Library and the team’s academic adviser, said the team practices every Wednesday at Marston.
“Of all the academic competi-
tions I‘ve seen, this is one of my favorites, because it requires cre-ativity,” she said.
@merylkornfield 
mkornfield@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator
From left, clockwise: UF Odyssey of the Mind team members Raymond Salzmann, John Michael Timmel, Niell Shikada, 
Shandy Sulen, Camilo Gonzalez, Brian Hayes, Emily Long and Samantha Patten pose for a photo. Odyssey of the Mind is a competition that tasks participants with coming up with creative solutions to a variety of problems before presenting them at local-, state- and world-level competitions.
TRUMP,  from pg 1The messages were an April Fools’ Day challengeBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Proposed Florida building codes may help 
prevent kitchen and laundry fires in the com-
ing years.
The Florida Building Commission voted in 
favor of the proposed 2018 Florida Building 
Code at a meeting at the Hilton UF Conference 
Center on Monday. The new codes, if accept-ed, would require fire prevention equipment to be placed in all kitchens and laundry rooms built after Jan. 1, 2018.
Under the proposal, new buildings would 
need to have arc fault circuit interrupters, which detect arcing in wires and shut down electrical systems before a fire happens, said 
Bryan Holland, the southern regional field rep-
resentative for the National Electrical Manufac-turers Association.
The commission discussed an amendment 
from the Florida Home Builders Association to take kitchens and laundry facilities out of the code.
Douglas Buck, the director of governmental 
affairs for the FHBA, said they submitted the 
amendment to eliminate the cost of installing 
the technology in new homes, which could reach up to $200.
“There’s always a balance between cost 
of the house and what the new requirement does,” he said.
The amendment also outlined concerns 
over the technology shutting off appliances, including refrigerators.
Holland said 29 states — including Georgia, 
South Carolina and Texas — have adopted the proposed changes, and electrical companies 
have an obligation to protect consumers.  
“The state of Florida is a little bit behind,” 
he said.
At the meeting, Florida firefighters and 
burn survivors defended the new code.
Rebekah Johnson was a 27-year-old tak-
ing time off from Santa Fe Community College 
in 2002 when an outlet sparked, causing her house to catch fire.
She and her bed caught fire as she slept, 
Johnson said.
Johnson said she instinctively ran outside 
and dropped to the ground to extinguish the fire. She then went back to search for her 6-year-old golden retriever, Wendy, and her two cats, Simpson and Sammy, none of whom survived.
The house burned down, and Johnson sus-
tained second-degree burns on her face and neck, she said. About 50 percent of her body had third-degree burns.
She then underwent a dozen skin grafts.Now, at the age of 40, Johnson stood in 
front of the Florida Building Commission to uphold the safety proposals.
She said the threat of a refrigerator losing 
power under the new technology is a small risk compared to the devastating effects of a fire.
“I let them know that I would have gladly 
have thrown away a gallon of milk to not have 
to have gone through my injuries,” she said.
While the commission voted to keep kitch-
ens and laundry rooms in the changes, it could 
be challenged in future months, Holland said.
“We’re gonna have to keep an eye on it,” 
he said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgHomes, 
buildings face new safety standardsCAMPUS
Problem-solving club to compete in finals
OTHERS SCHOOLS WHERE 
PEOPLE PARTICIPATED:
• University of Alabama
• University of Minnesota
• Emory University
• University of Michigan
• University of California, 
 Santa BarbaraEmma Green / Alligator Staff
Students pass by a “Trump 16” sign chalked onto the wall of Turlington Hall on Mon-
day. The sign was a part of a nationwide April Fools’ contest organized by entertain-ment website and forum Old Row. IT FEATURES CHILDREN’S 
INSECT LITERATURE.
By Nate Phillips
Alligator Contributing Writer
A 19th century fairytale book, 
opened to a story about a heroic 
black beetle, sits within a glass case at Marston Science Library.
The book is part of “Capturing 
Nature: The Insect World in Art,” a campus-wide exhibit showing how insects are important to different ar-eas of study, including calligraphy, jewelry and children’s literature. The seven displays across the university will be up until July 17.
Andrea Lucky, an assistant re-
search scientist in UF’s entomology 
department, said she coordinated the 
exhibit to teach students about bugs in a new way.
“As an entomologist, I see how in-
sects interact with all aspects of life,” she said. “But most people don’t think about insects in that way.”
Lucky said she hopes people will 
pay more attention to the environ-ment, which is rich with different 
insects.
“Insects are more than pests and 
things that sting you,” she said. 
“They are culturally important.”
Although experts in different 
ﬁ  elds may not notice the role bugs play in their own line of work, Lucky said insects are pivotal within many professions.
Suzan Alteri, the curator of the 
Baldwin Library of Historical Chil-dren’s Literature collection in the Smathers Libraries, said she helped assemble the children’s literature dis-play in Marston.Alteri said the prevalence of bugs 
in children’s literature shows how important the books are, because they teach children about science and the environment.
“It’s always been seen as im-
portant for children to see how the world works,” Alteri said. “Litera-
ture teaches children about animals 
and the importance of treating them kindly.”
Alteri said she began working 
with Lucky on the collection about one year ago. Most of the works on display were published in the 19th and 20th centuries.
“The variety of literature shows 
the different ways insects are repre-sented in society,” she said. “Broad-ening the perspective on bugs can really change the way people view their relationship with the environ-ment.” TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
A collection of Aesop’s Fables lies open to the fable of the gnat and the lion inside Marston Science 
Library as part of a campus-wide exhibit titled “Capturing Nature: The Insect World in Art. ” 
 UF exhibit highlights bug importanceLOCAL
By Sydney Denninger
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new health clinic for people 
with a low income and/or no in-
surance will open for the second 
time Thursday.
The Alachua County Area 
Medical Reserve Corps’ clinic is 
located in the Fearnside Family 
Services Center, located at 3600 
NE 15th St., from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Thursdays.
The Alachua County Health 
Department oversees the clinic, 
which will offer free health servic-
es that are available at any regu-lar urgent care center, said Brad Caron, the director of the Reserve 
Corps.
Caron said most of the clinic’s 
opening-day visitors were fami-
lies, but qualifying students are always welcome.
UF already has several valu-
able services available on cam-pus, Caron said.
He said the clinic offers ser-
vices such as acute episodic care, sexually transmitted infection screenings, physicals, immuniza-tions and preventative care.
“We’re excited about the inﬂ  ux 
of families we’ve had already,” said Caron. “People are loving the idea of a walk-in center they can get services at for free.”
The location will offer dental 
services within the next year, said Natalie Strappy, the director of the Alachua County Public Schools Parent Academy. The women, infants and children nutrition pro-gram will open in the summer.
Alachua’s low-income neigh-
borhoods are recognized as being underserved, and the clinic is a step toward solving this problem, she said.
Strappy said families may also 
lack transportation, but most low-income residents in northeast Gainesville are within walking distance of the clinic.
Fearnside, she said, is known 
for educational programs such as its pre-K Head Start classes. Along with the clinic, the facility also introduced a library and 15 com-
puters that may help families ﬁ  nd 
employment.
The center offers a Parent 
Academy Bus that helps parents earn their GED, Strappy said. The 
bus is also used for the Home In-
struction for Parents of Preschool Youngsters program, run by lead-ers who visit homes and teach 
parents how to educate their chil-
dren.
Caron said the new clinic will 
strengthen Fearnside’s efforts in the community.
“We’re excited about the open-
ing because the beneﬁ  t of a walk-in place for low-income families and people will greatly impact our 
community,” Caron said.Free Gainesville clinic 
in its early stages
“People are loving the idea of 
a walk-in center they can get 
services at for free.”
Brad Caron
director of the Reserve CorpsThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
An overthinking 
epidemic in 
show business
So, the season six ﬁ  nale of “The Walking Dead” happened 
Sunday night. Wasn’t it crazy? Wasn’t it intense? There’s so 
much to discuss about this series, in fact, that AMC Networks 
created a talk show centered around it called “Talking Dead.” 
You all probably know this, because the talk show has come on just after the most recent episode of “The Walking Dead” since the premiere of season two in 2011. AMC has copy-pasted this 
formula a few times: “Talking Saul” parallels “Better Call Saul” 
and “Talking Bad” paralleled “Breaking Bad.” The network’s got a knack for creating whole subcultures around these shows, which is really a double-edged sword.
On Monday, the season ﬁ  nale was the talk of the town. And 
this kind of communion is great; people bonding over art is part of the reason this art exists. This happens often with shows like “The Walking Dead” — we’ve all seen the aftermath of particularly shocking episodes of “House of Cards,” “Empire” 
and “Game of Thrones.” These talk shows exist to incite discus-
sion and build hype, which returns a more loyal and expansive fan base.
But, with the season ﬁ  nale of “The Walking Dead,” fans 
were outraged at the cliffhanger. Viewers now have to wait un-
til season seven in October to have closure. But at whom are we 
viewers outraged?
While we love seeing the cast and crew express love for their 
work of art, we at the Alligator can’t help but feel pulled away 
from our favorite realities when we tune into these talk shows. 
It was a bit jarring to see Beth die in season ﬁ  ve and have her actress, Emily Kinney, hop enthusiastically, and very much alive, onto the set of “Talking Dead” immediately after. We love the work the cast and crew do, but these talk shows have the 
potential to remove us from the reality we got so invested in 
the ﬁ  rst place. We reﬂ  ect that removal in how we discuss these shows among ourselves. All too often, we ask questions like, “Who’s going to get killed off next?” They’re easy questions to 
ask, and they let us exercise our creativity as we conjure up our 
own fantasies of how the story will unfold. But when we ask these questions, we’re treating the narrative as a production instead of considering the characters or the world in which they live; instead, we’re considering the writers.
We treat the writers as the ones responsible for deaths and 
major events. And while that’s technically true, as an audience our suspension of disbelief allows us to embrace the production as a living, breathing world — if we suspend our disbelief, then 
we should be blaming the characters as the ones responsible.
There is so much attention called to the fact that these are 
shows with production values and actors, rather than narra-
tive experiences with plot twists and grim realities. The writers, directors, producers, actors and crew of “The Walking Dead” 
work to create a world that feels real enough for us to accept 
and indulge in. We suspect the last thing they’d want is for their audience to throw that immersion to the wind in exchange for discussion and insight on actors’ lives.
Instead of dissecting a show and its cast bit by bit, we’ll sit 
back and enjoy the show how we feel it was meant to be en-joyed. It is entertainment, after all.Reread an old book, learn something about yourself
In the season-one ﬁ  nale of “Master of 
None,” Aziz Ansari’s character, Dev, stands in the middle of a bookstore clutching a copy of “The Bell Jar.” Faced with a seemingly unending variety of life 
choices, each taking him on a drastically dif-ferent path, Dev has exhausted every source of advice and looks to the Sylvia Plath novel as a last-ditch effort. Ansari’s voice can be heard reading some of Plath’s most painfully poignant lines: “I saw my life branching out before me like the green ﬁ  g tree in the story. From the tip of every branch, like a fat purple ﬁ  g, a wonderful future beckoned and winked. One ﬁ  g was a 
husband and a happy home and children, and another 
ﬁ  g was a famous poet and another ﬁ  g was a brilliant professor, and another ﬁ  g was Ee Gee, the amazing edi-tor, and another ﬁ  g was Europe and Africa and South America.”
Images from Dev’s life, both real and imagined, ﬂ  ood 
the screen, each representing a journey with its unique ending. He reads on: “I saw myself sitting in the crotch of this ﬁ  g tree, starving to death, just because I couldn’t 
make up my mind which of the ﬁ  gs I would choose. I 
wanted each and every one of them, but choosing one meant losing all the rest, and, as I sat there, unable to decide, the ﬁ  gs began to wrinkle and go black, and, one by one, they plopped to the ground at my feet.” Dev closes the book and resolves to make a decision, any decision.
As the literary favorite of this columnist and every 
other introspective female English major, “The Bell Jar” 
was an unexpected but nonetheless appropriate choice 
for a series that goes above and beyond at capturing the nuances of life at 20-something years old. Originally published in 1963, the same year Plath ended her life after a battle with depression, “The Bell Jar” strings together semi-autobiographical events with Plath’s re-ﬂ  ections on her deteriorating mental state with striking clarity. For a 53-year-old novel, it has an astoundingly modern voice, lending to its relentless critical acclaim.
Having ﬁ  rst read this novel at the peak of 
my teenage angst in high school, my 16- year-old self had an entirely different conception 
of the protagonist, Esther Greenwood, as she 
navigated the cult of domesticity in the ‘50s. I focused mainly on the novel’s environmental elements at the time, scofﬁ  ng at the societal expectations and dreading my own ascent into “womanhood.” It was my ﬁ  rst introduc-tion to anything mildly resembling a feminist 
perspective, and I ate it up.
Five years passed, and I found myself peeling Plath 
off my bookshelf yet again, this time for an actual class. I don’t have the opportunity to read a lot of books twice, mostly due to my constant inundation with readings for my major, but I wasn’t expecting the novel to give me anything new. I recalled the basic narrative arc of the story and planned on ﬁ  nishing it within a few days.
What I wasn’t expecting was that I would take away 
an entirely new message from a book I praised as one of my favorites. The societal implications of the narrative 
faded to the background, revealing Esther Greenwood’s 
anxieties in the face of adulthood. Esther could have been anyone in my close circle of friends, with her con-ﬂ  icting impulses to both conform to and rebel against expectations. Her inner dialogue as she confronts her paralyzing fear of choosing and adhering to a single life path could have come straight from my mouth. Hell, even her battle with ﬁ  nding a topic for her honors thesis is a mirror image of mine.
Just like Ansari in the bookstore scene, “The Bell 
Jar” didn’t tell me anything I didn’t already know. If anything, it proved to me the old adage of how well books can serve as a benchmark for your own personal growth. So dust off that neglected favorite, and maybe you’ll learn something about yourself in the process.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Readers, I’d like you to 
know I was followed just yesterday by members of 
the #StopMichael move-
ment. I could feel them 
lurking behind me for 10 minutes before I turned back to see the 
entirety of The Really Indepen-
dent Florida Crocodile editorial staff. They satirized the daylights out of me. No dead horse went unbeaten that day.
As such, I’ve made further strides to 
change my appearance. My beard is now shaven. Gone. Cleaved off in one fell swoop with a butcher’s knife. Good luck 
ﬁ  nding me now, radicals.
What makes a cheap joke? What elic-
its a cheap laugh? We can all agree cheap 
jokes exist, right? What kinds of jokes rob us of our artistic integrity? Jerry Seinfeld 
would argue profanity taints a joke. Pro-
fanity and sex are inherently funny be-cause they’re taboo, and Seinfeld says a co-median should earn that laugh; you don’t 
have to rely on swearing in your routines. 
Meanwhile, comedians like Lenny Bruce and George Carlin have made careers and deﬁ  ned generations with profanity, as I discussed last week. Rodney Dangerﬁ  eld’s 
signature comedy album “No Respect” is 
full of profanity — and it’s masterful. Give it a listen. It’s dope.
From 1976 to 1984, cartoonist Stuart 
Hample wrote the syndicated comic strip, “Inside Woody Allen,” which mimicked Woody Allen’s style of comedy. 
Throughout its syndication, Allen would 
advise Hample to never pander to the au-
dience. Allen wanted to carve a niche in 
the comics, but Hample’s publishers want-ed more mainstream, broad humor. Allen pushed for highbrow esoteric references. 
He pushed for frank discussion of death 
and sex. He pushed Hample to change the medium of the comic strip. And as a result, no one’s ever heard of “Inside Woody Al-len.”
Allen proposes the notion that “cheap 
jokes” stem from uninteresting content. If the joke is about something elementary, it’s not a clever joke.
Seinfeld proposes something different, 
though. He suggests that “cheap jokes” stem from poor structure: How do you tell the joke? 
If you have to rely on profanity to cover 
up a poorly paced joke, it’s not a very clev-er joke. If you can speak eloquently and let every word contribute to the punchline, then the joke is clever and stimulating.
In the past, I have also addressed the 
duality of a joke’s content and a joke’s structure. They are two separate entities. A joke can look good on paper, but if it’s delivered 
or paced poorly, it’s no longer 
funny. Conversely, we’ve all met folks who we deem “naturally funny” because they possess a 
certain charisma.
Where was I going with all 
this?
So, generic content and traditional 
structure create cheap comedy. Can we deﬁ  ne both “generic content” and “tradi-
tional structure”? Let’s try. Well, generic content so far seems to be taboo subjects: sex, drugs and profanity. This is the kind of 
stuff we all laugh at because we all live in a 
society that deems them taboo. 
What about “traditional structure”? 
Well, we all know one traditional joke 
structure: the knock-knock joke. 
But more importantly, when I think of a 
cheap joke I think of “shock value.” 
I think we’re all familiar with what 
that means and how its connotation dif-
ferentiates it from “subversion of expecta-tion.” Shock value is the middle-schooler who swears on the playground because it’s edgy. Shock value is every Seth Rogen movie ever. Shock value is pushing societal 
boundaries without advocating a positive 
message. 
Shock value is the epitome of a cheap 
joke.
How did this take 600 words? I feel pret-
ty foolish. But, I’m glad I answered that. I feel like any schmuck on the street could have more eloquently stated the deﬁ  nition of a cheap joke, though. Good thing I’m not 
a schmuck. Right?
Michael Smith is a fresh UF comical 
engineering man. His column runs in 12 
countries and is banned for frank discus-sion of Michael Smith in 26 of them.How cheap are inexpensive jokes?Column
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgOver the last decade, phrases like “go green” and “reduce your carbon 
footprint” have become 
ﬁ  rmly embedded in our 
lexicon, just as Earth Day has be-come an annual celebration. As 
an environmental advocate, this 
couldn’t make me happier. I’ve been inspired to see people switch to efﬁ  cient light bulbs, recycle and use canvas shopping bags instead of paper or 
plastic. Nearly two-thirds of Americans say 
they recycle on a regular basis compared to a quarter of Americans in the 1990s.
Yet, while more people have come to rec-
ognize the carbon footprint cost associated with everyday behaviors like driving cars, a leading cause of environmental degradation has remained largely hidden: factory farm-ing.
According to the U.N., animal agri-
business plays a prominent role in climate change. Wherever factory farms operate, there is sure to be environmental degrada-
tion. Untreated manure from hog farms 
runs off into our rivers, streams and other waterways, killing ﬁ  sh and causing algal blooms. When this waste inevitably reaches our oceans, it creates what scientists call 
“dead zones” — areas of the ocean where all 
life dies off or moves away due to a lack of oxygen. The damage done to our planet by animal agribusiness is well documented and 
ever increasing; as our population grows, so, 
too, does our demand for meat.
The good news is that more and more 
people are connecting what we put on our plates with our impact on the planet. The 
result is that we, as a nation, are enjoying 
more meat-free meals as a way to help our-selves and the planet that sustains us.
Since its inception in 2003, Meatless Mon-
day has mushroomed. The idea is simple: enjoy a holiday from meat one day a week. It’s a simple solution with manifold beneﬁ  ts. According to the Environmental Defense Fund, “If every American skipped one meal 
of chicken per week and substituted vegeta-
bles and grains… the carbon dioxide savings would be the same as taking more than half a million cars off of U.S. roads.” A Carnegie 
Mellon University study found we’d each do 
more good for the planet if we ate meat-free just one day a week than we would if we ate exclusively local foods.
There are even more compelling reasons: 
farm animals, like the dogs and cats we con-sider members of our families, are individu-als with personalities, needs and the ability to suffer. Yet on industrial factory farms, 
they’re often treated like mere units on a 
production line with little consideration for their suffering.
And, of course, eating more 
plant-based foods and fewer an-
imal-based foods is good for our 
health, too. The American Heart Association recommends “substi-tuting some of the meat in your 
diet with vegetables” as a simple 
way to reduce the risk of heart disease, the leading cause of death for U.S. citizens of most ethnici-
ties. Even former California governor Arnold 
Schwarzenegger has touted the virtues of 
meatless eating, pointing to ﬁ  tness celebrity and vegetarian Bill Pearl, who, according to Arnold, is “one of the greatest bodybuilders 
ever.”
Equally exciting is the new world of food 
one begins to explore when enjoying more 
meatless meals. From exotic fare like Indian and Ethiopian dishes to familiar favorites like 
bean burritos or spaghetti with marinara and 
vegetables, there’s no shortage of options.
Perhaps the easiest — and tastiest — way 
to improve one’s diet is by practicing the three R’s: “reducing” or “replacing” con-
sumption of animal products and “reﬁ  ning” 
one’s diet by choosing products from sources that have higher animal welfare standards.
Small changes multiplied by millions 
make a big difference. Each of us, by pledg-ing this Earth Day to participate in Meatless Monday, can make a tremendous difference for the world and its inhabitants all year long.
Kristie Middleton is senior food policy di-
rector for The Humane Society of the United States.Meatless Mondays: one small stepGuest ColumnLetters to the Editor
Israel isn’t an “apartheid state”
I am deeply disturbed by Jordan MacK-
enzie’s column from Wednesday, “The 
meaning of the word ‘apartheid.’” First, I 
am always amazed when a Floridian criti-cizes Israel, given how Floridians live and work on land stolen by force from Native 
Americans who were “ethnically cleansed.”
Second, to call Israel an “apartheid 
state” is a patent falsehood. I do not dispute 
the horrors of the occupation. The present right-wing government does nothing to 
solve the problem. Israel is a democracy, 
and sooner or later the people will elect a government that does deal with the issue. However, to defame and slander Israel by calling it an “apartheid state” not only 
twists the facts on the ground, but also triv-
ializes the real apartheid practiced in South Africa.  
How can Israel be called an “apartheid 
state” when Israeli Arab citizens sit as judg-es in Israel’s courts, including the Supreme Court?  Is it apartheid when Arab students attend all of Israel’s major universities and sit side-by-side with Jewish students?  
When Israeli Arab citizens are police ofﬁ  -
cers in Israel? When all Arab citizens of Is-rael vote and sit in the Israeli Knesset (Par-liament) in a large voting bloc?  
Is it apartheid when Arab and Jewish 
doctors work together in Israeli hospitals? When the Druze serve with distinction in the Israel Defense Forces as ofﬁ  cers and enlistees in combat and other roles? When 
Arabs and Jews travel together on the same 
public transportation and — in some cases such as the major Israeli city of Haifa — live in the same neighborhoods and buildings?
When the terror stops and the Arab/
Muslim world recognizes this tiny state as the ancestral home of the Jewish people, there will no longer be any need for an “oc-cupation” or stringent security measures. I realize it is not fashionable to defend Israel 
on today’s college campuses. However, I 
always thought education included an hon-est rendition of the facts. Criticizing Israeli policy is fair game. Demonizing Israel by 
slandering and defaming the country with a 
word like “apartheid” is cheating students by telling them less than half of the true story.   
Harold Cohen
Retired Florida circuit judge now 
residing in High Springs, Florida
Kristie 
Middleton
Speaking Out
“Shock value is every 
Seth Rogen movie 
ever. Shock value 
is pushing societal 
boundaries without 
advocating a positive 
message. Shock value 
is the epitome of a 
cheap joke.”“Small changes 
multiplied by millions 
make a big diference. 
Each of us, by 
pledging this Earth 
Day to participate 
in Meatless Monday, 
can make a 
tremendous diference 
for the world and its 
inhabitants all year 
long.”By Rachel Surette
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF club is raising money to 
send students to a ceramics confer-
ence.
Handbuilt Or Thrown Clay started 
its semesterly clay sale on the Plaza 
of the Americas on Monday. It will 
continue today. The money will go toward sending about 15 students to the 2017 National Council on Educa-tion of the Ceramic Arts conference, which will be held in March.
The club will send slightly fewer 
students than this year because the conference is in Portland, Oregon, 
said Paige Ward, the club’s presi-
dent. The 2016 competition was in Kansas City, Missouri.
The club is selling items including 
dishes and vases, she said. They’re hoping to raise about $2,500.
Half of the money from sales goes 
back to the artists who created the works, while the other half goes to the club, Ward, a UF ceramics mas-ter’s student, said.
Most pieces cost between $5 to 
$80, and the price is determined by the artist, she said. Pieces come from class projects and students who en-joy sculpting.
“We put the sale on to get our 
work out there to the public,” the 27-year-old said.
Stephanie Wilhelm, a UF ce-
ramics master’s student, said she 
brought about 50 pieces to sell, rang-
ing from $25 to $75.
She started preparing for the sale 
during Winter Break, the 30-year-old said.
“Just talking to people and see-
ing them buy things and be excited about the work is a really good feel-ing.”8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016
Emma Green/Alligator Staff
Erin Wagner, 21, examines ceramic cups on the Plaza of the Ameri-
cas at the Handbuilt or Thrown Clay Spring Sale on Monday. The UF art junior said she admired the work of Stephanie Wilhelm, who she said worked with bodies a lot.
LOCAL
By Janiece Sebris
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two free workshops will teach Alachua 
County residents how to properly can food 
today.
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences will host its eighth annual work-shop at the Alachua County Extension Of-fice, located at  2800 NE 39th Ave., today 
from 1 p.m. to 3:30 p.m and again from 6 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
Both sessions are free, but a condensed 
information packet will be available for $3, 
said Brenda Williams, an IFAS Family and Consumer Sciences extension agent.
The main goal, Williams said, is to help 
guests produce a safe product.
“We don’t always can like grandmother 
did, because we’ve learned things,” she said.
The workshop will also provide tips on how to make jams, jellies and pickles, ac-cording to a press release.
Williams said she hopes to familiarize 
people with both the boiling-water and steam-pressure methods of canning food.Using either method without proper 
guidance or tools could result in the for-
mation of deadly bacteria, said Amarat Si-
monne, an IFAS professor and food safety specialist.
She said attendees can look forward to 
learning from Williams, who has years of 
experience in food preservation.
“Canning your own food can be very 
satisfying,” she said. “You’re taking the 
fruit of your labor and saving it properly.”Workshop to teach Alachua residents safe food canning
THE ORANGE IS 
FLORIDA’S NO. 1 
AGRICULTURAL CROP .
By J.W. Glass
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dylan Farr said a disease is 
ravaging his family’s orange grove.
“Thanks to greening, you 
lose your trees in three to four years. There is no cure, there is nothing stopping it, so it’s rav-
aging the orange trees,” said 
Farr, a 22-year-old UF food and resource economics senior, said.
The Matheson History Muse-
um opened an exhibit Monday 
to remind visitors about one of 
Florida’s vital resources, said Rebecca Fitzsimmons, a curator and archivist for the museum.
The orange is Florida’s No. 1 
agricultural crop, Fitzsimmons said, but few residents consider its importance the to Florida’s past and future.
However, the orange is still a 
popular image in depictions of a tropical paradise, Fitzsimmons said.
“It’s become part of this my-
thology of what Florida is, and you have this sort of ‘fruit of the gods’ that it gets referred to,” 
she said.
She said the exhibit chroni-
cles the orange plant’s humble 
beginning in St. Augustine, 
where Spanish travelers grew 
the continent’s first orange or-chards.
The exhibit also features an 
exposé on what Fitzsimmons called the “dark side” of the cit-rus industry — the period dur-
ing which farmers used slave 
labor during 1950s.
Asian psyllid bugs are now 
infecting orange plants and “mummifying” trees, but more 
education and research may 
lead to a solution, Fitzsimmons said.
“There are certain root stalks 
that can still be infected with cit-rus greening, but they can fight it off,” she said. “Even though they have the disease, they still bear fruit.” Museum highlights 
Florida’s declining citrus industryUF ceramics fundraises for conference
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Burglars have targeted rural homes in 
four counties, grabbing guns, jewelry and 
cash before escaping in broad daylight.
More than 20 similar incidents have 
been reported to sheriff’s offices in Alach-ua, Marion, Levy and Citrus counties over the last four months, according to county 
officials.Since mid-January, property crime de-
tectives with the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office and other departments have worked 
to find an answer, sheriff’s office spokes-man Art Forgey said.
Deputies from Levy County reported 
eight cases, and those from Citrus County reported 12, according to their respective websites.
Forgey said he will not have a definitive 
number of burglary incidents until all of the forensic evidence is complete.
He said detectives believe one group of 
burglars is behind all of the cases.
“The burglaries within the other coun-
ties are very similar to some that we have experienced and therefore we believe they 
are being committed by the same people,” 
Forgey wrote in an email.
Anyone with information on the bur-
glaries in Alachua County can receive a reward of up to $1,000 by calling Crime 
Stoppers at 352-372-7867.
Citrus County Sheriff Jeffrey Dawsy said 
a murder Thursday night may be related to the burglaries.
The suspected killer broke into a home 
in Dunnellon, a rural Citrus County city, 
and killed the homeowner, Dawsy said during a press conference Monday.
“That homicide had a lot of similarities 
to the burglaries that we’ve had through-out our community and possibly to the sur-rounding communities,” he said. 
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgUnsolved burglaries surging in Alachua, neighboring counties
More than 20 incidents reported“Canning your own food can be very 
satisfying. You’re taking the fruit of 
your labor and saving it properly.”
Amarat Simonne
IFAS professor and food safety specialist
“Thanks to greening, you 
lose your trees in three to 
four years. There is no cure, 
there is nothing stopping it, 
so it’s ravaging the orange 
trees.”
Dylan Farr
UF food and resource 
economics seniorTUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Monica Humphries
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new UF exhibit is showing stu-
dents failure is necessary.
“Necessary Failures,” an exhibit 
at the College of the Arts’ Gary R. 
Libby Gallery, opened Friday. It will be on display until Thursday, said Laura Denzer, a UF painting 
and drawing graduate student who 
helped organize the exhibition.
As part of the exhibit, a pile of 
stenciling tape, which is used to outline work in paintings, is on dis-play.
Lisa Iglesias, an assistant profes-
sor at UF’s School of Art + Art His-tory, and Almaz Wilson, a UF mas-ter’s of fine arts student, also helped organize it.
Iglesias said the idea for the 
show came from a seminar in which she teaches artists failure is necessary in finding success. 
“What is most important to me, 
in regards to the seminar and exhi-bition, is the spirit of taking risks and experimentation,” she said.Denzer said initially students 
were hesitant to display their art 
under the title “Necessary Failures.”
“But they aren’t failures by acci-
dent,” she said. “It’s all about think-
ing conceptually.”
Iglesias said visitors have liked 
the work.
“There’s so much that’s avail-
able for the viewer to jump into,” she said.
On Friday, two other exhibits 
opened at the college. Seven mas-ter’s students presented their art-work at the University Gallery for the exhibit “Master of Fine Arts 
Thesis Exhibition II.”
Brightly colored canvases were 
scattered on a wall in the gallery. 
Twenty-eight canvases, painted 
with patterns, shapes and an array 
of colors, filled another wall. The exhibit is on display until April 16.
The third exhibit is located in the 
Grinter Gallery and is comprised of 
ceramics created by UF professor 
emeritus Ira Winarsky. This exhibit will be on display until Aug. 31.
“The works in this room depend 
on each other to create meaning,” Denzer said.Three new art exhibits open at the College of the Arts
CAMPUS
By Cecilia Mazanec
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will become filmmakers to-
day.
This year, the university will participate in 
Campus MovieFest, the world’s largest stu-
dent film festival, for the first time. Starting 
today, students who registered will pick up a 
camera, sound equipment, a MacBook with Adobe Creative Cloud, a hard drive and a tri-pod from the Reitz Union.
For the festival, student teams submit films 
up to five minutes long, said Alex McGill, a promotions manager for Campus MovieFest. There is no limit to how many students can be on a team. Reitz Union Board Entertainment 
worked to bring the festival to campus, the 
23-year-old said.
“Our whole purpose is to give students a 
voice and give students a platform for their voice,” she said.
On Monday, filming will stop and equip-
ment will be collected, McGill said.
The top 16 films will be shown in the Re-
itz Union Auditorium on April 14, she said. A 
panel of eight to 15 students, faculty and staff 
will decide which films are played. The top four films will be sent to the national competi-tion in Atlanta this summer, she said.Eddie Datz, a UF theatre freshman, said 
he plans on filming Florida Players, a student-run theater company. He said he and a friend 
will make a behind-the-scenes film about the 
group. The film will double as a promotional video for his upcoming play, “In the Heights.”
Will Hsiung, a UF digital arts and sciences 
senior, said he heard about the festival in Fall 2015 and pitched the idea to UF’s Student Sen-ate. While he doesn’t know what he wants to film yet, he wants to make a drama with action, the 21-year-old said. He said he’s hap-
py the festival gives students a chance to try 
something they might not ordinarily do.
“There’s just so much out there,” he said. 
“So much to learn.”UF hosts student movie festival
UF AND GAINESVILLE ARE 
SPREADING AWARENESS, 
EDUCATING THE COMMUNITY.
By Brooke Steinberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
April is Sexually Transmitted Disease 
Awareness Month, and Alachua County is 
making its annual efforts to educate the 
community.
Prevention methods include open 
conversations with sexual partners and 
health providers about all possible risks, 
said Roger Dolz, the program administra-
tor at the Alachua County Health Depart-ment.
“The best ways to prevent STDs are ab-
stinence; making sure that you get tested; 
making sure you have protected sex and 
use condoms properly,” he said. “And if you choose not to (wear condoms), then make sure you’re in a monogamous rela-
tionship.”
Abstinence, Dolz said, is the only 
100-percent-effective way to prevent an 
STD.
A slight increase of STD cases in Alach-
ua County may be the result of increased testing in the community, Dolz said.
He said the health department part-
nered with UF’s Mobile Outreach Clinic to offer STD and STI screenings to the com-munity.
Once a patient comes in for an STD 
screening at any of the department’s Gainesville locations, they are also pro-vided with counseling and education on the topic, he said.
“We spread awareness through all 
of our efforts,” Dolz said. “It’s not just screening.”
Mark Tracz, an employee at Gator-
Well, said STD Awareness Month is about teaching residents what STDs are and how they are spread.
Educating people about available re-
sources is equally important, said Tracz, a 
UF family, youth and community sciences 
senior.
Tracz said he also hopes people real-
ize STDs can be contracted without hav-ing sex, such as making contact with an open wound.
“You have to be cautious about what 
your body is doing and also where it is,” he said.STDs in spotlight this monthExhibits At A Glance:
“Necessary Failures”
Gary R. Libby Gallery
Ends Thursday
“Master of Fine Arts 
Thesis Exhibition II”
University Gallery
Ends April 16
“Iridescent Landscapes: 
Selections from the Ira 
Winarsky Collection”
Grinter Gallery
Ends August 31
Categories for awards given at 
each Campus MovieFest:
• Documentary
• Acting
• Directing
• Writing
• Cinematography
• Editing
• Special effectsIt will be on display until ThursdayTUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
Two BR, 1BA, CHA, W/D. Fully furnished $1300 Mo. Summer or fall semester. Utilities inc. Busline. Unfurnished w/utils $750. SW Gainesville on Tower Road. (352) 284 3873     4-5-16-2-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
4-20-15-72-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    4-6-16-10-2
BLOCKS FROM UF
3/1, 4/2 & 5/3. From $1400/mo
Reserved parking. Pet friendly
352-359-5584    dalyproperties.com    4-20-
16-13-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery DriversClosing drivers can earn $100+ each night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
4-12-15-14Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
LIVE IN HOUSE MGR
For a co-ed Co-Op near UF in Gainesville. 
Wanted single mature adult, NO UNDER 
GRADUATES MAY APPLY, ideal for PHD 
student or Veteran student, with several years of graduate study ahead. Must enjoy working with students, responsible, diplo -
matic and assertive. Position starts in May. 
Compensation - bedroom, utilities, parking 
& meals included in exchange for housing responsibilities and monthly stipend. Email cover letter and resume to apply.clo1931@
gmail.com. Background check required, 
must be bondable, NO PETS. We will email 
you a complete job description upon receiv-ing your information.    3-29-16-5-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDEDFull time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
Prep Cook / DishwasherFull-time for large sorority house. Experience is a plus, but will train the right individual. $9.00/hr. to start with the raise after proba -
tion period. Must be able to start Aug. 8, hours M-F 11 to 7. Background check re-quired. Email resume and cover letter to frat-mgmt@gmail.com.    4-12-16-10-14
Chef/Cook –Begin 8/15/16 - 1 person kitchen/ must be able to order food in quantities needed, plan menus, prepare and cook lunch and dinner from scratch for average 80 per day. Manage the kitchen from A to Z. Need to have posi-tive attitude, imagination, and creativity, not stubborn/flexible, Safeserv Certified/will pay for class and test if needed. Background check, alcohol, drug, health checks will be run. Email resume or letter as to experience with salary history. No salary history = no call back. Starting salary $500 per wk. frat-mgmt@gmail.com    4-12-16-10-14
Oak Hall School is hiring Summer Day Camp Counselors. Visit www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment for details and application information. Group interview on 4/16 at 9 AM.    4-15-16-12-14
Master Builder CampIs Hiring For The Summer!Science/Design/Arts/Tech play-based learn -
ing day camp seeking dynamic and energet -
ic counselors to join our team. For more info: www.masterbuildercamp.com    4-8-5-1412 Autos
ACROSS
1 Riffles (through)
6 Kitty cries
10 Like some
chatter or threats
14 Birdbath buildup15 Plant “pet”16 Bellyache17 *Game with a
barrel-throwinggorilla
19 “Flip or Flop”
cable channel
20 Dueling sword21 Stare unsubtly
22 Slammer
23 Wreck
completely
25 “Moi?”27 __ Lingus28 Reason for an R
rating
31 “I __ thought of
that”
34 Place to
overnight
35 Crooner Cole36 Stat that’s better
when it’s lower
37 *Lock insert41 Expressive rock
genre
42 Architect 
Maya __
43 Serengeti grazer44 Crease-resistant
fabric
46 Sewer system
entry points
49 Back when
50 Alpine warble
51 Art form profiled
in thedocumentary
“Between the
Folds”
55 Joint sometimes
twisted
57 Fishing decoy59 Have __: be
connected
60 “Are you for __?!”
61 *Karl Marx opus63 Motown’s Marvin64 Prefix meaning
“all”
65 Singer Baker66 Call router: Abbr.67 Bread served
with chicken tikkamasala
68 Go to pot ... or a
phonetic hint tothe answers tostarred cluesDOWN
1 Stored in the hold
2 Become running
mates?
3 Dancer de Mille4 Skin bronzing
from a bottle
5 “Understand?”6 Jim of “Wide
World of Sports”
7 Self-help website
8 [Don’t take me
too seriously]
9 Hang loosely
10 Announcement
from the foyer
11 *Temporary
housing for Fido
12 Behind schedule
13 Green-eyed
monster
18 “Son of
Frankenstein”
role
22 D.C. insider
24 No longer
working: Abbr.
26 Sharpen28 Computer
invader
29 Hunter’s garb, for
short
30 Thames school31 Captain’s
position32 Opera highlight
33 *“The Court
Jester” star
38 Stare rudely at
39 “He’s a priest,”
not a beast, per
Ogden Nash
40 Bear or Berra45 Propecia rival47 Shout out48 Glorifying verse
49 Word after work
or play51 Pest control
company
52 Bit of slapstick
53 Sporty Mazda54 Cavity filler
55 Jason’s vessel
56 Half-moon tide58 Midshipman’s sch.61 Ex-Dodger
managerMattingly
62 __ Thai: rice
noodle dish
By C.C. Burnikel©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/05/1604/05/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, April 5, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016
Seeking responsible, hard-working student 
for part-time work in land maintenance on weekends. $10/hr. Contact matt@knellinger -
law.com or 352-591-3000     4-8-5-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Want to Earn Some Extra $$$
Kelly Services is looking for individuals to 
work a 10 day project April 19-28th as couri -
ers/messengers in a hospital setting. Day, 
Evening and Overnight shifts are available 
starting at $10/HR. Apply online at http://qrs.
ly/gt52jb2 or call 352-335-7800 TODAY!   
 4-13-7-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Graduation Photos by Gator Alum
$150 for 1 hour session on UF campus30-40 edited digital imageswww.facebook/BoriginalArt.comCaryn Ruano (954)629-4861    4-7-16-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love Front Office Assistant for busy Dermatology practice in Gainesville. 3-4 days/week.  Duties include scheduling appointments, checking patients in and out, coding and posting charges, collecting payments, an-swering phones and other duties.  Looking for a professional individual with good com-puter and interpersonal skills. Experience in a medical office desired, but willing to train motivated individual. Ideal position for recent graduate or student interested in healthcare business career.  Salary with benefits avail -
able. Send cover letter and resume to daop -
portunity@aol.com    4-11-16-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
 15 Services 15 Services 20 Events/NoticesHeadline
Story description Pg#
Freshman Sam Horsfield 
continues to lead the Florida men's golf team.Read the story on pg. 15.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Villanova wins NCAA Championship
Villanova forward Kris Jenkins made a buzzer-beating three pointer to 
defeat North Carolina 77-74 in the men's NCAA basketball championship game on Monday night. The win marked the Wildcats' second national title in school history.By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
As PA announcer Buck Jones read off 
Robin Reynolds’ list of accomplishments 
over James G. Pressly Stadium's speakers on Saturday, the senior walked out and pointed to the crowd.
They gave her a standing ovation. Surrounded by her family and with a 
huge smile plastered on her face, she gave her coach of four years, Mike Holloway, a hug, and took in her last Pepsi Florida Relay as a Gator.“Coming in freshman year, I always 
wanted to run for UF. My parents both graduated (here),” Reynolds said. “It was just like, ‘Dang, four years went by so fast.' I was like, ‘This is my last go-round and I want to be remembered.’”
Holloway, who recognized Reynolds and 
15 of her teammates during the Senior Day ceremony on Saturday, had a difficult time keeping his emotions at bay during the cer-emony.
“Senior Day is always very emotional. 
For some reason, this group tugs at my heart. (They’re) a bunch of good athletes, a bunch of good people, their families are incredible, so that was very emotional to-day,” Holloway said on Saturday.  “Every-body that came up there has a special place with me. It was hard, but I didn’t cry.”
After the ceremony ended and as the 
alumni section of the crowd chanted “Go Gators,” Reynolds, along with her 4x400-meter relay teammates Kyra Jefferson, Claudia Francis and Sharrika Barnett, stepped onto the Percy Beard Track and made school history.
As Francis, the team's anchor, sprinted 
past the finish line, Reynolds looked at the scoreboard.
What she saw — a time of 3:26.28 and 
a new Florida school record in the 4x400 — Reynolds reflects on Florida career on Senior Day
pitching staff
FRESHMEN BRADY SINGER AND 
JACKSON KOWAR RELIEVED A.J. 
PUK ON SUNDAY.
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Brady Singer and Jackson Kowar became 
the next men up.
When starter A.J. Puk left Sunday’s game 
after just 10 pitches due to back spasms, Flor-
ida coach Kevin O’Sullivan had to piece his pitching together.
He called on his pair of dynamic freshmen 
arms in Singer and Kowar.
Though the two were knocked around for 
seven runs in 4.2 innings, the innings they ate up were important in UF’s 10-7 win over Texas A&M.
And they learned a valuable lesson: loca-
tion, location, location.
“They’re freshmen,” O’Sullivan said. “The 
value of locating, they’ll figure that out. It’s just a learning experience.”
Kowar, Florida’s usual midweek starting 
pitcher, threw 33 pitches Sunday and likely won’t start tonight’s game against Jackson-ville, which begins at 7 at McKethan Stadium.
Instead, another Gator will have to serve 
as the next man up, just as Singer and Kowar did Sunday.
“This is one of those games somebody else 
is gonna have to step up who hasn’t pitched in a while,” O’Sullivan said.
O’Sullivan said tonight’s contest against 
the Dolphins may be another pitching puzzle.UF taking 
next-man-up approach with 
FOOTBALL
By Graham Hack
Sports Writer
Finishing on defense, so-so quar-
terback play and explosive plays 
from both the backfield and receiv-ers highlighted Florida’s scrimmage on Friday night from coach Jim 
McElwain’s perspective.
With less than one week of 
Spring practices remaining before the Spring game and the gap until 
summer workouts, the Gators are getting their last few opportunities to work on their craft and impress the 
coaches.
One unit that took advantage of 
Friday’s scrimmage was the defen-
sive line, which caught the eye of McElwain.
“I thought our defensive line 
did an outstanding job of finishing plays,” he said. “I thought their en-ergy and effort was outstanding.”
The quarterbacks, on the other 
hand, weren’t at the same level.
All four signal callers had their 
bright moments during the scrim-mage, the coach said, but none did anything overly impressive or per-formed well throughout the session.
“Quarterbacks, eh, just OK,” 
McElwain said. “I mean not great, not bad, just kind of keep working on the consistency piece there.”However, that lack of consisten-
cy didn’t prevent Florida from put-ting together some big plays, a good chunk of which came out of the 
backfield through both rushing and 
pass catching.
But a few wideouts made an im-
pact, too.
“Receiver wise, Dre Massey, I 
think him coming back has had a re-ally good impact, he had four critical big plays in the scrimmage,” McEl-wain said. “I mentioned Fulwood, which we know he has that ability.”
Explosive plays have been one 
of the areas of weakness for Florida 
over the past few seasons, and it’s 
been an area of emphasis for McEl-wain this spring.
“It makes such a difference in 
games,” he said.
@graham_hack24 
ghack@alligator.orgExplosive offensive plays highlight second Spring scrimmageJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Robin Reynolds hugs coach Mike Holloway after winning the 400-meter dash during Friday's Pepsi Florida Relays at the 
Percy Beard Track. 
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14 SEE TRACK,  PAGE 14She helped set a UF relay recordBy Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
Last summer, Mike White was 
focused on getting to know his 
players.
Twenty-one wins and 15 losses 
later, White finds himself heading into this offseason feeling confi-dent that it will be more productive than last year's was. 
With one season at Florida un-
der his belt, the coach will be able 
to focus more on basketball and 
more on what his team and his players need to improve on.
But the offseason also means 
saying goodbye to departing play-
ers and welcoming new ones to the 
program. 
White is ready to embrace it all.“I feel like we’ve laid a founda-
tion,” White said. “We understand 
our guys a lot better. They under-
stand my staff and I a lot better. Heading into this offseason, I think everybody is a lot more comfort-
able where we are than where it 
was about 11 months ago when I 
got here.”
Devin Robinson testing NBA 
waters: White said on Monday 
that sophomore forward Devin Robinson is considering declaring 
for the NBA Draft. Robinson was 
home with his family last weekend, 
and White plans to meet with him this week to discuss his options.
Robinson improved his scoring 
average to 9.0 points per game this past season after averaging 6.4 per game as a freshman. His rebounds also improved from 2.8 per game as a freshman to 5.6 as a sopho-more.
“I don’t blame him. Devin’s got 
a very high ceiling. He’s very tal-ented,” White said. “I don’t know whether he declares or not, but I think we’ll find out soon.”
White said he supports any de-
cision Robinson decides to make, but that the team would like Rob-inson to return for a third season.
“I’d like to continue coaching 
him,” White said. “I think he’s got such a high ceiling, and I thought he made a very big jump this year. And I think he could make an equally as big, if not bigger jump next year.”
Young core looking to de-
velop: KeVaughn Allen’s breakout 
freshman season put a target on his back, one White said will only con-tinue to grow as he gets older.
Allen scored 11.6 points per 
game this season and proved him-self as a legitimate scoring threat. But White said Allen’s shooting percentage and consistency still need to improve.
The freshman’s mental tough-
ness will also need to strengthen, White said, as the young guard will take on an even larger role in next year’s offense as a primary scoring option. Not getting slowed down by changing defenses and being the focal point on offense will be a key to Allen’s development. 
But White isn’t concerned with 
Allen’s ability to score.
“He’s a good shooter and he 
knows he’s a good shooter, and he’s focused right now on trying to become a great shooter,” White said of Allen.
Meanwhile, John Egbunu is still 
recovering from thumb surgery. But once the redshirt sophomore returns to the court, White said this offseason will be extremely important for Egbunu’s growth and development.
Egbunu averaged 11.5 points 
per game this season along with 6.5 rebounds and showed promis-ing signs in the post, but he’s still learning to perfect several aspects of his game, including post moves and paint defense.
“He understands that he’s got a 
chance to be one of the better big guys in this league and have a re-ally big junior year,” White said of Egbunu. “That’s certainly our ex-pectation of him.”Additions and departures: 
Arguably White’s most hopeful project during the offseason will be redshirt freshman Keith Stone, a 6-foot-8 forward from Deerfield Beach. Stone took a redshirt and sat out this season, but White laud-ed the freshman’s progress and his skillset.
“Is he talented? Yes. Does he 
love the gym? Absolutely, more than any guy I know. He lives in the gym. Really skilled, can really score,” White said. “…We expect big things out of him. I expect him to have a big freshman year.”
As of now, Florida has just two 
2016 signees: 6-foot-3 guard Eric Hester and 6-foot-8 forward Dontay Bassett, both from Oldsmar. As of now, the only departure from the roster, besides the senior class, will be redshirt junior DeVon Walker, who will transfer after he graduates this spring.
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016
shocked her.
“To our surprise, soon as Clau-
dia crossed the line we looked at 
the board and shocked ourselves 
to run that time so early,” Reyn-
olds said. “It’s just beautiful be-
cause we can only do bigger and 
better things from here.”
But Reynolds is no stranger 
to breaking school records in the 
event. 
She was the only one on her  
relay team who had also been a part of the team that broke Flor-
ida’s 22-year 4x400 record at the 
2014 Pepsi Florida Relays. 
“It is kind of crazy because I 
wasn’t even expecting that relay to do that,” Reynolds said. “To be a part of both, now No. 1 and No. 2 times in UF school history, it is just great to be a part of. So I’m happy to be a part of the legacy.”
After running her last Pepsi 
Florida Relays with Florida across her chest, Reynolds is looking forward to breaking even more records as the Gators move on to the rest of their outdoor-season schedule.
But, for now, she just wants 
to remember how she felt on her Senior Day.
“I just came out and had fun,” 
Reynolds said. “I can’t ask for anything else.”
@lstaff27 
lstaff@alligator.org
TRACK,  from pg 13Reynolds also broke the 
UF relay record in 2014“We’ll have to piece it togeth-
er,” he said.
 “There are other guys on 
our roster that need to kind of 
contribute. I’m excited to get someone else out there and rally around that guy.”
Although O’Sullivan said he 
wasn’t sure who would start, all signs point to sophomore Scott Moss.
The left-hander, who sports 
a 1.23 ERA and 15 strikeouts through 7.1 innings, started a midweek game before in Florida’s 8-7 win over Eastern Michigan on 
Feb. 24.
Though it is coming off back-
to-back losses, Jacksonville (17-
10) won’t be an easy opponent for No. 1 Florida (27-3).
Led by junior outfielder Austin 
Hays’ .368 clip and eight home runs, the Dolphins are collective-ly hitting .279 this season.UF’s hitters will face freshman 
pitcher Kyle Arjona, who is 2-0 with a 3.00 ERA.
The last time Florida and Jack-
sonville squared off was on April 22, 2014, in which the Dolphins won 3-1 in Gainesville.
And the 
biggest factor 
in this game 
might simply 
be home field advantage.
The Gators 
are a perfect 20-0 at home 
this year and are riding a pro-gram-record 27-game home win 
streak.
Florida is also red-hot coming 
off a sweep of then-No. 1 Texas 
A&M this past weekend, in which 
they scored 24 runs and recorded 
36 hits in three games.
@Pinakk12 
ppinak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 13Jacksonville won its 
last meeting with UF
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Devin Robinson shoots during Florida's 88-79 loss to Kentucky on 
March 1 in the O'Connell Center.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Robin Reynolds runs during the Pepsi Florida Relays on Friday at the Percy Beard Track. 
BASKETBALL NOTEBOOK
White ready for offseason challenges
Moss
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Sam Horsfield came to the fi-
nal hole of the Mason Rudolph 
Championship on Sunday with a 
two-shot lead over fellow Florida 
freshman Gordon Neale.
Horsfield piped his drive down 
the middle of the fairway on the 
522-yard par 5 and was left with 
just a 6-iron to the green.
With Neale just 30 feet away 
for eagle, the pressure was on.
Horsfield sized up his ap-
proach and went to work.
The nation’s fourth-ranked 
player hit a perfect shot.
The right height. The right dis-
tance. The right spot.
“It was like I was talking to 
him in the practice round,” Flor-ida coach J.C. Deacon said of Horsfield on Monday. 
“He was just calm, confident. 
It seems like there’s not an inch of doubt that creeps in, and that’s just such a gift.”
Neale managed to birdie the fi-
nal hole, but it was too little, too late.
Horsfield made a routine two-
putt for birdie, and the tourna-ment was over.
A final round, 5-under 66 was 
enough to give him the third vic-
tory of his collegiate career. 
With the win, Horsfield joined 
an elite group of Gator golfers. 
Since 1977, only five UF players 
have won at least three events 
in a season, including PGA Tour winners Chris DiMarco, Brian Gay and Camilo Villegas. 
On Sunday, the Davenport na-
tive became the sixth, making him the winningest freshman in 
UF history. 
Throughout the season, Hors-
field has shown an uncanny abil-
ity to hang around the top of the 
leaderboard — to the point where 
it has become commonplace. 
“(Sunday) it was kinda like 
expected,” Deacon said of Hors-field’s win. “I tried to explain to him how big of a deal this is ev-
ery time that he wins because it’s 
not easy, but he makes it look so easy.”
But, for as much as Horsfield 
finds himself in the winner’s cir-cle, Deacon said that Horsfield doesn’t really talk about winning all that much.
“He just goes about his busi-
ness,” Deacon said. 
“He knows if he’s at his best 
and he’s focused and doing the right things, it’s going to be tough 
to beat him.
“It’s pretty neat to go to every 
tournament knowing that if you 
play your best, you’re going to come out on top.”
Deacon said the potential for 
Horsfield is endless. 
The Masters, the first major of 
the year for the PGA Tour, begins 
on Thursday. 
Deacon said he expects to see 
Horsfield compete for the coveted 
green jacket one day.
“His career is gonna be scary,” 
Deacon said. 
“I can’t wait to watch what 
he’s going to do in this game. You know, Masters Week, he’s going 
to be apart of a lot of those.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgTHE GATORS WILL 
COMPETE IN THE NCAA 
SEMIFINALS ON FRIDAY.
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Members of the Florida Gators gym-
nastics team are no strangers to individ-
ual recognition. 
But in the wake of Saturday’s victory 
at the NCAA Minneapolis Regional, one theme stood out among the rest.
“We left a lot out on the competi-
tion floor,” head coach Jenny Rowland said. “But, you know what, it was a meet where everybody had each other’s backs. 
“I cannot commend this team enough 
for their resiliency, their determination, 
their grit, their spirit, their hard work, 
and really, that showed this past Satur-day night.” 
Florida will compete in the NCAA 
Semifinals on Friday in Fort Worth, Tex-as.
Last weekend, UF’s athletes and 
coaches took home six of a possible nine awards, ranging from individual event ti-
tles to All-Southeast Region distinctions. 
The Gators’ success was best repre-
sented by senior Bridget Sloan’s event-
winning vault performance, one that 
came in the wake of a rare slip-up from 
freshman Alicia Boren.
“Everyone was able to have her back,” 
Sloan said Saturday.
“I told her after beam, ‘You’ve had my 
back on beam how many times when I’ve fallen? It was time for me to have your back.’ Hitting that beam routine under pressure was the focus for me tonight.”
But having someone else’s back 
wasn’t unique to Sloan, as evidenced when freshman Amanda Cheney — who hadn’t competed in a meet since the 
Gators’ season-opening victory against 
Texas Woman’s University — stepped up to cover for the injured Kennedy Baker, posting a collegiate-best 9.750 on vault in the process. 
That  mentality has factored into the 
Gators’ success, stemming from an ap-preciation for each other and for their sport in general.
They hold each other responsible, 
working hard to avoid disappointing their teammates. 
And, standing a victory removed from 
a fourth-consecutive national champion-
ship, Florida could reap the rewards of 
that accountability once more. 
“We’ve been talking a lot about, 
‘What is your why? Why do we do this? 
Why do we do what we’re doing?’” Row-
land said. “What it comes down to is they love gymnastics. They love competing for the University of Florida, and you know what, they love their teammates and they 
want to be successful.
“Really, that’s what it comes down to, 
and that’s what has made this team as 
successful as it has been so far this year.” 
@ajlb95 
alopez@alligator.orgTUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Bridget Sloan performs on beam during Florida’s win over North Carolina on 
March 11 in the O’Connell Center.
Accountability paying dividends for Florida gymnastics
Talented freshman leading men’s golf
Horsfield has won three events
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sam Horsfield watches his ball roll during Day 1 of the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 20 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course.“It was like I was talking to 
him in the practice round. He 
was just calm, confident. It 
seems like there’s not an inch 
of doubt that creeps in, and 
that’s such a gift.”
J.C. Deacon
Florida men’s golf coach16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Florida’s dominance at home is 
nothing new.
The No. 6 women’s tennis team 
ﬁ  nished undefeated in regular-sea-
son home matches, like it has every 
year since 2004.
UF is on a 157-match winning 
streak at the Ring Tennis Complex, 
good for the longest active home winning streak in the country.
But what’s even more impressive 
is Florida’s 9-0 Southeastern Confer-ence record.
And of all the teams left on its 
schedule, only two pose a threat to blemish UF’s intraconference perfec-
tion. 
One of them is No. 14 Auburn. 
The other is No. 4 Georgia, the last 
SEC team to beat Florida at home back on April 7, 2002. 
The other two, Alabama and Ten-nessee, are sitting at the bottom of the conference standings with 0-9 and 1-8 records, respectively.
But rather than viewing this road 
trip as a test, Florida coach Roland Thornqvist wants to use it as a chance for his team to grow. Spe-
ciﬁ  cally, he wants UF to improve its 
physical endurance over the course of a match.
“The last few weeks, I really feel 
like we are getting stronger, and the team believes that we’re ﬁ  tter,” Thornqvist said. “You can see that in our play.”
Depth and balance have also 
been evident in Florida’s play, start-ing with Josie Kuhlman.
The sophomore has clinched 
three matches this season against three top-25 opponents in addition to every Gator clinching at least one match. 
Two of Kuhlman’s clinches came 
from indoor matches, where she played on the ﬁ  fth court to win the match for the Gators.
“The last two weeks, I’m buying 
some Josie stock. I said that to some-body the other day. She’s moving better. This weekend was the best I’ve seen her move all year her soph-omore year,” Thornqvist said. “She’s got a look in the eye.”
Nearing postseason play, Thorn-
qvist also praised his team’s overall play in addition to Kuhlman’s, not-ing that the team has played well in both doubles and singles. 
Florida takes the court on Friday 
in Tuscaloosa against Alabama at 6 p.m. for the ﬁ  rst of its four-match season-ending road trip.  
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
Florida looking to ﬁ  nish season with strong road play
The Gators’ last four matches are away