We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 104 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016
Florida pitching staﬀ   dominating 
heading into home opener
Florida plays today at 5 p.m., pg. 16
App helps students organize assignments on Canvas
Students can download the app for free, pg. 5
Flash mob educates students on global problems
About 200 students participated, pg. 8The Reitz kind of recreation
Students check out the Reitz Union 
Game Room. See the mini photo story, pg. 3
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
With the Reitz Union’s ribbon-
cutting ceremony Saturday will 
come several new businesses and student organization ofﬁ  ces.
The expansion of the Reitz, 
which started in Fall 2013, means students will be able to access spaces closed since then.
Theses space will include the 
Orange and Brew, the Reitz Union 
Game Room and ofﬁ  ce spaces. 
Wing Zone and Orange 
and Brew
When the Orange and Brew re-
opens, students will be able to get 
chicken wings through a new part-nership with Wing Zone.
The space will have a 150-per-
son capacity with a small stage, said Eddie Daniels, the executive director of the Reitz. It will host 
programs by Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment. 
There will also be TVs, wrote 
Jill Rodriguez, the district market-ing program director for Aramark, in an email.
“I think it’s going to be a great 
hang-out space,” Daniels said. 
The restaurant will serve origi-
nal and boneless wings in more than 15 different ﬂ  avors, Rodriguez said. Orange and Brew will also serve burgers, sandwiches, salads and other dishes. Bottled beer and wine will also 
be available, she said. The restau-
rant will accept Flex Bucks and de-
clining balance.
“Gator Dining is very excited to 
welcome Wing Zone to the Reitz Union,” Rodriguez said.
Reitz Union Game Room
UF’s game room reopened 
Monday with 14 bowling lanes, 10 billiards tables and two foosball tables, Daniels said. 
Space from the room was taken 
for the adjacent Orange and Brew, he said.
“We had to carve out some 
room from the kitchen from the game room,” Daniels said.
However, the game room has 
new ﬁ  nishes, including updates to the ﬂ  oors, lighting, billiard tables and bowling equipment.
“The place will look like it’s a 
new game room,” Daniels said.
The planners designed the room 
around a Gator-spirit theme, he said. This includes custom-made carpet with a gator-skin pattern.
“We wanted to make the game 
room uniquely UF,” Daniels said.
Student Activities and In-
volvement
Student Activities and Involve-
ment is now on the second and third ﬂ  oors of the Reitz, said Tori Remington, the SAI marketing co-ordinator. The new ofﬁ  ces will 
have a graphic design and copy A look at new  
businesses in 
Reitz Union
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
IN THE ZONE
Students who were selected as part of a test group to help Wing Zone employees train for opening day 
on Friday eat wings and fries at the new Reitz Union location on Tuesday. About 50 people were chosen for each test group; four were there Tuesday and more will test the food today.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Across campus Tuesday, the 
clamor of students exercising 
their rights to vote began.   
From 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., 
campaign volunteers for Access Party and Impact Party encour-aged students to go vote. Students 
submitted ballots for 50 sena-tors, executive candidates and an 
amendment which would allow 
online voting on the ﬁ  rst day of 
elections.
Erica Baker, the supervisor of 
elections, wrote in an email that 6,644 students voted on Tuesday. 
Last Spring, a record of 8,903 stu-
dents voted on the ﬁ  rst day.
For Logan Dubnick, 20, the lack of online voting drove him to the polls.  
“Why would you have a sys-
tem of democracy if you’re not gonna try to actually get every-
one’s vote?” the UF neuroscience 
and biology junior said, adding that online voting will increase voter turnout.
He said he voted in support of 
online voting.
Merikris Boado said she ab- First day of SG elections, low turnout
SEE ELECTION,  PAGE 4 SEE BUSINESS,  PAGE 4CAMPUS
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police said they may have 
caught the man responsible for exposing 
himself to a dozen women since Decem-ber.
At about 8 p.m. Monday, ofﬁ  cers 
responded to a man who reportedly touched himself in front of several wom-en near Sorority Row, GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.“You guys sure look nice tonight,” the 
man said, according to the email.
The women, who are UF students, 
told police the man appeared to mastur-bate with his shorts on, Tobias wrote.
The incident occurred in the parking 
lot of Royale Palms apartments. As the women left, the suspect did as well, ac-cording to the email.
A few hours later, at 12 a.m., police 
responded to the bar Fat Daddy’s in Mid-town, where police said a man exposed himself to another group of women, To-bias said.
Police contacted Willie Strawder, 29, 
who was previously banned from the bar last year, Tobias said. He matched the description given to police earlier that 
night.
Strawder was only arrested for tres-
passing because police cannot charge for 
sexual exposure of organs unless they witness the crime, Tobias said.
Authorities took Strawder to the Ala-
chua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $2,000 bond.The next step for police, he said, 
would be to present women from prior exposures with a photo lineup and see if they identify Strawder.
If the victims identify Strawder as the 
culprit, GPD could ﬁ  le a sworn complaint with the State Attorney’s Ofﬁ  ce, which would then determine if Strawder could be charged.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org
  Police arrest potential suspect in serial masturbations
Strawder
6,644 students votedSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Paint the White House black
UF’s African American Studies 
program will sponsor two lec-tures examining the presidency of Barack Obama today and 
Thursday. Both lectures are co-
sponsored by the Bob Graham Center for Public Service, UF’s Department of Political Science and UF’s Center for the Humanities and the Public Sphere. At the first event, today at 6 p.m. in the Pugh Hall Ocora, Michael Jeffries, an associate 
professor of American Studies at 
Wellesley College, will discuss his book, “Paint the White House Black: Barack Obama and the Meaning of Race in America.” Professor Jeffries received a doc-torate in African-American stud-ies with an emphasis in sociology from Harvard University.
The Beginner’s Photography 
WorkshopOn Friday from 3:30 p.m. to 
7 p.m., Asian Pacific Islander 
American Affairs and Sparks Magazine are re-offering their beginner photography workshop to teach skills needed for captur-ing a professional-quality photo. Learn fundamental concepts of photography using DSLR camer-as. You will then have an oppor-
tunity to test your skills outside. 
They hope APIA-identified and non-APIA identified individuals will learn to express themselves through this creative medium and become inspired to submit to the 2015-2016 APIA Anthology. Please bring your own camera. A limited number of cameras will 
be provided.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to 
mgracehenley@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper. 2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 104
HIGH  73° LOW  43°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
Reduce your showertime by 2 min.TICK.TOCK.
Preserve waterWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Alex Radulescu, a 21-year-old UF electrical engineering senior, 
plays a game of billiards at the Reitz Union Game Room on Monday. After its recent renovation, the game room now features 14 bowling lanes, 10 billiard tables, one snooker table, two foosball tables and two pingpong tables.
THE REITZ KIND OF RECREATION
Esteban Siles, an 18-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering freshman, plays a game of pingpong with his friend Carlos Ancaten, a 28-year-old UF physical therapy student in the English Language Institute program, in the recently reopened Reitz Union Game Room on Tuesday afternoon.
Emma Green / Alligator Staffstained from voting for online 
voting because it could lead to students voting as other stu-
dents, if they knew another stu-
dent’s UF ID number.  
But the 22-year-old UF family, 
youth and community sciences senior voted because she wanted 
to support her friends running 
for SG.
“Even though I’m graduat-
ing, I’m still trying to support my friends that are in Student Gov-
ernment,” she said.
Rachel Rockwell said she vot-
ed yes for online voting because 
it would be a good option for students who couldn’t make it to 
the polls.
The 20-year-old UF English 
sophomore said she felt com-
pelled to vote because of the con-troversy around this semester’s 
elections.
“Whether the party I voted for 
wins or not, I at least wanted to 
make the effort to vote and try to make change,” she said.
Students can vote today be-
ginning at 8:30 a.m. until 8:30 p.m. After polls close, the results will be announced at 10 p.m. at the Reitz Union Breezeway.
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016
SIX WOMEN FROM UF’S SURF 
CLUB ARE COMPETING.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students are entering to participate in a 
weeklong contest to race across Europe.
The contest, called “Red Bull Can You 
Make It?” is run through the energy-drink company. Teams of three college students are 
selected based on audition videos. Teams will 
travel across Europe in seven days, using cans of Red Bull to get food, shelter and transporta-tion, said Dixie Smith, a UF dentistry doctoral 
student entering the contest.
Smith, 21, said teams are selected based on 
the number of votes their audition videos get 
online. Red Bull judges will select 165 teams by 
region, the quality of the videos and the num-
ber of votes they get.
If picked, she and two other UF students 
would collect points by completing different tasks in Europe. The team with the most points 
wins a free trip to a major European city.  
Six women from UF’s Surf Club are trying 
to make it on two teams, she said.
“We’re technically competing against each 
other, but the goal is we’ll both go,” said Smith, 
whose team’s name is “Rad Bull Babes.”
Lauren Wilson, a UF biology sophomore, said her team’s name is “Bae Watch.” She said 
she wants to participate in the contest to travel.
“I’ve never been to Europe; it’s been totally 
out of my price range,” the 19-year-old said. “I’ve never had an opportunity to go that far from home.”
Smith said it would be hard to prepare for 
the trip if her team is selected.“We’ll probably just wing it,” she said. 
“We’re kind of taking it one step at a time.”
Wilson said she was inspired to audition 
with her team because of a friend who partici-
pated in the race in 2014.
Natalie Palmer, who graduated from UF in 
2014, said she participated in Red Bull’s ﬁ  rst competition.
While her team didn’t win, she said it was 
the craziest thing she’s ever done.
“It’s deﬁ  nitely not for the lighthearted,” the 
23-year-old said.
She said the ﬁ  rst day of the race, her team 
traded three cans of Red Bull for a ﬂ  ight from Austria to the Swiss Alps. She said her team 
persuaded the airline to give them the ﬂ  ight for 
publicity.
“Within ten minutes we were running 
through security trying to catch the next ﬂ  ight 
out,” she said.
Wilson said she would trust strangers to 
help her team in the contest.
“I have a lot of faith in humankind,” Smith 
said. “I think a lot of our generation has lost that faith. Every team is going to make it most 
likely, and that’s from the kindness of other people.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org UF students enter contest to race across Europe with Red Bull
Courtesy to the Alligator
From left: Brett Walker, 24, Sky Smith, 22 and Dixie Smith, 21, pose for their team 
photo for the “Red Bull Can You Make It?” contest, which tasks teams to a race across Europe with nothing but cans of the energy drink. The students are part of UF’s Surf Club, and they are entering alongside another team of three in the same club.
center, she said.
On the second ﬂ  oor, the ofﬁ  ce 
will provide graphic design services 
to student organizations.
SAI will also have 21 open ofﬁ  ce 
spaces for student organizations, she said.
“We are lucky to be in a collab-
orative space,” Remington said. 
Student Government
UF’s new Student Government 
ofﬁ  ces are on the third ﬂ  oor of the Reitz, and the new Senate chambers will be on the ground ﬂ  oor. 
Student Body Vice President Kev-
in Doan said he is impressed with the space.
“It is a lot more collaborative,” 
he said. “There is a lot more space to have meetings and get your work done.”
Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs
The Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs suite will have ofﬁ  ces for LG-BTQ+ Affairs, Asian Paciﬁ  c Islander American Affairs, the Institute of Black Culture and the Institute of 
Hispanic-Latino Cultures.
Each institute has decorated its 
own space with colorful posters and 
ﬂ  ags, said Ivelisse Birk, a UF graphic design junior. Outside the ofﬁ  ces, there are couches and tables.
“It’s nice we are all here togeth-
er,” she said. “It makes for better communication.”
@MerylKornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org BUSINESS,  from pg 1SG and 
others to have 
new oicesELECTION,  from pg 1Voting continues today from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.
Voting locations
 Broward Hall, in the library on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor
 J. Hillis Miller Health Science Center C2-041C
 Heavener Hall Academic Success Suite, Room 
202
 Jennings Hall, in the library on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor
 Bruton-Geer Hall (in UF’s Levin College of Law): side hallways by the cafeteria
 Marston Science Library
 Murphree Area Commons conference area, Room 106
 Norman Hall Education Library
 Reitz Union Computer Lab
 Southwest Recreation Center
 Springs Area Ofﬁ  ce, Room C 202
Brianna Henry (left), a 17-year-old UF mathematics freshman, waits to vote in the Student Government elections with Dori Schrock, an 18-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering freshman, at the Reitz Union Computer Lab on Tuesday. On the ﬁ  rst day of the election, 6,644 students cast their votes.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator StaffWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By John Avery Guyton
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students can now organize 
their class assignments on a free 
app.
The app, Schoolﬂ  ow, was in-
troduced to UF students Mon-day, said Gabe Medina, the CEO of Schoolﬂ  ow. The app will sync 
with students’ GatorLink ac-
counts to download all of their assignments into one place. It will also tell students when assign-ments are due and when grades 
are posted, he said.
The app cost about $20,000 to 
create, Medina said. 
It is available on Apple’s iOS 
platform, and the company hopes to launch it on Android by the 
end of March.
Schoolﬂ  ow launched at the 
University of Central Florida in 
September and has 2,000 students using it, he said. Within the ﬁ  rst 
hour of advertising the app at UF, 
about 500 students had down-
loaded it.
Medina said he wanted to ex-
pand Schoolﬂ  ow to UF because he thought a large number of stu-
dents would use it and because 
his brother attends the university.
Currently, the app can only im-
port items from Canvas, he said. 
In the future, he hopes to allow students to manually input as-
signments that are not on Canvas.
“We’re trying to add new 
things as fast as we can,” Medina said.
Tommy Dambrosio, a UF busi-
ness sophomore, said he wants to use the app because Canvas is 
disorganized.
“It just seems convenient,” the 19-year-old said.
He said he likes that students 
can use their phones to help with 
learning.
“I think it can set a precedent 
for third parties to make the edu-cational experience more effective and efﬁ  cient,” Dambrosio said.
Medina said with more inves-
tors and funding, the company can add more developers and ex-pand the app faster.
“The end goal is to be avail-
able to every student in the coun-
try,” Medina said.  App that helps organize Canvas assignments comes to UF
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Josh Venkataraman has more than 
8,000 signatures, but he’s missing one.
Since last year, the UF telecommunica-
tion senior has fought to exonerate four 
Florida men who, in 1949, were convict-ed in connection with the rape of a white woman in Groveland, Florida, a city situ-
ated in Lake County.
After the FBI found no evidence of a 
rape, the Groveland Four case became 
a story about four young men who were wrongly imprisoned by an all-white jury.
Since he began the petition last Spring 
Break, Venkataraman, 22, has amassed signatures from places such as Seattle, Washington; Austin, Texas; and Australia.
But he’s missing one from Gov. Rick 
Scott, R-Fla., who could sign off on the boys’ exoneration.
“I really just think it’s justice that’s long 
overdue,” Venkataraman said.
Last year, a bill calling for their acquit-
tal died in the Florida Legislature. This year, Venkataraman said a new bill will likely suffer a similar fate.
The brother of Charles Greenlee, one 
of the four boys, joined Venkataraman at Groveland City Hall on Tuesday. Attendees stood and clapped as the mayor of Grove-
land issued a proclamation to Gov. Scott, asking him to exonerate the boys.
Venkataraman said the mayor received 
death threats before Tuesday’s announce-
ment.
For Wade Greenlee, 73, clearing his 
brother’s name would mean an end to a multi-decade struggle. The proclamation 
would be the closest he’s ever been to see-
ing his brother exonerated.
“It’s been a long time coming,” Green-
lee said. “But I never thought we would get 
to this point.”
Almost 70 years ago, Charles traveled 
from Alachua to Groveland to ﬁ  nd a job 
because his girlfriend was pregnant.
Greenlee was less than 10 years old 
when his brother Charles, then 16, woke up to the allegations of rape.
Charles spent about 13 years in prison 
before he was paroled. In 2012, as the last 
living member of the Groveland Four, he 
died.
“I’m just sorry that he’s not here to real-
ize this,” Greenlee said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org UF student seeks justice in decades-old sexual assault caseStudents can download the app for free
By Lauren Johnson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rebekah Robbins found inspi-
ration Tuesday night.
Robbins, a math instructor at 
the Gainesville Job Corps Center, visited the Headquarters Library for Alachua County to hear author William Kamkwamba’s story.
Kamkwamba, 28, spoke to 
about 60 attendees and recounted his early years as an engineer and dreamer in the village of Wimbe, Malawi, Africa. 
Robbins listened to the story of 
how Kamkwamba used scraps to build a windmill at the age of 14, creating electricity in the village 
and earning him an invitation to 
the TEDGlobal Conference. 
He wrote about the project in 
his book, “The Boy Who Har-nessed the Wind.”
He told attendees the confer-
ence helped him later obtain ma-terials to build solar-powered wa-ter tanks, which came to use in the drought-stricken area.
“Growing up, I was very cu-
rious of how different things work,” he said. 
Robbins, who excitedly ap-
proached Kamkwamba after the speech, said she will take the ex-
perience back to her students at 
the job corps.  “I think we all have that bril-
liance,” she said. “That brilliance just needs to be nurtured.”
Kamkwamba said most people 
in his community farmed, and his 
parents could not afford to send 
him to school. 
“I didn’t want to become a 
farmer, not because I hate farm-
ing, but because that is not the 
only thing I can do,” he said.
In 2014, he graduated from 
Dartmouth College after braving both his studies and the weather 
in Hanover, New Hampshire. 
“I like the snow, but not the 
cold that comes with it,” he said. 
Now, Kamkwamba travels to 
his village and implements more 
environmental and communal projects about once a year. 
“All the people that are suc-
cessful today have faced some 
challenges, but they didn’t allow 
those challenges to stop them,” he said.  Author, innovator shares his story
Twenty-eight-year-old author William Kamkwamba speaks 
at the Headquarters Library for Alachua County on Tues-day about his life in Wimbe, a village in Malawi. At the age of 14, Kamkwamba built a windmill from scraps, providing electricity for his village.
Lauren Johnson / Alligator Staff“The end goal is to be 
available to every student in 
the country.” 
Gabe Medina
CEO of Schoolflow
Walter Irvin (third from left), Charles Greenlee and Samuel Shepherd stand in a jail after being accused of raping a 17-year-old white girl in Lake County, Florida, in 1949. Since then, Greenlee’s daughter, Carol Greenlee, has petitioned to exonerate her father and the other African-American men who were charged alongside him, known as the Groveland Four.
Courtesy to the Alligator
He’s from Wimbe, Malawi
“All the people that are 
successful today have faced 
some challenges, but they 
didn’t allow those challenges 
to stop them.” 
William Kamkwamba
authorThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Scalia’s legacy 
haunts his passing
It was announced Tuesday that Senior Associate Justice Anto-
nin Scalia, who passed away due to natural causes at a luxu-ry resort in Texas on Saturday, will lie in repose in the halls of the Supreme Court this coming Friday. As is traditional, Scalia was honored with the placement of a black wool crepe 
over his chair and bench, along with black drapery over the doors to the courtroom. These simple, understated gestures by the Su-preme Court are the most respectful remembrances of Scalia to have emerged from D.C. since his passing.
Given Scalia’s famously conservative jurisprudence, it may 
surprise some of our more critical and conservative readers that we aren’t using his death as a cause for celebration. The reason for this is two-fold: First, come on, it isn’t as though we’re so lacking in moral decency that we would speak ill of the dead. 
Second, no matter how strongly we loathe and detest more than 
a considerable portion of Scalia’s strict constructionist views of the U.S. Constitution, he was near unparalleled in his brilliance.
Many on the left have long been content to brand Scalia as a 
backward-thinking imbecile, inﬂ  exible in his morals and near-inscrutable in his reasoning; they’re only one-third correct. Al-though many refuse to acknowledge it, Scalia’s opinions — both majority and dissenting — were always constructed with a nigh-encyclopedic understanding of common law and the Constitu-
tion. Were his opinions disagreeable? Barring his consistently in-
dividualist interpretations of the Fourth Amendment, sure. Were his opinions — ignoring the clear and present moral arguments against them — easily deconstructed from a legal perspective? Not a chance.
Brilliant though he may have been, we doubt even Mr. Scalia 
could have foreseen his legacy to American politics would one day help to fuel the political ﬁ  re surrounding his death. In case anyone missed the memo, 2016 is not only an election year, but 
it is also the ﬁ  nal complete calendar year of Barack Obama’s his-
toric presidency. Considering it is the president’s responsibility to nominate justices to the U.S. Supreme Court, Republicans have whipped themselves into a frenzy in attempting to justify why it will be up to the next president, not Obama, to nominate Scalia’s successor. Alligator favorite Ted Cruz, who not only served as a law clerk to Chief Justice William Rehnquist, but has also lectured on the Supreme Court and argued before it (winning ﬁ  ve out of nine cases) should know better than to claim it is not the job of 
a lame duck president to nominate a U.S. Supreme Court Justice. 
If any Republicans in D.C. had bothered to ask him, Associate Justice Anthony Kennedy could have told them that, not only is there no precedent for outlawing lame duck presidents from nominating U.S. Supreme Court justices, but also that he himself was nominated by former President Ronald Reagan in 1987 and conﬁ  rmed in 1988, the ﬁ  nal year of Reagan’s presidency.
As President Obama noted in an address last night, this unrea-
sonable and quasi-treasonous rhetoric is the direct consequence 
of the very political polarization Scalia helped to usher in. Like it 
or not, the democratic process and the ideals our nation purport-edly upholds require thoughtful discussion and no small amount of nuance. While we’re willing to acknowledge Scalia’s remark-able intellectual prowess, we’re not going to rewrite history and claim “nuanced” was an apt descriptor for the man. Like his constructionist philosophy, Scalia was immune to progress and incapable of accommodating dissenting doctrines. In his three decades on the Supreme Court bench, Scalia codiﬁ  ed and institu-
tionalized the obstinance and intractable character of America’s 
hard-right conservative faction. It is simultaneously ironic, tragic and ﬁ  tting, then, that the very individuals he empowered have been quick to abandon any pretense of mourning or respect, in-stead using his passing to score a quick political buck: This is Scalia’s legacy.
On Thursday, a team of scientists at the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory detected gravita-tional waves. In measuring the sound of two black holes colliding, one of the 
last points of Einstein’s theory of relativity was proven correct. However, this triumph is not just a triumph for the sake of discovery; it was a triumph for the scientists who dedicated decades of their lives to proving this research. The time spent toward the study was worth it.
Then again, besides discovery for the sake of scientiﬁ  c 
curiosity, what’s the point? In the eyes of a large portion of Americans, because consumers can’t buy gravitational 
waves at their local convenience stores, these scientiﬁ  c 
geniuses were wasting their time and tax dollars.
People are pulled in different directions on what to 
think of science. It’s a common misconception that an economic value needs to be put on science, and it’s hard to argue this misconception when it is rooted in the highest branches of scientiﬁ  c research. Since 2010 — as pointed out in an article by Nature — Francis Col-lins, the director of the National Institutes of Health, has 
explained research funding through economics, showing 
how each dollar spent in research pumps out additional economic revenue. The problem is, no price can match value when research can save lives, combat disease and change how people view the world around them.
The gap between scientists and average Americans 
can be bridged by attempts from both sides to under-stand each other. Americans need to be more inclined to have an opinion, and an informed one, about science in 
general. Scientists are the ones who can solve this prob-
lem. It may not be crucial whether people understand or care about topics such as gravitational waves, but scien-tists should worry when people accept subjective stances on objectively important issues.
Take climate change as an example. This isn’t some 
obscure scientiﬁ  c purpose to ﬁ  nd out the perplexing nature of our galaxy; it’s an issue that could end life as we know it within the next few de-cades. Yet as politicians argue about whether scientiﬁ  c research should increase to combat climate change, there is still the argument 
about whether climate change is actually 
real. This is what happens when politicians give their opinions on complex issues they do not understand. Americans are forced to take advice from those who know little about sci-ence when there is a plethora of experts on 
the subject. However, most scientists do not relate to the average person. When scientists publish papers in peer-reviewed journals such as Nature, they might as well be 
in another language, as the articles are generally written 
solely for other scientists to read them. So if the aver-age Joe doesn’t know what 4-tert-butylcyclohexanone is, tough luck. If scientists want people to understand and therefore appreciate all types of research, science needs to be explained better. Scientists have to reach people more effectively, because there are few scientists who can (although should be able to) explain complex scien-tiﬁ  c phenomena in a readily accessible fashion.
It is not essential for discoveries like gravitational 
waves to be understood by nonscientists. However, sci-entists sometimes need to put as much effort into under-standing people as they do into understanding science itself. People may not understand organic synthesis or quantum mechanics, but they understand danger. They understand the value of life. That is why, while people are wishy-washy on topics like climate change, opinions are unanimous to support research on cancer and Al-
zheimer’s disease. When scientists put in the effort to 
put complex scientiﬁ  c topics into terminology people un-derstand, the scope of what people consider to “matter” in science will expand drastically.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF chemical engineering fresh-
man. His column appears on Wednesdays.
Gap between the world and the scientiﬁ  c communityColumn
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
February is Li-
brary Lovers’ Month! Who 
decided this? I 
have no idea, 
but I’m in full support of such a thing. As 
college students, we 
should all be famil-iar with the library. Whether you go to Marston Sci-ence Library for the 24/5 mass-
produced study space or you 
hole yourself up in Library East because the ceiling of the read-ing room reminds you of Hog-
warts, we each have a unique 
relationship with the many libraries on campus. UF has the biggest library database in Florida, with six libraries and a 
constantly growing digital col-
lection.
If you’ve never bothered to 
check out the fascinating li-
brary resources that UF offers, 
the time to do so is now. From the stunning Library of Judaica to the 3-D printer in Marston you can actually use — I know 
someone who printed an entire 
chess set just for kicks — UF’s library system shines as an ex-ample of how the university 
tries hard to give students a 
great learning experience. We just have to take advantage of it.
In honor of Library Lovers’ 
Month, I present a few counter-arguments to reasons I’ve heard some people cite for not indulg-ing in healthy library explora-
tion:
“I don’t like studying in the 
library. It’s too full of people. 
I get more work done in my room.” 
Here’s a fascinating idea: The 
library is not meant exclusively as a study space. They actually have, like, books there. You can 
check them out and leave and 
not do any studying there at all! You don’t even have to look at the people chowing down Chi-potle on the quiet floor of Li-
brary West if you don’t want to! 
Wow.
“Library books are gross and 
full of germs! Do you know how 
many disgusting people might 
have touched that book?”
 I don’t, and I don’t really 
want to know, either. But may-be you are someone plagued 
by the idea of hundreds of skin 
cells flaking onto the open pag-es of your collection of T.S El-iot’s poems from 1955. 
If you weren't before, I bet 
you are now. I am a little, just from writing that sentence. 
However, I’m here to tell you 
a study by the Journal of Clini-
cal Epidemiology and an article 
by Mental Floss both concluded that the germy con-tent sticking to the average public library 
book is not enough to 
make someone ill.
 There are so many 
public spaces in to-
day’s society that are 
likely just as full of people-germs, such as 
our much-loved Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, packed as it is with 
hundreds of people every game-
day. 
If you can visit the Swamp 
in the sweltering heat of August 
and pack yourself in like a sar-
dine to watch football, I’m sure you can handle checking out a library book.
“The library is for nerds. 
That’s not where I’ll meet my next boyfriend/girlfriend/sig-nificant unicorn.”
 I’m not sure this is a legiti-
mate reason for anyone to not visit the library, but on the chance you view the many li-braries of UF as hubs of cultural geekiness and are too cool to 
venture inside: Picture a mo-
ment browsing the bookshelves in the Fine Arts Library. You and your potential S.O. both 
reach for the same book at the 
same time; it’s love! You pro-ceed to curl up in a chair and tell each other your life stories. 
Trust me, a meet-cute in the 
library is at least 10 times more epically romantic than a meet-cute at a frat party, where the potential S.O. then has to break 
the moment by vomiting all 
over your shoes.
“I’m a hipster, and I can’t 
go inside any of UF’s libraries for fear of being drawn to the 
mainstream beverage monolith 
of Starbucks. Plus, there are no succulents for me to take pic-tures of in Lib. West.”
Dude, I totally get it. Don’t 
worry; Alachua County has a li-brary of its own! 
By signing up for a free li-
brary card, you gain admission 
to explore this suitably off-the-
beaten-path library at any time. They will even give you access to a digital archive of pretty 
much any magazine ever.
These reasons may seem a 
little far-fetched, but my main 
point is, as students, we have access to a wealth of library 
resources that, once we gradu-
ate, may be far more difficult to find. Celebrate Library Lovers’ Month for the wonderful affir-
mation of learning that it is, and 
go explore a library today.
Sally Greider is an English 
and public relations junior. Her column appears on Wednes-
days.I invite you to celebrate 
Library Lovers’ MonthColumn
When I tell people I spent the 
summer in Tanzania learn-ing Swahili, it usually elicits 
a degree of confusion. “Is that 
a click language?” “How does 
one learn Swahili?” “Why would you waste your time learning a language no 
one speaks?” “Who speaks Swahili?” “Is 
Swahili even a language?”
Without condemnation, I want to as-
sert that one of the cornerstones of the historical pillaging of Africa, both physically and 
intellectually, has been the base assertion that Afri-
cans are descended from beasts without language.
However starkly this thesis might come off, 
let me cite an inscription from a 1757 map of the 
kingdoms of Congo, Angola and Benguela made 
by Jacques-Nicolas Bellin, the cartographer to the king of France. The inscription (translated from the French) reads: “Savages, said to be incapable of us-ing speech and language.”
The cartography is stunning both in its artistry 
and in the fact the coast of Africa is so accurately sketched in an era well before modern technology. But the desires for empire and the dehumanization 
of a whole continent embodied in the map give 
pause and are fundamentally upsetting.
Flash forward to 1899, when Joseph Conrad’s 
famous novella “Heart of Darkness” described the language of the inhabitants of the Congo as “strings 
of amazing words that resembled no sounds of hu-
man language; and the deep murmurs of the crowd, interrupted suddenly, were like the responses of some satanic litany.”
The two statements in question are not random 
or aberrant instances of racism and linguistic ig-norance; rather, they embody a whole structure of thought that dismisses Africa as a wasteland and misrepresents its righteous linguistic traditions as 
mere babbling. I believe furthermore that this per-
vades the present, in which many Westerners are convinced Africa is a country whose inhabitants speak a “dialect” called “African.”
The misconceptions addressed hitherto merit 
discussion, so we might better understand the rich linguistic context of Africa.
The African continent exhibits a stunning range 
of linguistic diversity, containing many dissimilar 
language families that themselves encompass hun-
dreds of languages. In total, there exist some 2,000 distinct languages in Africa.
With regards to the term “dialect,” it is to be 
noted that a dialect is simply one way of speaking a particular language, like the Southern dialect of English that I speak. Anyone who speaks a “dia-lect,” then, as a natural consequence also speaks a language. Historically, languages have been re-ferred to as “dialects” because the term is diminutive, but it is ultimately flawed and inaccurate.
Not only are the languages of Africa 
fully developed as languages per se, but their sound systems, notably those of the Southern part of the continent (alleged 
by Bellin to be incapable of language) are 
among the most complex of all human languages, which brings me back to the so-called “click consonants.”
There is nothing magical or exceptional about 
the “clicks” that appear in plenty of human lan-guages, including English. They are merely con-sonant sounds made without air flowing from the lungs; instead, the tongue condenses air rapidly, 
having made contact with a certain point of the 
mouth.
We all make one click sound in English, usu-
ally to express contempt or disgust. It is the dental 
click written “tsk!” In Xhosa, a national language 
of South Africa, the same sound is represented by the letter <c> in the verb ‘ukucula,’ ‘to sing.’ An-other click sound is the one we make to call hors-es  — pulling the tongue straight down — written 
<x>, as in the Zulu word for frog, ‘ixoxo.’ Other 
clicks can be made by pulling the lips apart rapidly or pulling the tongue down to make a “popping” sound. Needless to say, these sounds have the same 
status as phonemes such as /s/ or /g/ in English 
and are not noteworthy or exceptional but, rather, just features of the sound systems of a minority of African languages.
All of this is to say Africa resembles the rest of 
the world in that its denizens use language, often up to seven distinct languages, as a means of recon-structing their reality and marking their identity. The languages of the collective homeland of hu-
manity represent a set of collective mother tongues 
worthy of our respect and admiration.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics 
master’s student. His column appears on Wednes-days.Africa is not a country; African is not a languageColumnLetter to the Editor
Students organize for Syria
Toward the end of last year, it 
seemed the world had ﬁ  nally be-
gun to pay attention to what was 
occurring in Syria. There was a ﬂ  urry of news coverage, protests and conversation over social me-
dia. Although many of us have 
moved on, the conﬂ  ict between Bashar al-Assad’s regime, rebel forces, ISIS and the Russians con-tinues to kill and displace people 
in the region. The most recent re-
ports show a total of about 4.7 mil-lion Syrian refugees who are, in many cases, without food, water, 
shelter and other basic needs. In a 
recent memorandum, the Human Rights Campaign identiﬁ  ed three key areas of need, one of which is education. About 222,000 chil-dren in Lebanon, 100,000 in Jor-
dan, and 400,000 children in Tur-
key are not in school. This occurs as a result of language barriers, economic hardship and enroll-
ment requirements meant to bar 
Syrian students from attending schools in these host countries.
Although much of the crisis in-
volves matters of diplomacy, mili-
tary intervention and negotiation 
between countries, there is now a way that students at UF can help. The ﬁ  rst meeting of UF’s local 
chapter of Students Organize for 
Syria (SOS) will be held today at 6:30 p.m. in Rinker Hall, Room 210. To learn more, you can like UF SOS’s Facebook page at face-book.com/gators4syria. You can 
also join the Books Not Bombs 
campaign to help provide educa-tion for refugees of the conﬂ  ict. This nationwide campaign is 
pushing universities across the 
country to provide scholarships for Syrian students, join the Syria Consortium and encourage other institutions to join the project. 
Make sure to sign the petition 
at books-not-bombs.com/uf and consider donating to organiza-tions that are working to provide 
aid to those affected by the con-
ﬂ  ict.
Amanda Nelson
UF student
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.org
“The African continent exhibits 
a stunning range of linguistic 
diversity, containing many 
dissimilar language families 
that themselves encompass 
hundreds of languages.”WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016
By Paulina Rios
Alligator Contributing Writer
Neha Saini, wearing red, stood frozen on Turl-
ington Plaza on Tuesday. 
The 19-year-old was one of about 200 students 
who took part in the first Global Awareness Flash 
Mob. Bertrhude Albert, a UF instructor for effec-
tive oral communication, had her students freeze 
for about five minutes to draw attention to issues such as sanitation, suicide and human trafficking. While students sat frozen, nine students 
dressed in red took turns yelling statistics. The students who froze told a story through nonver-bal communication, Albert said. They represented 
how people can get caught up in the present and 
not look at what’s going on in the world. 
The red shirts of the students shouting facts 
represented the urgency of the statistics, she said. Black, worn by the rest of the students, represent-ed their compliance with everyday life.   
Molly Vise, a UF biology senior, said the pur-pose of this flash mob was to encourage ordinary 
people to be aware of what’s going on in the 
world. 
“We have a very passionate millennial gen-
eration,” the 21-year-old said. “It was really nice working toward the things that all millennials are 
worried about right now.” 
Albert said she wanted the students who par-
ticipated in the event to experience how powerful 
communication can be and inspire UF students to 
take action and make a difference in the world. 
“I hope that students really captured the heart 
of what was being said and are able to be the 
change,” Albert said. Flash mob educates students on global problems
About 200 students participatedLEFT:
Bertrhude Albert leads the 
Global Awareness Flash Mob on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday. Participants froze in place for five minutes while other students shouted statistics on current issues in the world. Albert teaches a class of 200 students that focuses on heightening oral communication skills.
Max Chesnes / AlligatorGLOBAL STATISTICS
• Of the victims forced into labor by 
individuals or enterprises, 4.5 million are 
subjected to sexual exploitation
• It is estimated that 884 million people lack access to safe water supplies
• The top 1 percent of Americans own more 
wealth than more than half the world’s population
Sources: ilo.org, dosomething.org and wsws.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
Condo 1BR/1BA – 705 SQ.FT.Bike to UF or ride the bus
Call or Text 352-234-3018    2-18-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99995 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR  11  
97 Toyota Avalon $1999
91 Lexus LS400 $199996 Cadillac Deville $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-1203 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp pro-gram. For a complete listing of positions visit www.oakhall.org/summercamp. Interview process begins February 20.   2-19-16-11-14
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
HIRING 20 DRIVERS
JOB FAIR THIS FRIDAY
Domino's 3311 W. Universtiy Ave. 2-4 p.m. Instant Interviews.     2-19-16-3-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Janitorial cleaner needed to service ar-
eas in morriston,williston,jonesville,and Gainesville... needs reliable transportation...weekly pay....call 352-214-0868 if interested   2-23-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
25 Lost & Found 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 24 Pets 14 Help WantedSEC announces football media days
The Southeastern Conference media days will be held July 11-14 in Hoover, 
Alabama, the league announced on Tuesday. Florida coach Jim McElwain and UF players will speak on the ﬁ  rst day of the event.Florida softball's pitching staff 
is dominating through the season's ﬁ  rst four games.Read the story on pg. 16.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Luis T orres
Sports Writer
Around this time last year, Peter Alonso 
was gearing up for his sophomore season. 
After starting 58 games at Florida as a 
freshman and hitting .264 with 32 RBIs, 
Alonso was looking to build on his solid 
ﬁ  rst campaign. 
But three days before the Gators’ season 
opener against Rhode Island, Alonso broke his right foot, sidelining him for the ﬁ  rst 30 
games.
He returned in April, but during a bat-
ting-practice session one month later, a baseball hit the Tampa native in the face and broke his nose. As a result, he wore a distinctive facemask for the rest of the sea-
son.
The facemask didn’t faze him, though. 
Alonso just wanted to get out on the dia-
mond and contribute to the team.  
“I mean, it really wasn’t that big of a deal once I got used to it,” Alonso said, “but I just wanna get out there, have fun and play the game I love.”
Facemask or not, Alonso turned into one 
of UF’s better players in the second half of last season. He ﬁ  nished 2015 hitting .301, including a .340 clip during the postseason — the second-highest postseason average for the Gators. He'll look to continue that success from late last season when No. 1 UF opens the 2016 season Friday against Florida Gulf Coast.
“It felt really good,” Alonso said of his 
second half play. “It was kind of like getting The man behind the maskMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
KeVaughn Allen never saw it go in.After the ball left his hands on a fadeaway 
jumper from the right side of the three-point line,  Allen fell backward onto the court as his shot sailed through the net.
It was a rare sight for Florida.After a ﬁ  rst half in which the Gators missed 
15 of their 16 three-pointers and scored just 19 points, tied for their lowest scoring output in a 
half this season, Florida needed a scoring jolt.
The Gators got it in Allen.
The freshman scored 19 points on 7-of-13 
shooting in Florida’s 57-53 win over Georgia in 
Athens on Tuesday night.
“He was a game changer,” UF coach Mike 
White said. “
Even with Allen’s offensive effort, the game 
wasn’t sealed until the ﬁ  nal seconds. After Georgia’s Kenny Gaines made a three pointer to bring the Bulldogs within one point with 25 
seconds left, UF forward Dorian Finney-Smith 
made two free throws to extend Florida’s lead to three.
After a three-point miss by Gaines on Geor-
gia’s next possession, Allen was fouled and made one of two free throws to put the game 
out of reach.
"He got it going there in the second half," 
White said of Allen. "He hit a couple really big 
shots."
Florida’s win was marred by a deﬂ  ating per-
formance in the ﬁ  rst half in which the Gators went on an eight-minute scoring drought, including a three-minute span that saw the Gators miss ﬁ  ve consecutive three-pointers.
“We’re always concerned with our guys of-
fensive mindset and conﬁ  dence level. That’s our weakness,” White said. “But to maintain that focus and energy level when the ball isn’t ‘Just enough’: UF 
squeezes past UGA on road
UF's Alonso ready for junior season
AFTER EARL Y-SEASON STRUGGLES, PEREZ-
BLANCO WON IN SINGLES AND DOUBLES 
AGAINST FURMAN ON SATURDAY.
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Going into Saturday’s match against Furman, Florida 
men’s tennis player Chase Perez-Blanco was coming off 
his worst performance of the 2016 season.
In the Gators’ previous match against the University of 
Southern California on Jan. 30, the sophomore from Mi-ami struggled to ﬁ  nd any rhythm on the court, losing his singles match 6-3, 6-1 and falling in his doubles match 6-2.
However, Perez-Blanco responded on Saturday with 
not only his strongest performance on the season, but ar-guably the strongest performance by any Gator this year, dominating the entire match in both singles and doubles play.
“I tried to put the USC match behind me,” Perez-Blanco 
said. “It wasn’t my best performance, but it happens. And to come back and play the way I did (against Furman) is satisfying.”
After playing his ﬁ  rst four doubles matches of the sea-son with redshirt sophomore Joshua Wardell, Perez-Blan-co was tabbed with a new partner last Saturday: freshman Alfredo Perez. 
Facing Furman’s Stefan Rhodes and Alex Steryous, the 
ﬁ  rst-time duo did not disappoint for UF, handily winning the match 6-0.Florida men's tennis player hoping to build on strong performanceSEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15 SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE TENNIS,  PAGE 15“I tried to put the USC match behind me. It wasn’t my 
best performance, but it happens."
Chase Perez-Blanco
UF men's tennis player
UF first baseman Peter Alonso (20) catches a pickoff attempt from pitcher Logan Shore dur-ing the Gators' 15-3 win against Miami on June 13 in the College World Series. 
Javier Fernandez / Courtesy to the Alligator14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
the monkey off my back because 
before missing the first 30 games and then with the broken foot and 
then having to deal with the whole 
broken nose and playing with the mask.” 
Alonso built up much-needed 
momentum after last season ended. He spent his time during the offsea-son trying to improve his game. 
Keeping things simple has been 
a focal point. 
“Just not really trying to do 
anything too much,” Alonso said. “Just stay consistent where I was 
having a good load, be on time and 
pick out good pitches to swing at and play good defense.”
He’s also expected to provide protection in the lineup for JJ Schwarz. Schwarz took the college baseball world by storm last year, hitting 18 home runs and driving in 73 runs. 
Teams will approach Schwarz 
differently because of his success 
last year. But his loss might be his 
teammate's gain. Alonso will have the chance to see more hittable pitches and his production might increase. 
And having the potential of in-
serting Alonso behind Schwarz gives the Gators an element that many other teams simply don’t 
have: power in the middle of the 
lineup. 
“One of the hardest things to 
get into school is a guy with power because it’s a very, very hard com-modity to find,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “So having Pete right there in the middle of the line-up to give you that power potential with JJ, there’s not a lot of teams on our level that have the luxury to have guys with that kind of power. 
“So I’m hoping he stays healthy. 
We need him to stay healthy for a whole year for us to be as good as we want to be.”
Now, just two days away from 
Florida’s season opener against Florida Gulf Coast, Alonso is in a position he wasn’t in last year. He’s healthy and he’s ready for the season to get underway. 
“It’s really really nice to go into 
the season healthy and ready to win some games,” Alonso said.
@LFTorresIII
ltorres@alligator.org
BASEBALL,  from pg 13Alonso will be mask-less in 2016
Javier Fernandez / Courtesy to the Alligator
UF first baseman Peter Alonso (20) celebrates with teammate JJ Schwarz (22) after hitting a home run 
during Florida's 10-2 win against Miami on June 17 in the College World Series. 
going through the net for you, we 
did just enough.”
Still, the Gators (17-9, 8-5 South-
eastern Conference) only trailed by 
six points at halftime, largely due 
to their defense.
The Gators forced the Bulldogs 
(14-10, 7-6 SEC) into 10 turnovers and limited them to 32.3-percent shooting on the night, including just nine points in the paint.
Meanwhile, UF shot 36.4 per-
cent from the field, 20 percent from three-point range and scored 22 points in the paint.
Center John Egbunu was the only other UF player to score in double figures, collecting 10 points on 4-of-8 shooting and seven re-bounds. Finney-Smith added seven points and seven rebounds, but shot just 1-of-10 from the field in 
his worst shooting night of the sea-
son.
With the win, Florida moves 
into a three-way tie for third place in the SEC with Texas A&M and South Carolina. The Gators face the Gamecocks on the road on Sat-
urday.
A radio broadcast contributed 
to this report.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg 13Florida forced 10 
Georgia turnoversPerez-Blanco then went up against Cam-
eron Green in singles play. The Gulliver 
Prep product fell behind 2-0 to Green early in the first set of the match, only to win the next 12-consecutive games and clinch the victory for the Gators.
“I felt like I played really well,” Perez-
Blanco said. “I got off to kind of a slow start, but after I went down 2-0, I started moving my feet and started getting more 
intense and more into the match. I was 
able to stay focused from that point on 
to completion, and I played really well I 
thought.”
The sophomore has played in 11 com-
bined singles and doubles matches this 
season, which is good for the second most 
on the team behind junior co-captain El-
liott Orkin.
Perez-Blanco has a 4-1 record in singles play and a 2-1 record in doubles play this 
year, with three other matches ending with-out a victor. The Gators are undefeated this year when Perez-Blanco wins his doubles match and are also 3-1 when Perez-Blanco wins his singles match.
For Perez-Blanco, his performance in 
doubles competition is a key focus as the season continues to progress.
“I’m more of a baseliner. I feel comfort-
able back there,” Perez-Blanco said. “But if I can feel comfortable (at the net) and keep working on that stuff, I think it will 
help not only me but the team as well in 
the future.”
Perez-Blanco will look to have another 
strong performance this weekend when the 
Gators face the No. 8 Ohio State Buckeyes 
in Columbus on Sunday at noon.
@dylandrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgTENNIS,  from pg 13Perez-Blanco is 4-1 in singles play
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF's KeVaughn Allen attempts a layup during Florida's 61-55 
loss to Alabama on Saturday.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Chase Perez-Blanco hits an underhanded volley during Florida's 6-1 win against Troy on Jan. 17 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016
SOFTBALL
By Brian Lee
Sports Writer 
The Florida softball team is off to 
a scorching start in 2016. 
The Gators swept all four games 
at the USF Wilson-DeMarini Tour-
nament last weekend, run-ruling 
the quartet by a combined score of 
38-1. It was the first time since 2012 Florida has won its first three games via run-rule.
UF will look to continue its win-
ning streak when it plays a double-header against Jacksonville today. Game 1 is set for 5 p.m. at Katie Sea-shole Pressly Stadium.
While Florida’s bats have thrived, 
its weekend dominance can be at-tributed in large part to the arms of pitchers Delanie Gourley, Kelly Barnhill and Aleshia Ocasio.
With a combined earned-run av-
erage of 0.33 over 21 innings thus far, the trio allowed just nine hits in 72 at-bats.
Opposing batters are hitting a 
feeble .125 over that span. 
And of the nine hits, seven were 
singles and two were doubles. 
The only run this pitching staff 
allowed came in the bottom of the third inning against USF in the final game of the tournament. 
Gourley established the tone for the weekend on Friday night against Illinois State.
The junior threw the third one-
hitter of her career, securing a shut-out. On Saturday, Barnhill suffocated 
Michigan, striking out two batters without surrendering a walk. 
Ocasio threw a complete-game 
shutout against Virginia Tech in the first game of Sunday’s double-header, striking out seven and walk-ing one. In the second game against USF, Barnhill and Gourley combined to allow two hits and one run with seven strikeouts. 
“I thought Delanie was good the 
first day, not great,” coach Tim Wal-ton said. “On Sunday she was great. I thought she was really … masterful in some of the things she did.”
It is no surprise that Florida’s 
pitching staff has been good this season. 
With many players returning 
from last season’s 60-win team, Florida was predicted to contend for another championship in 2016. 
However, what gives reason for 
pause is just how dominant they have been up to this point despite 
the loss of star pitcher Lauren Hae-
ger, who was the ace on a pitching staff that boasted the fifth-best ERA in the nation. 
Most astonishing, perhaps, was 
the way the Gators — particularly freshman Barnhill — dominated the No. 2 ranked Wolverines.
“She does change speeds. Her 
spin is really, really good,” Walton said of Barnhill.
“They’re a really good hitting 
team. That’s the one thing that goes unnoticed when you watch a team like Michigan. We faced them and shut them out, but nobody else did.” 
@brianlee_17
blee@alligator.orgFlorida pitching staff dominating heading into home opener
Alligator File Photo 
UF’s Delanie Gourley pitches against LSU last season. Gourley and Florida’s pitching staff have been 
dominant to open the 2016 season, giving up just nine hits over the first four games. 
