We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 92 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016
Florida earns win over No. 9 
West Viginia
It was the Gators’ ﬁ  rst win against a 
ranked opponent this season, pg. 14
High Dive hosts fourth food truck rally
They celebrated the rally’s third anniversary, pg. 3
Woman charged with theft
She took prescription drugs from a Walgreens customer, pg. 5O’Dome Sweep
Check out the photo story from weekend sports in the O’Connell Center, pgs. 8-9
By Melissa Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students learned to bust a move while reg-
istering to vote Saturday.
UF’s Asian American Student Union host-
ed Pop It to the Polls for the ﬁ  rst time on the Reitz Union North Lawn. The dance work-
shop taught participants Filipino, modern and Bhangra dances. Students could also register to vote in the primaries while there.
DJ Fontenot, a UF political science senior, 
said he organized the event with the hopes of increasing voter registration among Asian Americans.
“Dance is something the AASU commu-
nity is very passionate about,” the 21-year-old said. “It is a big part of their culture. We wanted to combine it with an issue that affects the Asian community, such as voter turnout.”
At any time during the event, participants 
could register to vote through organizations, including Rock the Vote, Asian and Paciﬁ  c Is-lander American Vote and Chomp the Vote, Fontenot said. About ﬁ  ve students registered to vote.
The Icla da Silva Foundation, which aims 
to help minorities with leukemia, also regis-tered students to be bone marrow donors, he said. There are not enough Asian American donors, he said. Four students signed up.
During the event, choreographers from 
AASU taught different dances and a step rou- Asian American Student Union hosts dance, voting event
Aaron Albright/Alligator Staff 
SPARRING SWORDS
Tim Lam (left), 55, spars with Eric Souza, 27, at the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire on Saturday. Lam and Souza are both part of the Society for Creative Anachronism, an organization dedicated to re-creating the Middle Ages. The SCA has been a part of Hoggetowne since its founding.
SEE DANCE,  PAGE 4
THE LIBRARY OPENED IN 1991.
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Kendall Ackley ﬁ  rst entered the Alachua 
County Headquarters Library 12 years ago. 
Ackley, a 26-year-old UF doctoral stu-
dent in physics, said people from around 
Gainesville visit the library for its resourc-es. 
“It brings about a sense of community,” 
she said.  On Saturday, about 12 years after her 
ﬁ  rst visit, Ackley browsed the library’s nonﬁ  ction section.
Renee Patterson, a technical services ad-
ministrator for the library, said the library is celebrating its 25th anniversary today.
The library opened Feb. 2, 1991, and 
has since added more computers, along 
with resume and interview training, to fur-
ther its mission of providing community resources. 
“Anyone who needs access to the com-
puter, and so many do now to ﬁ  nd a job, can come here,” she said. “It’s not just ‘come and try to ﬁ  nd something.’” 
Patterson said the library is a Gainesville 
landmark.
“It’s a beautiful building,” she said. “It’s 
a community center and it’s been support-ed by this community through the years.” From 10 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., library staff 
are celebrating the anniversary by opening a time capsule, guiding visitors on behind-the-scenes tours and giving speeches.
Antonio Portillo, 57, said he started trav-
eling from his home at St. Francis House to the library for its computers about a month ago. 
“I come here looking for work,” he said. “My favorite thing is that you have ac-
cess to almost anything you want, really,” Ackley said.  Providing 25 years of books and services to the community LOCAL
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police are investi-
gating the death of a 20-year-old 
UF student who fell six stories from an apartment balcony Sunday morning.
At about 2 a.m., police and ﬁ  re 
rescue found Chance W. Wolf un-conscious and without a pulse at 
Social 28 Apartments on South-
west 13th Street, GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
Police gave Wolf CPR until Ala-
chua County Fire Rescue Services arrived and drove him to UF Health Shands Hospital, Tobias said.
At about 2:35 a.m., Wolf was 
pronounced dead.
In a review of surveillance foot-
age, Wolf could be seen walking out of an elevator on the sixth ﬂ  oor of the apartment and then passing through the hallway, Tobias said.
After opening a double door overlooking an interior courtyard, Wolf walked toward a 46-inch-high glass partition and appeared 
to fall over the glass to the ground 
below.
Tobias said no foul play is sus-
pected.
Wolf, of Weston, Florida, was 
a senior telecommunication ma-jor, UF spokesman Steve Orlando wrote in an email.
He was also a member of UF’s 
club ice hockey team. He wore the number 10.
Last week against the University 
of Miami, Wolf scored his ﬁ  rst-ever goal for the team — one of many memories shared on his Facebook page as friends said goodbye.
“I’m glad you got your ﬁ  rst goal 
before you went,” Matt Girello 
wrote on Facebook. “The world 
lost a great person and a better friend.”
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgUF student fell to his 
death, police sayStudents danced, registered to vote
“Anyone who needs access to the 
computer, and so many do now to ind 
a job, can come here.”
Renee Patterson
technical services administratorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Friday Program at Krishna 
House
Come and attend this week’s Friday Program at Krishna House to learn about “Impact 
of Association.” The program 
will start at 7 p.m. with Mantra Meditation followed by an ice-breaker session and a Talk on the Topic. Dinner will be served at 8:15 p.m. Make every week complete with eternal knowl-edge by attending Friday pro-grams at Krishna House. No 
registration is required! Come 
directly at 7 p.m. Please join us at Krishna House, 214 NW 14th Street.
Campus Juice Juicing Workshop
Trying to eat healthy as a life-style, not only as your New Year’s Resolution? Campus Juice 
is hosting a Juicing Workshop at 
our next meeting Thursday eve-ning. We will hold discussions on the benefits of juicing and teach you how it is done. Finally, there will be juicing demonstra-tions, and yes, that means free juice for all. We encourage you to bring your friends and any 
fruits or vegetables you can. To 
learn more about what we do as a healthy lifestyle club find us on Facebook, UF Campus Juice and @UFcampusjuice on Instagram!
Study Abroad Info Session — 
TODAYThinking about studying abroad? 
Attend an information session 
today at 3 p.m. in Heavener Hall, Room 160.  Programs are offered every semester — Summer, Fall and Spring — in Dublin, London, Madrid, Paris and Rome.  Open to all UF majors. Internships are available in Dublin, London, Paris and Rome. RSVP on 
Facebook: facebook.com/
events/1657053874544985/.
RUB Entertainment Presents 
Tie-Dye on the FlyStop by the North Lawn on Wednesday starting at 1 p.m. for some free hot chocolate and tie-dying fun. All tie-dye supplies 
will be provided, so make sure 
to come on by!
Entrepreneurship Club
Carla Jones, the chief of staff at Thomson Reuters, a multi-bil-lion-dollar company, is coming to speak to the Entrepreneurship Club about what it takes to 
scale the ranks of a publicly 
traded company. Come check it out at Heavener Hall, Room 140, today at 6:15 pm. Anyone and everyone is welcome to at-tend. Please bring your friends. See you all there. For more details, visit facebook.com/events/880959962025261.
Graduate recital: Scott Ziegler, 
organ
The School of Music presents an 
organ recital by graduate student Scott Ziegler in the University Auditorium on Feb. 20 at 2 p.m. The program includes chorale preludes, a rumba, a tango and a multi-movement tribute to Florida.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 92
HIGH  77° LOW  55°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Maria Bonaventura, Jessica Gonzalez,   
  David Hoffman, Kristine    
  Janata, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo    
  Noguerol, Isabella Rodriguez
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Levi Bradford
Alligator Contributing Writer 
High Dive continued a tradition 
of food and charity during the Origi-
nal Gainesville Food Truck Rally’s third anniversary Saturday. 
Charles Smith, the owner of Char-
lie’s Snow Shack, parked among 10 other trucks. Smith said he’s been to every rally except the ﬁ  rst one in 2013.
Since his ﬁ  rst rally, Smith said at-
tendance has grown from about 700 to nearly 2,000. 
People ﬁ  lled the parking lot of 
High Dive by 6 p.m., lining up to 
try both new and beloved foods.  
Some patrons voted for their favorite trucks by leaving money in red buck-ets at each window. Money in the buckets went to-
ward Plenty of Pit Bulls, a charity that rescues pit bulls from shelters 
that would otherwise euthanize 
them, said Jeremy Schmidt, the char-ity’s administration and data coordi-nator.
Bubba Luigi’s Road Trip, which 
serves Southern Italian fusion food, won a $100 Target Visa card after customers placed $238 in its red bucket. Owner Gill Leander said he’s 
won seven months in a row by giv-
ing donors a discount on their food.
“I tried to tell everyone how well 
it’s worked, but the other trucks all said they were too busy,” he said.
Still, Leander said his food un-
doubtedly played a part in the vic-tory.
“This is what I cook at home,” Leander said. “It’s the best of the best — for the best.”
Leander’s son-in-law Tyler Ben-
son, who owns a pit bull, said it feels good to support a new charity each month. 
“It is our responsibility to give 
back to the local community, not just make money,” he said.    
Nearby, JR Aviles and Rinnie 
Rodenius waited in line for Charlie’s Snow Shack, Aviles’ favorite stand.     
“Last year, there were not so 
many people,” Aviles said. “And I love seeing all these dogs.”
While Aviles enjoyed a Skit-
tles-ﬂ  avored shaved ice, Rodenius soaked in the rally’s atmosphere. 
“The people are really friendly, 
even if they don’t know you,” Rode-nius said.High Dive hosts fourth food truck rally
Noemi Mello, 61, the owner of Les French Crepes, prepares 
food for customers at the third annual Original Gainesville Food Truck Rally on Saturday.
Photos by T amara Dobry / Alligator
Attendees wait in line for Cora’s Kitchen food truck at the third annual Original Gainesville Food Truck Rally on Saturday evening. Over the past three years, attendance has grown from 700 to about 2,000 people.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016
Emma Green/Alligator Staff
BRICK BY BRICK
Eduard Reynoso, 23, throws a brick from the Inter-Residence Hall Association’s Writing on the Wall 
Project on Friday after helping pull down the wall of derogatory words. “It’s a good stress reliever, ” said the finance and accounting junior on throwing the cinder blocks.
CAMPUS
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
Two organizations are moving 
into the Reitz Union today.
Student Government and Stu-
dent Activities and Involvement 
are now on the third floor of the 
renovated Reitz Union. During the 
week, SAI will host free tours for students interested in seeing the features of its new office. The full Reitz will host its grand opening Feb. 20.
Students who work in these of-
fices spent the weekend moving materials, computers, files and re-
cords, said Student Body Vice Presi-
dent Kevin Doan. SG’s offices have been on the second floor of the old Reitz since Fall. 
Tori Remington, the SAI market-
ing coordinator, said she is looking forward to the move. A new graph-ic and copy center will open on the second floor behind the SAI infor-mation desk to help student orga-
nizations create fliers and graphics, 
she said.
“We are going to have a lot more 
resources in the new space for stu-dent organizations, as well as so-rorities, fraternities and Student Government,” Remington said.
This week, ambassadors will be 
on Turlington Plaza and the Plaza 
of the Americas to tell students the 
offices are open, she said.
Doan said he’s been working in 
a cramped temporary office with about ten other people.
“It’s been a long time coming,” 
the 20-year-old UF finance junior said. “I’ve been looking forward to this since I started my term.”
@MerylKornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgStudent offices open 
in the Reitz Union
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer
Students can now donate professional 
clothes to help students land jobs.
The Gator Career Closet could open as 
soon as March, said UF Student Body Trea-
surer Nicholas Carre. 
He said Student Government and the 
Dean of Students Office will launch a so-
cial media campaign Feb. 9 to inform stu-
dents when and where they can donate clothes. 
He said donated suits, shirts and ties are being held in SG offices. 
The closet will move to a permanent 
location on the second floor of Peabody Hall. 
Carre, who helped start the closet, said 
students will be able to borrow clothes for multiple interviews for up to a week. 
“We don’t want to have a burden on 
them if they have other events they have to attend,” Carre said. 
When the closet opens, clothes will be 
cleaned about once a week, he said. 
Carre said he wanted to open the closet 
to give marginalized students the chance get jobs.
“To do that, you have to go interview,” 
he said. “You have to have access to these items, and so many students don’t have access.”
Taylor Oliver, a UF exploratory fresh-
man, said she didn’t bring professional clothing when she came to UF. 
“Coming in as a freshman, it wasn’t 
really something I thought about,” the 18-year-old said. “I think this would really benefit those who couldn’t afford profes-sional clothing in the first place.”
@k_newberg  
knewberg@alligator.orgGator Career Closet now taking donations
tine. A choreographer and UF’s Fili-
pino Student Association led about 25 students in the dances.
“The Filipino Student Associa-
tion is currently prepping for Bar-rio Fiesta, a dance event that takes place in March,” Fontenot said. “So they are pretty well-versed in teach-ing people how to dance.”    
Before students began dancing, 
they were split into five groups of three and participated in a work-shop that taught them how to im-prove issues in their organizations. The workshop also discussed how they could use dance to reach oth-ers.
The participants then presented 
their ideas to everyone else. After a short break, they started dancing.   
Radhika Gopalan, a UF psychol-
ogy and sociology senior, helped choreograph the event, and she taught participants the Bhangra routine.
“Bhangra is very high-energy,” 
the 21-year-old said. “There’s a lot of variety in it, too. It has a story and a meaning. It connects me to my culture.”
Gopalan said she has been danc-
ing since she was 4. She tried out for the UF Bhangra team as a fresh-man and has been creating dances ever since, she said.
“The hardest part is making sure 
that it is something other people can pick up,” Gopalan said. “You have to make sure everyone is on the same level.”
Kennedy Ho, a UF nutrition se-
nior, danced in the event.
“Dancing keeps us active; it is 
one of our passions and brings the community together to learn about an issue: voting,” the 21-year-old said. DANCE,  from pg 1They learned to dance and face issues within their organizations
Melissa Rodriguez / Alligator 
Students learn to dance a Bhangra routine outside the Reitz Union on Saturday morning. The Asian American Student Union hosted the Pop It to the Polls event to encourage students to register to vote while learning how to dance.
CLOTHING DROP-OFF LOCATIONS:
• Dean of Students Office
• Peabody Hall
• Student Government Offices
• Reitz Union
MATERIALS BEING COLLECTED:
• Suits
• Ties
• Dress shirts
• Dresses
• ShoesIt could open as soon as MarchMONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
LOCAL
By Nate Phillips
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents waged a war against 
invasive plants Saturday.
Armed with gardening gloves and buckets, 
hundreds of volunteers removed the plants 
during the second annual Great Invader Raider 
Rally.
Hosted by the Gainesville Parks, Recreation 
and Cultural Affairs Department, this year’s 
event centered on the elimination of coral ardi-sia, an exotic plant of Asian origin.
More than 500 volunteers registered to 
combat invasive plants in 20 habitats through-out the city, according to a press release.
Stephen Enloe, a UF invasive plant exten-
sive specialist, said coral ardisia is a serious problem across Florida.
“When coral ardisia starts outcompeting 
native species, you lose those native species,” Enloe said. “And when you start pulling out native species from an ecosystem, there are a lot of ramifications.”
When the plant’s berries fall to the ground, 
they grow under existing plants, thickening the 
shrub and overall problem, he said.  
“Coral ardisia lacks a natural enemy, and a 
number of birds will eat the berries and spread 
the plant,” Enloe said. “So the problem can spread pretty rapidly.”Sandra Vardaman, an Alachua County 
lands biologist, led the rally’s Evergreen Cem-etery site.
She said volunteers cleared soil that was 
previously unseen under the plant’s dark green leaves.
“You can really see how much of a differ-
ence everyone’s efforts are making,” she said.
Still, plenty of coral ardisia remains.Vardaman said it’s crucial for volunteers 
to learn about invasive species and use that knowledge at home.
Volunteer Jacob Tillmann, a 38-year-old 
pharmacist, said the event taught his 6-year-old son, Grant, to recognize coral ardisia.
“Grant can look at a species and say, ‘Hey, 
that’s the bad plant,’” Tillmann said. “And that’s because of these events.”
After the rally, Wells Fargo representatives 
awarded the city of Gainesville a $60,000 grant to fund the Gainesville Greenway Challenge. 
The effort aims to restore 47 acres of habitat 
in eight nature parks, according to the press release.
Reflecting on the future, Enloe said events 
like the Great Invader Raider Rally will play a key role in the fight against invasive species.
“With these efforts, we can begin to see an 
increase in an ecosystem’s richness and diver-sity,” Enloe said.Volunteers work to remove invasive plants at local rally
Nate Phillips / Alligator
Jacob Tillmann, 38, removes coral ardisia, an invasive plant species, with his son 
Grant Tillmann, 6, from the Evergreen Cemetery during the Great Invader Raider Rally event Saturday morning. “Grant can look at a species and say, ‘Hey, that’s the bad plant, ’” Tillmann said. “And that’s because of these events. ”
SHE TOOK PRESCRIPTION 
DRUGS FROM A WALGREENS 
CUSTOMER.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested a Gainesville woman 
Friday evening after they said she stole 
prescription pills from a man at Wal-greens.
At about 4 p.m. Friday, Sarah Burge 
Weaver, 40, stole $180 worth of drugs that treat seizures, panic disorders and depres-sion from an unsuspecting customer, ac-cording to a police report.
The man purchased Clonazepam and 
Fluoxetine at the Walgreens on Northwest 43rd Street and momentarily left his bag on a counter, the report states.
Weaver then grabbed the bag of drugs 
and walked away, according to the report.When a Walgreens employee called 
Weaver and asked her to return the drugs, she came back and only returned the Clonazepam, according to the report.
The incident was captured on a surveil-
lance camera, the report states.
Police then drove to Weaver’s home, 
where she denied stealing any pills. Weav-er also said the Walgreens cashier put the drugs in her bag by mistake, according to the report.
When police asked Weaver why she 
left the store with an extra bag, she said that was also a mistake, the report states.
Weaver was arrested on charges of 
grand theft of a controlled substance, pos-session of a controlled substance and petit theft. Police took her to the Alachua Coun-ty Jail where she was released Saturday on her own recognizance.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgWoman charged with theftBy Rebecca White
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can now wear hijabs 
and get free henna tattoos as part of Islam Appreciation Month.
While UF’s Islam On Campus 
has hosted an appreciation month 
every February for several years, 
they wanted to have more interest-ing events this year, said Maria Ilyas, the chair of the appreciation month. The month, which will feature eight events, aims to give students an ap-preciation for Islamic beliefs and tra-ditions.“We just want to expose people 
to our side of the story and explain what Islam really is, because a lot 
of times it’s very different than the 
light that the media paints us in,” the 20-year-old said.
IOC began preparing for the 
month last summer, the UF micro-biology junior said. The first event is the Islam Fair on the Plaza of the Americas, which will run today and Tuesday. All events for the month 
are open to the public.
The events are for all students, 
not just those who practice Islam, 
said Sameer Saboungi, a current IOC member and the former vice presi-dent of external affairs. Members of the club see the month as a time to clarify rumors surrounding Islamic culture.
“Once students come out to our 
events and meet IOC members, they soon find out there’s nothing scary, mysterious or narrow-minded about us,” the UF international studies and political science senior said.
“We’re fun students struggling 
with school like everyone else,” the 21-year-old said. “IAM (Islam Ap-
preciation Month) can break any as-
sumptions people may have about IOC.”
More information about the Islam 
Appreciation Month events can be found on the IOC’s Facebook page. Experience Islamic traditions with appreciation month  
FEB. 1 AND 2:
Islam Fair at Plaza of the Americas
FEB. 4: 
Mythbusters — Islam Edition with 
Saad Omar at the Reitz Union
FEB. 5:
 Bonfire Night & Qiyyam with Saad Omar 
at the Hoda Center, 5220 SW 13th Street
FEB. 10: 
From Charleston to Chapel Hill with Margari 
Azizi Hill at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom
FEB. 15: 
Women in Islam — Hijab Day with Suzy Ismail at 
the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom and Turlington Plaza
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
High school students from across the state 
travelled to UF this weekend to debate global issues while acting in two new committees.  
UF’s Model United Nations hosted its 13th 
annual GatorMUN, a conference that brings 
high school model UN clubs to UF for a week-
end, said Jonathan Muñoz, the event’s secre-tary general. About 730 students, each repre-senting a different country, were split into 21 committees.
They debated topics such as climate 
change, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and poverty. One new committee, GRIMM: De-partment of the Crown, had students use fairy 
tales to act out mock political situations, such 
as “Frozen’s” Elsa destroying the people of Ar-endelle.
Muñoz, a UF economics and international 
studies junior, said the conference is the larg-est in the southeastern U.S. This year, more students attended than ever before.
The 20-year-old said the conference, which 
is entirely run by UF students, helps partici-pants develop speaking and conflict resolution skills.
“The most important thing is learning how 
to cooperate with people who have different ideas than you,” he said. 
Students at the conference also participated 
in the Press Corps committee for the first time. 
“They’re all so much smarter than me,” 
said Caitie Switalski, the Press Corps director. “I never expected the level of quality they’re throwing out at us.”
Emilio Arias, a high school senior from 
Miami Palmetto Senior High School, said the conference gave him the opportunity to hear other students’ ideas.
“I like how you get to interact with different 
people,” the 18-year-old said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.orgUF students host Model UNEvents begin todayThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnDozier represents 
US at its worst
As journalists, it is our obligation to maintain a cool 
head when parsing through information and draft-ing a story. Although we in the Opinions section are 
not held to the same standards of objectivity as the 
rest of the paper, it is still up to us to collect and 
pore over as much information as possible; whether our ﬁ  nd-ings align with our worldview, it remains our job to share 
and dissect what we may stumble upon in a comprehensive 
manner.
But every once in awhile, a story or issue comes along that 
is so transparently awful, so blatantly offensive and nauseat-ing, that any pretense of a calm, reassuring authorial voice 
has no choice but to be thrown out the window.
We would venture to guess when asked what an op-
pressive, inhumane prison looks like, the average Ameri-
can would most likely conjure up stereotypes of the Gulag 
in the mid-20th century Soviet Union or perhaps those seen 
in Hollywood blockbusters: Torture and dehumanization are dished out wantonly, with no regard for a prisoner’s physical or mental state; the structure itself is looming and bare, serv-ing no purpose other than to house horrors and inspire fear 
in those imprisoned.
For many Americans, the associations carried with insti-
tutions of that sort are so far removed from their daily lives 
it is utterly impossible to imagine such atrocities happening 
in the land of the free. However, not only have these hap-
pened here and continue to happen, but for over a century the punishments deemed ﬁ  t for ﬁ  ctional action heroes were committed against Florida’s children under the auspices of the state itself.
It was reported last week that state legislators Sen. Arthe-
nia Joyner and Rep. Ed Narain had drafted legislation to compensate families for the burial expenses of those who had died at the Arthur G. Dozier School for Boys. For those 
unaware, the Dozier School for Boys, situated in Marianna, 
Florida, was ostensibly meant to serve as a correctional facil-ity for young, troubled men. However, rather than rehabili-tating and healing, Dozier inﬂ  icted only pain and suffering.
An investigation by anthropologists and archaeologists 
from the University of South Florida in 2013 has only con-tributed to the fear and loathing that hang over the school, having found scores of bodies in paupers’ graves across the school’s grounds.
Beyond the stunning fact that Dozier was a state-sanc-
tioned horror, its very existence is a testament to the trou-bling and haunting realities Americans seem frightened or unwilling to acknowledge: Our government, whether in ways insidious or overt, is capable of great evil. Those who re-
sided at Dozier prior to its eventual close — poor, lower-class 
young men, both black and white — remain on the fringes of American society. Look no further at the willful negligence and disinterest that led to the crisis in Flint to see a modern 
manifestation of the sensibilities that allowed Dozier to even 
exist. Now, as it was then, those on the fringes of Ameri-can society continue to be marginalized in social, economic and physical fashion; we sincerely doubt that $7,500 in fu-neral expenses can heal the knowledge for families where 
the state, not circumstance, was directly responsible for each 
child’s early passing.
Supporting Bernie Sanders is lazy and cowardly
I am not a conservative per se — as a Jew, a 
woman and a ﬁ  rst-generation American, it wouldn’t be becoming of me to join the open-ly racist, sexist and xenophobic right wing. But if conservative could mean something 
else, it might mean this: Things exist, and exist for reasons, and we’d better think about what they are before we burn it all down.
I am not a revolutionary by circumstance nor 
by personality. I’m a risk-averse person with ni-hilistic tendencies. If I believe in the politics of anything, I believe in incremental, material change. I don’t buy dented cans or mix alcohol and Tylenol, and supporters of Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., annoy the hell out of me.
In the world of media everything is becoming homog-
enous, disposable and uniform. When Marx said all that is solid melts into air, could he have even dreamed up meta-phors as glorious as the “cloud,” where all that was old as-cends into the ether of efﬁ  ciency and ﬂ  exibility?
Both the left and the right are retreating into their ide-
ological caves to stare at shadow puppets. Just as some Americans are ecstatically guzzling down the sweet, sweet promise of glamour and a Slovenian girlfriend, many in my 
age bracket are inhaling the rareﬁ  ed air of political revolu-
tion and democratic socialism. It is simply a feeling, and like all feelings, I don’t trust it.
I don’t think it’s brave to support Bernie Sanders without 
looking into whether his policies are feasible. I don’t think it’s resistant to support Bernie Sanders despite his lack of knowledge and interest in foreign policy. I think it’s lazy and cowardly. I think it shows a profound political hollowness and, ultimately, indifference.
Sanders can do nothing more than hammer home that 
Hillary Clinton voted in support of the Iraq War 14 years ago to distract from his terrifyingly idiotic proposals, including an Iran-Saudi Arabia coalition against ISIS — Iran and Saudi Arabia don’t have diplomatic relations. Sanders can do noth-ing more than remind us he supported single-payer health care decades ago, and so did Hillary. He therefore proposes to destroy the hard-fought Affordable Care Act provisions — and replace them with one that has no political feasibility in a Republican-controlled Congress. This would certainly require reduced services to break even, has no provisions for vet-
erans, and would, according to Ezra Klein, lead 
to massive hospital bankruptcies, and to Harold Pollack, reproduce most current inefﬁ  ciencies .
The cult of Bernie is a cult of ideological pu-
rity. Insisting on perfection, it dismisses all criti-cism as pessimism, and all naysayers as ideologi-
cal enemies. For this reason, Hillary is irrevocably stained. Her problem is that she has done things, ever, in her life. In his idiotic innocence, Bernie is untouchable. In the world of 
Bernie, we can cut out the bankers, carve up their bloated, 
baleine corpses and fete ourselves in the new and irradiated landscape. Once campaign ﬁ  nance laws are reformed, the backdrop will change, the actors will don new costumes and we will march into the Technicolor sunrise of tomorrow.
This politics of perfection — of blind acquiescence to op-
timism, of deaf kowtowing to hearsay — disgusts me. The Sandino Manifesto mixed bloodlust with hatred for pessi-mists, the Great Leap Forward and the Khmer Rouge’s four-
year plans entailed lying at every level to avoid any hint of 
anti-regime backwardness and every mass movement has demanded the so-called bravery of stepping into line. Social-ism is morally hazardous. In a Venn diagram, I’m conﬁ  dent that Bernie supporters would overlap with American adoles-cents who identify as Stalinist.
We should be open to criticism. We should be pragmatic. 
If we truly care about the impoverished and disadvantaged, we should seriously consider questions like: Will this re-
quire legislation that a Republican Congress might not pass? 
Will this alienate the American center? Will this incur seri-ous budgetary problems? We must grapple with politics, not consider ourselves outside it.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish senior. 
Her column appears on Mondays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
I’m sad and disap-
pointed most UF 
students — prob-
ably an overwhelm-
ing majority — don’t 
participate in local poli-tics. We spend practically 
four years of our lives in 
Gainesville. We eat, live and spend a lot of money in this fair city. When issues of util-ity rates, transportation and public 
safety are brought up in local poli-
tics, students should pay close at-tention — is there a better time to get involved in Gainesville politics 
than right now?
The City of Gainesville elections 
are currently in full swing. This is 
a prime opportunity for students to learn about the issues and meet the 
candidates.
Yes, I know local elections are 
dull and boring. Well, fear not, dear 
reader, because last week I went to 
a Gainesville city election debate. 
The banter was lively, shade was thrown and the candidates brought forth visions of a more prosperous tomorrow. Admittedly, it was pretty 
boring. But in an attempt to make 
this dull event more interesting, and therefore make students more inter-ested in the election, I’ll do my best 
to describe the debate in unneces-
sary detail.
Democracy was on full display 
Jan. 27 in the Center for Innova-tion and Economic Development 
building. The Gainesville Citizens 
for Active Transportation hosted a debate for the four men running for Gainesville high ofﬁ  ce. These 
civically minded men were divided 
into two categories: those seeking the mayoralty and those seeking the District 4 commissionership. Their personalities and demeanors 
couldn’t be more different. Don-
ald Shepherd, longtime candidate and no-time ofﬁ  ce holder who is currently running for mayor, was 
dressed very dapperly. Small and 
relaxed, he used his debate time to connect with the crowd, pledge an oath to God and declare himself the people’s representative at least four 
times. As a former UF employee, he 
connected with the audience and proudly presented himself as “That One Alachua County Resident.” 
Adrian Hayes-Santos, a candi-
date for District 4 commissioner, is the youngest of the bunch. Pre-senting himself as a starry-eyed in-génue, he waxed poetry about his 
days helping local startups and his 
time at Santa Fe College and UF. He hammered his message home thus-ly: Gainesville must protect neigh-
borhoods, make downtown thrive 
and take care of the environment. He did this in an above-normal speaking tone. His message stood out to me. It is hard not to pay at-
tention when you are being yelled at for an hour.
Lauren Poe, a candi-
date for mayor, spoke in a nasally accent. He de-
ployed the phrases “eco-nomic opportunity,” “liv-ing wage” and “equality” in his rhetorical arsenal. 
In short, he’s Gaines-
ville’s Bernie Sanders. 
Just like the senator, he used and ﬂ  ailed his arms to their fullest effect. 
Ed Braddy, the current mayor, 
played Godot in this evening’s pro-duction. That is to say, he didn’t show up. A white place card posi-tioned in front of an empty chair 
was all the audience was offered.  
Jim Konish, a candidate for Dis-
trict 4, displayed a quiet intensity. 
His pursed lips and darting eyes 
shone brightly in the white debate 
room. He was by far the most inter-esting candidate. With great grit, he pointed out during his opening re-mark that he was a Gainesville resi-
dent while his opponent was still in 
the womb.
Konish bashed the “DEC party 
bosses” and bought politicians 
throughout the night. Later in the 
debate, when the subject of trafﬁ  c tickets was mentioned, Konish re-vealed his only serious run-in with the police involved running a stop 
sign. He quickly pointed out many 
candidates couldn’t say the same — Shepherd was recently arrested and other candidates have checkered 
pasts.
When the candidates were asked 
about decision-making, Konish 
pounced on Hayes-Santos for his involvement with Grooveshark, a 
tech company that recently went 
under. 
Konish was after blood in the 
debate. Moreover, he was the only 
candidate that talked about the “sad 
realities” of the day: that change won’t occur unless developers pay for some of the congestion they cause and the whole biomass plant 
issue. It’s nice to hear a candidate 
talk about sad realities.
Topics of consequential impor-
tance were discussed with great 
zeal. Why aren’t bikes utilized? 
Does Gainesville have dangerous roads and sidewalks? Should taxes be raised for transportation issues? Does transportation contribute to 
inequality? The great stoics and 
scholars couldn’t have asked better questions.        
This debate had everything: a 
clash of personalities, at least 25 people in the audience, jabs and barbs, one TV camera, a tired mod-erator, an empty chair and Jim Kon-ish.
In short, it was a night to remem-
ber. History will write favorably about the Santa Fe Smackdown.
Michael Beato is a UF political 
science senior. His column runs on Mondays.A local election debate 
in unnecessary detailColumn
The new generation of Barbie dolls represents many different kinds of women of different shapes and 
sizes. For many little girls, these 
dolls aren’t sidekicks – they ARE 
Barbie. Often for girls they symbolize an ideal to aspire to. Many of Barbie’s 
incarnations have been different profes-
sions, including careers in the military, medicine and public service. The point of these has been to show girls this message: “You can do it, too!”
The variation among these new and different 
Barbies is great and represents progress for the company. It is an especially pronounced far cry from a company that previously had a vice presi-
dent of design defend the original doll’s unrealis-
tic proportions, operating under the premises that it made the doll easier to dress and it was silly to think girls compared themselves to Barbie. As is now well-known, this is false. According to a 
Time magazine article reporting on the new dolls, 
“A 2006 study published in the journal Develop-mental Psychology found that girls exposed to Barbie at a young age expressed greater concern 
with being thin, compared with those exposed to 
other dolls.”
Barbie is no longer cookie-cutter; she represents 
many more women than she did before. Few, if any, people could claim their bodies matched the 
original Barbie’s proportions, even if they were 
tall, skinny and blonde. Barbie can now encapsu-late multiple bodily sensibilities.
While Barbie is a fictional character, one would 
be reluctant to say the characters we grow up with don’t have an impact on ourselves and how we understand the world around us. In fact, dolls such as Barbie have been shown to have an effect on self-esteem. In the Clark doll experiments in the 1940s, black children were placed in front of a black doll and a white doll and asked to point to the doll that had a cer-
tain quality. For questions like, “Which 
is the pretty doll?” or “Which is the nice doll?” the answer was always the white doll. But for questions like, “Which is 
the bad doll?” or “Which is the ugly 
doll?” the children pointed to the black doll. In a particularly heartbreaking part 
of the segment, the children were asked which one looked most like them, and they pointed to 
the black doll, showing how they may have inter-
nalized these perceived negative qualities.
There’s a long way to go, with representation 
for Asian Americans in particular lacking among 
the different body types. The move toward differ-
ent body types raises more questions than it an-swers. How did they decide on the proportions? When more dolls are created based on real people, what body type will they use? Will each career 
now be available in each body type? 
The Barbie website makes it look like the vari-
ation in doll types is just for the “Fashionistas” 
line, and all the other dolls will remain original. 
Why can’t a game developer be curvy, petite or 
tall? How will stores decide which dolls get shelf space and which don’t? Much of the progress that Mattel has made could be meaningless if the dolls are not available in stores and if it doesn’t reveal 
more about how these types of decisions will be 
made. I hope they don’t think that now they’ve made their dolls more representational, they are “off the hook” when it comes to all future discus-
sions of the influence dolls have on a girl’s body 
image.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. 
Her column appears on Mondays.Has Barbie caught up to the 21st century?Column
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.org
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016
O’Dome Sweep
Three Florida teams entered 
the O’Connell Center this weekend, each tasked with 
facing a ranked opponent. 
In the end — and in front of 
a combined crowd of 23,709 fans over the course of the three days 
— the Gators were victorious. The 
No. 1 UF gymnastics team bested No. 5 Alabama on Friday behind three perfect scores, the first time the Gators accomplished that feat 
in program history. The men’s 
basketball team defeated No. 9 West Virginia 88-71 on Saturday during the Big12/SEC Challenge, 
giving first-year head coach Mike 
White his first signature win as leader of the Gators. And to wrap up the weekend festivities, the Florida women’s basketball team 
defeated No. 12 Kentucky 85-
79 on Sunday, the Gators’ third win of the season against ranked opposition.
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
With the game coming down to the wire, freshman guard Eleanna Christinaki (above) scored the 
final five points to secure Florida’s 85-79 win over No. 12 Kentucky on Sunday in front of 3,231 fans. Christinaki scored 12 points and dished out a career-best 11 assists. Overall, six UF players scored at least eight points, including junior Ronni Williams (right).GYMNASTICS
With a trio of perfect scores — Alex McMurtry on bars (below), Bridget Sloan on beam and Kennedy Baker on floor — the No. 1 Florida gymnastics team cruised past No. 5 Alabama, posting the nation’s highest score of the season on Friday en route to a  198.175-197.525 victory in front of 8,867. From freshman Peyton Ernst (left) to senior Sloan, all of Florida’s gymnasts made valiant contributions in the win.
MEN’S BASKETBALL
Behind a team-high 24 points from redshirt senior Dorian Finney-Smith,  Florida upset No. 9 West Virginia in front of a season-high attendance of 11,611. The Gators shot 60 percent from three-point range, which sent the bench into continuous frenzies (left). UF had three players score in double figures, including sophomore Chris Chiozza (above), who also led the team with six assists.Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Scott Parker / AlligatorEmma Green / Alligator Staff Emma Green / Alligator Staff Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Jordan McPherson / Alligator StaffJordan McPherson / Alligator StaffMONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Available Aug 1st. Very nice 4BR/2BA house, 
wood floors, all amenities in kitchen, W/D provided. $1450/Mo, 830 NW 6th Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. Pictures at:www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-3-16-20-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
House For Rent in NW Gainesville, close to 
UF. $1250 per month 1600 sqft. 3BD/2BA, Large Kitchen, dining, living room, Den. W/D hookup. Fenced in yard. For more informa-tion & pictures Call or text 352-222-0838.   2-11-16-10-2 
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-1297 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Designated drivers are the greatest
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016
Experienced Cook Wanted
Cafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
WAIT STAFF NEEDED
Experienced only. Leonardo's Millhopper - 
4131 NW 16th Blvd, Gville.   2-2-16-5-14
Busy professional seeks helper. Good with 
tools? Like working on different projects? Want a break from the typical college job scene? Seeking an independent, self mo-tivated problem solver. Be the helper of a successful CEO. Earn money. Learn a lot at the same time. Less than 10 hrs per week. Previous position holders all became suc-cessful entrepreneurs. Unique opportunity beyond the paycheck. Tell me why you want this job: Photos2016gnv@gmail.com    2-5-16-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 23 Rides 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida gymnastics team 
earned three perfect 10s on Friday in their win over Alabama.Read the story on pg. 14.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida tennis match cancelled
The Florida men's tennis team's road match against UCLA on Sunday was 
cancelled due to rain. The Gators next face Ohio State on Feb. 21.By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Ryan Larson doesn’t shy away 
from the polls.
With the Gators ranked as the 
unanimous No. 1 preseason team 
in college baseball, the junior out-ﬁ  elder embraces them with pride.
“Just come out and watch us 
play,” Larson said. “We’re good and we think we’re good, and I think that’s all that matters to us right now.”
Make no mistake. It’s early.
The season doesn’t ofﬁ  cially 
start for another 18 days, and Flori-
da just conducted its ﬁ  rst practice of the spring on Friday.
But there’s still an aura at McK-
ethan Stadium — one that resounds the conﬁ  dence that carried over from Florida’s third-place ﬁ  nish in the College World Series last year.
Mainly, though, the Gators don’t 
want to let the preseason hype get to their heads.
“It really doesn’t mean anything 
other than that we have talent and right now we’re the best team on paper,” Larson said. “But you still 
gotta play the games.”
But the best team on paper isn’t 
always the last one standing on TD 
Ameritrade Park’s ﬁ  eld in Omaha.
And with a No. 1 ranking comes 
high expectations, which did not bode well for the Gators in 2012.
Coming into the season, Florida 
was the consensus top team in the 
nation.
The team was loaded with tal-
ent, as eight players were chosen in 
the ﬁ  rst 10 rounds of the 2012 MLB 
Draft and ﬁ  ve were chosen in the 
ﬁ  rst three rounds.
Yet UF folded in the CWS, go-
ing two-and-out in Omaha to mark a disappointing ending to what was 
supposed to be a magical season.With No. 1 ranking, Gators embracing high expectations
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
The Florida baseball team lines up on the third-base line for the national anthem before UF's 14-3 win 
over South Carolina on April 10, 2015, at McKethan Stadium.
The Florida baseball team 
has high expectations entering the 2016 sea-
son. 
The Gators are ranked 
No. 1 in every preseason poll 
imaginable, and with the sea-
son starting with a three-game 
series against Florida Gulf Coast on Feb. 19, here are four pre-dictions heading into the 2016 season.
Buddy Reed will sustain 
success from 2015: Junior outfielder Buddy Reed had a fantastic 2015 season for the 
Gators. 
Reed set career-highs in al-
most every offensive category, 
posting a .305 batting average to go along with a team-leading 
86 hits and 18 stolen bases. 
Reed was also a member of 
the 2015 Southeastern Confer-
ence All-Defensive team for his 
stellar defense in center field.
In 2016, Reed will be even 
better and will take his game to 
another level, especially at the plate and on the base paths. Reed will once again lead the 
team in hits, but he’ll also lead UF in batting average and sto-len bases, and be a top candi-
date for SEC Player of the Year. 
JJ Schwarz will regress:  
This isn’t a knock on JJ 
Schwarz. He was sensational 
last year as a freshman.
But as outfielder Ryan Lar-
son said on Friday: “The secret 
is out on JJ Schwarz.” 
Schwarz will not be sneaking 
up on anyone this season, and opposing teams will key in on the sophomore. 
I’m not saying that he’ll 
have the dreaded “sophomore slump,” but he won’t put up the same numbers that he put up last year. 
He’ll need first baseman Pe-
ter Alonso to provide protection for him to have any chance to replicate the numbers he put up last year (.332 batting average, 
18 home runs, 73 RBIs). 
Schwarz will still be good 
enough to find himself on one 
of the All-SEC teams at the end of the season, but he wont be 
as good as he was a season ago.
Logan Shore will lead the 
staff again: Junior left-hander 
A.J. Puk has gotten a lot of the 
preseason media attention for 
the Gators. 
Puk is the No. 1 draft-eligible 
college prospect, according to Baseball America. 
But Puk was the Saturday 
starter last season — basically the No. 2 starter — because Lo-gan Shore was the better pitch-
er. And he will be again this 
year. 
Shore went 11-6 with a 2.72 Four preseason observations for UF baseball
FLORIDA HAS WON FOUR 
OF ITS LAST FIVE GAMES.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
After the Florida women’s 
basketball game ended on Sun-day afternoon, UF guard Simone 
Westbrook stood at center court 
awaiting her interview with SEC Network. 
She not only led Florida (18-
4, 6-3 Southeastern Conference) with a career-high 20 points, but she also led them to a 85-79 vic-tory over highly touted No. 12 
Kentucky (16-4, 4-5 SEC).
As she waited, fans called to 
her from the stands. But as she 
waved at them and did a gator 
chomp, one voice in the crowd 
stood out.
“I’m gonna be like you one 
day,” a young fan screamed at Westbrook. 
It was unclear whether or not 
Westbrook heard her. Regardless, it illustrated how well the Gators, and Westbrook in particular, played.
Coming off an overtime win 
at Arkansas, the bout with the Wildcats would once again come down to the ﬁ  nal possession.
Down by three points with 17 
seconds left, Kentucky inbounded only to have Florida force a jump ball. 
The alternating possession fa-
vored Kentucky.
But on the next inbound, UF 
freshman Eleanna Christinaki stole the pass, took it coast-to-coast and ﬁ  nished with an easy 
layup for a game-icing score.
“I would be absolutely lying if 
I told you that is what we talk-
ed about during that little brief huddle,” UF coach Amanda But-
ler said. “We do practice end-of 
-game, end-of-quarter scenarios all the time and we did happen to practice that exact one. … We 
expected to make a play.”Women's basketball 
defeats No. 12 KentuckySEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15“It really doesn’t mean 
anything other than that we 
have talent and right now 
we’re the best team on paper.”
Ryan Larson
UF outfielder
TORRES TELLS IT
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIII14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Practice makes perfect.
Athletes have had this saying drilled into 
their heads from their earliest moments on 
the mat, field or court. You practice like 
you play, and you play to win the game. 
Things work a little differently on UF’s 
gymnastics team. 
Sit in on a typical workout at the 
O’Connell Center’s practice facility and the atmosphere paints a picture different from what you would expect out of the nation’s No. 1-ranked gymnastics program. 
Coaches and athletes joke among each 
other, laughing over music booming throughout the studio. 
The scene likens more to a friendly 
hangout than a gathering of elite athletes. Things are decidedly normal. 
And that is exactly what first-year head 
coach Jenny Rowland wants. 
“Really, we haven’t been working on be-
ing perfect in the gym or anything,” Row-land said.
You wouldn’t be able to tell based on 
UF’s performance. 
During No. 1 Florida’s win against No. 
5 Alabama on Friday, a trio of Gator gym-nasts — sophomores Alex McMurtry and Kennedy Baker and senior Bridget Sloan -—notched three perfect 10s across three dif-ferent events, a first in the UF gymnastics 
program’s 44-year history. 
McMurtry and Sloan posted the first 
perfect 10s of this season nationwide on 
the uneven bars and the balance beam, respectively, while Sloan’s perfect effort also proved to be the first of its kind in the O’Connell Center. 
“To be honest, getting a perfect 10 on 
beam, in general, is really hard,” Sloan said. “But, at the same time, (on) this team, every single one of us is capable of a 10. 
And that’s incredible.”
Baker’s first career 10 came on floor and 
helped propel the Gators to a team score of 
198.175, the nation’s highest score of the 2016 season. 
“It’s a testament of what we’ve been 
doing in the gym,” Rowland said follow-
ing Friday night’s victory. “And what they 
do in the gym and what I tell them all the time is to be normal. … I don’t know if they heard that so many times tonight, 
(but) when they’re normal in that sense, 
they are unbelievable. Really, it’s a subjec-tive sport and they (were) undeniable with those 10s.” 
What’s impressive, however, is the way 
in which the gymnasts performed. They compiled perfect 10s under immense pres-sure with a high degree of difficulty.
For example, McMurtry’s 10 capped off 
a bar rotation that saw senior Bianca Dan-cose-Giambattisto take a fall on her skill of specialty. Three Gators followed Dancose-Giambattisto, and each scored progressive-ly better than the last, helping Florida edge 
the Crimson Tide for the rotational victory. 
And, once again, that trait stems from 
the squad’s seemingly unconventional 
practice habits. 
“Again, Jenny always says ‘be normal’,” 
Sloan said. “Well, if you guys were to see what we do in the gym, we are so relaxed. We are laughing, goofing around. Whether it’s a good day or a bad day, you’ll never 
know because we’re always laughing or 
having fun.” 
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgUF gymnastics team’s perfect scores a product of relaxed attitude
Three gymnasts recorded 10s
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Bridget Sloan performs on bars during Florida’s win over Alabama on Friday in the 
O’Connell Center. 
MEN’S BASKETBALL
 By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
As February approaches, men’s 
basketball teams around the country 
are looking for big wins to give them an edge when March rolls around. Resumes are being examined for a 
possible tournament berth. 
The Gators have had their chanc-
es for resume-building wins — at 
then-No. 17 Miami, at then-No. 1 Michigan State and at then-No.15 Texas A&M. UF came up just short in each of them.
But on Saturday, in the first 
game of the Big12/SEC Challenge, 
the Gators opened eyes around the 
country with their 88-71 upset win against No. 9 West Virginia.
Florida shot 60 percent from 
three-point range (12-of-20) against the nation’s No. 2-ranked three-point field-goal defense. The Gators’ 88 to-tal points were the most surrendered by West Virginia all season.
And the win provided head coach 
Mike White with his first signature win since taking over UF’s men’s basketball program.
“It’s a huge boost to our confi-
dence knowing that we can beat a top-10 team by 20 points,” sopho-more Chris Chiozza said. “I don’t see why we can’t do that to any team in 
the country.”
After Florida posted its worst 
shooting performance of the season 
(32.9 percent) in a loss to Vander-bilt one game earlier, the Gators bounced back at home on a big stage 
against a top-10 opponent. 
West Virginia, known for its physicality and heavy defensive 
press, stymied Florida’s offense early and eventually went on a 12-0 scor-ing run late in the first half. 
But after a timeout, the Gators 
adjusted to the defensive pressure nicely and ended the half on a 9-0 
scoring run of their own.
Add in a pregame scuffle before 
the national anthem and a combined 
48 personal foul calls, and the game ultimately came down to which team had the most grit. 
With the abundance of fouls, both 
teams relied on their bench players to play more minutes than might 
have been expected. For Florida, its 
four bench players stepped up.
Brandone Francis-Ramirez, who 
was a combined 5-of-40 from be-yond the arc entering Saturday, con-fidently knocked down all three of his three-point attempts, providing nine points in 15 minutes of action. Rimmer, who filled in at center with 
John Egbunu in foul trouble and Ke-
varrius Hayes injured for a portion of the game, played 21 minutes and snatched a team-high and season-high six rebounds along with one 
block.
It was important that Florida’s 
supporting players sustain the high 
level of play set by the starters against West Virginia’s tenacious pressing defense. 
 They did just that.
“We had a lot of foul trouble. … 
We were able to just tough it out, and 
our bench got some decent stops,” Chiozza said. “Everybody should be productive when they get into the game and that’s what we need.”The win over the Mountain-
eers was the Gators’ first win over a ranked opponent under White in five tries. As far as the future is con-cerned, it’s a resume-building win, but Florida still has a tough SEC schedule lying ahead that it needs to 
focus on.
This will be a telling week for 
the Gators. They can either prove that their win over the No. 9 team in 
the country was not a fluke and that they do belong on the national stage, or they can shrink back into the pack of SEC teams that haven’t quite reached that point yet. Arkansas comes to town on Wednesday night 
and a date with No. 20 Kentucky in 
Lexington looms on Saturday.
“I think we played with a lot of effort, a lot of heart,” junior center Schuyler Rimmer said. “I think that’s what we’re capable of and I think if we can do that every game, we’re 
going ot be a really dangerous team.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.org UF helps NCAA Tourney resume with win over West Virginia
Jordan Mcpherson / Alligator Staff
Chris Chiozza signals a play during Florida’s 88-71 win over West Virginia on Saturday in the O’Connell 
Center.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
ERA in 2015 and if the indications com-
ing out of fall practice hold true, Shore has taken on more of a leadership role, which could translate to more success on 
the mound for the Coon Rapids, Minne-
sota, native. 
Puk will be good this year, and he 
might be the No. 1 overall pick in the 
2016 MLB Draft, but Shore will be leaned 
on by coach Kevin O’Sullivan to lead the staff and will reap the rewards because of it.
Florida will not win a national title:  
To me, this is simple. The Gators will not win a national title this season. 
All those preseason rankings are mean-
ingless once the season gets underway, 
and normally, the most talented team 
doesn’t win a national title when they get to the College World Series in Omaha, Ne-braska.
Take a look at last year’s champions 
and the team that eliminated the Gators, the Virginia Cavaliers. 
Virginia was just 15-15 in conference 
play, but they got hot at the right time 
and at the expense of the Gators. 
That’s how most of these postseason 
tournaments across all sports works.
 It’s almost always the hottest team 
that comes out on top, and this year, it won’t be Florida.  
Luis Torres is the online sports editor. 
Contact him ltorres@alligator.org and 
follow him on Twitter @LFTorresIII. COLUMN,  from pg 13On Sunday, Florida’s precise 
passing and patience on the of-fensive end created scoring op-portunities.
And the Gators took advan-
tage. 
Their 85 points tied their out-
put against Ole Miss for the most points scored in Southeastern 
Conference play this season. 
“We made good decisions, we 
were a little bit more patient with 
our passes,” Butler said. “But our field goal percentage definitely 
reflects good defense and better 
shot selection.”
Florida forced 30 Kentucky 
turnovers, tied with UF’s game 
against Missouri for the most 
turnovers forced by the Gators in SEC play this season. Those turn-overs led to 24 Florida points. “Florida had a great game-
plan of trying to confuse us and force us into mistakes,” Kentucky 
coach Matthew Mitchell said.
In addition to Westbrook’s 20 
points, three other Gators scored 
in double figures, including soph-omore Haley Lorenzen.
The Iowa City, Iowa, native 
was 9-of-14 from the field for 18 points. Normally more of a post presence, she also knocked down 
several jump shots in the win.
“Because of people attacking 
the paint and stuff, I really just 
got some good, open looks,” Lo-renzen said. 
Christinaki and senior Carla 
Batchelor also contributed 12 points apiece, with Christinaki scoring most of hers late. 
After starting the game shoot-
ing 1-of-8, she made all four of her remaining shots and notched a team-leading 11 assists to pro-vide the spark that preserved the victory.
But aside from individual per-
formances, Florida’s general ag-gression helped more than any-thing. 
In the game’s first three min-
utes, the Gators forced three jump 
balls and forced more as the game 
went on. 
“They played so hard, so te-
nacious,” Mitchell said of the 
Gators. “Really, really tough on 
50-50 balls — they were the ag-gressor there. And in this kinda game, you have to win that battle if you’re gonna win the game.”
Florida’s next challenge will 
be just as daunting, as the No. 10 Texas A&M Aggies come to town on Thursday. Tipoff is scheduled 
for 7 p.m. at the O’Connell Cen-
ter.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgW-HOOPS,  from pg 13UF forced 30 Kentucky turnovers
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida's Simone Westbrook attempts a layup during UF's 85-79 
win over Kentucky on Sunday in the O'Connell Center.
Like the 2012 team, Florida has all the 
ability, plus a strong set of upperclassmen — 
highlighted by experienced juniors in Logan 
Shore, A.J. Puk and Buddy Reed.
Shore, who has been UF’s Friday-night 
starting pitcher for the last two years, said 
he expects every team to be gunning for the Gators this year.
“It’s nice being put on a pedestal like that, 
but it comes with a price as well,” he said. 
“We’re going to get everyone’s best effort. Ev-
erybody is going to come out and try to beat us. But it’ll be fun.”
While some coaches may choose to brush 
the polls aside, coach Kevin O’Sullivan said 
he’s embracing them.
“There’s no way to run away from it,” he said. “It is what it is. We’re excited.”
O’Sullivan knows the talent is there.
But he also knows that the season is 
long, and it takes time for a team to gel. The ninth-year head coach also acknowledged the Gators still need to improve in a lot of areas.
“We know we have a good team,” 
O’Sullivan said. “We know there’s a lot of 
other good teams out there, but we’ve got a 
long ways to go to get there.”Despite that sentiment, O’Sullivan isn’t 
afraid to expect great things out of his club again this year.
“There’s Omaha teams and there’s Oma-
ha programs," O'Sullivan said, "and I think we’re getting to a point where the expectation is that.”
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 13Florida believes it has experience, talent to compete for title
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida's Logan Shore walks off the field after pitching during UF's 14-3 win against South Carolina on April 10, 2015, at McK -
ethan Stadium.16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
After a successful fall, the no. 12 Flori-
da’s men’s golf team is set to begin Spring 
play today at the Sea Best Invitational in Ponte Vedra Beach.
The 54-hole event will be held at Dye’s 
Valley Course at TPC Sawgrass and will be played over two days — 36 holes today, and 18 holes on Tuesday.
The tournament, hosted by Jacksonville 
University, will feature 15 teams, including No. 6 North Carolina, No. 37 Arkansas and No. 43 North Florida.
This season’s appearance marks the 
Gators’ fifth in the event. The Gators last 
won the event in 2011 under then-head 
coach Buddy Alexander. In 2015, during J.C. Deacon’s first season as the team’s head coach, they finished second.
The Gators are coming off a Fall cam-
paign that saw them steadily improve throughout their schedule.
After a mediocre seventh-place finish at 
the start of the season at the Carpet Capital 
Collegiate in Dalton, Georgia, the Gators 
finished strong, picking up two wins and a second-place finish in their last four tour-naments.
The 6,873-yard, par-70 Valley Course will be a test, but the Gators boast a bevy of talented youngsters who are more than capable of answering the task at hand.  
“I think the biggest thing I learned is how talented they are,” Deacon said of the 
Fall season. “I mean, we got a lot of depth. 
We got just a ton of skill... they all know how good they are and how good we can be.”
Talented freshmen Jorge Garcia and 
Sam Horsfield will open the lineup in to-day’s competition, followed by freshman Kyler Tate and sophomores Alejandro Tos-
ti and Ryan Celano. 
Juniors A.J. Crouch and Ryan Orr will 
be competing as individuals.
Horsfield, who finished third in the final 
tournament of the Fall season, and Garcia, 
who finished tied for seventh in the same event, will be the players to watch for UF.
Horsfield had an impressive Fall season 
with three top-five finishes in five events. 
In addition, his 71.47 scoring average led 
the team in that category.
Garcia and Tosti are also playing some 
of their best golf of the year entering Spring.
On Dec. 23, Garcia took home the tro-
phy after winning the South Beach Interna-tional Amateur — the 14th-ranked amateur golf tournament in the world — in Miami.
On Jan. 17, Garcia and Tosti placed sec-
ond and tied for third, respectively, in the Latin America Amateur Championship in the Dominican Republic.
“He’s really turned it around,” Deacon 
said of Garcia. “You know, when he got here in August or September, he was kind of struggling with his game and his con-fidence, and he worked on the things he 
needed to do tirelessly.”
The Gators will look to build on that 
confidence as the rest of spring golf un-
folds.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgUF men’s golf opens Spring season at Sea Best Invitational
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore Alejandro T osti putts during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 14. 
THE GATORS FINISHED 
THIRD AT LAST YEAR’S 
COMPETITION.
By Alfredo Morales
Sports Writer
Spring semester is in full swing, 
and for the No. 12 UF women’s golf team, it’s time for this year’s Florida Challenge, hosted by South Florida.
This is the Gators’ first tourna-
ment since they finished their Fall season at the Alamo Invitational in San Antonio, Texas. Florida finished the end of the Fall season with a score of 6-under-par, taking home the gold. 
Now onto their next challenge, 
the Gators hope to improve on last year’s third-place finish.
At last year’s Florida Challenge, 
despite season-best finishes from the entire Gator squad, UF placed behind both Miami and USF, which tied for first. 
Then-sophomores Maria Tor-
res and Kelly Grassel tied for fifth place with scores of 4-over-par (75-73–148). 
Then-sophomore Karolina 
Vlckova, who competed as an in-dependent, and then-senior Camilla Hedberg finished tied for third with scores of 3-over-par (74-73–147).
But the new year brings new 
changes for Florida. The 2015-16 season came with the graduation and departure of Hedberg and Anna 
Young. It also brought about the ad-
dition of freshmen Sam Wagner and Madison Pacheco. 
Other additions to the team in-
clude senior Laura Kanouse and junior Sydney Needham. Kanouse joined the team after a stellar ama-teur performance at the National 
Collegiate Club Golf Association 
(NCCGA) 2015 National Champi-onship as part as the University of Florida’s club golf team. Needham joined the Gators after transferring 
from Samford University, where she 
was named Southern Conference Golfer of the Week twice. 
“We had a really competitive qualifier in preparation for the Flor-
ida Challenge, and I think that will 
help prepare us for Monday,” coach Emily Glaser said in a release.  
The tournament begins today at 8:15 a.m. at the par-72, 6,114-
yard Black Diamond Ranch Quarry 
Course, in Lecanto, Florida.
@amorales_95
Florida women’s golf to tee off at the Florida ChallengeFlorida last won the event in 2011
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Junior Maria T orres hits the ball during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational.