We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 95 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016
Florida ﬁ  nalized its 2016 recruiting 
class on Wednesday
It’s the No. 14-ranked class in the nation, pg. 17
Workers cover penis graﬃ   ti 
The drawings were placed on potholes, pg. 5
Artists donate chairs for elementary school fundraiser
It supports ﬁ  eld trip transportation, pg. 8Sticks ‘n’ Stones 
Check out UF’s Quidditch club 
practicing on Flavet Field, pg. 3
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
VEHICULAR VIOLATIONS
Marcus Beckham, 23, an ofﬁ  cer in training with the UF Police Department, writes up 
a biking trafﬁ  c citation on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday. UPD said they were writing tickets in light of recent accidents. They wrote up warnings and tickets for violations such as riding with two headphones in or failing to yield to pedestrians.
By Catalina Ruiz
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF engineering students will 
bring clean water to a secondary 
school in Nepal this May.
UF’s Engineers Without Bor-
ders will take about seven students to Khanalthok, Nepal, to build a hand-washing station and imple-ment a hygiene education program 
in the secondary school, said Tay-
lor Chaisson, the Nepal project leader.
The only source of drinking 
water is from a tap that is 45 min-utes away from the school, said Matthew Burke, a 22-year-old UF environmental engineering senior. The water shows high counts of co-
liform bacteria, which could make 
students sick, he said.     
“Our hope is to provide these 
kids with clean water so they will 
go to school and stay in school,” 
Burke said.
Mackenzie Shepherd, a UF bio-
logical engineering junior, said the team will install a ﬁ  rst-ﬂ  ush sys-
tem to create clean water. When it rains, this device will collect all the 
contaminants, such as animal feces 
and leaves, found in water from 
the roof.
Once collected, the clean rain 
water will ﬂ  ow through the pipes 
and into the tank, the 20-year-old 
said.
The team will then build a hand-
washing station that is connected to the clean water tank, Chaisson 
said.This system will allow the team 
to teach the community proper hand-washing techniques that are 
instrumental for their health, the 20-year-old said.
“With their regularity of diar-
rhea, they don’t understand that washing their hands will help them not be sick all of the time,” Chais-son said.
They hope to implement the UF students to bring clean water to Nepal 
Also teach hygiene program
SEE NEPAL,  PAGE 4
TWO PEOPLE WERE ARRESTED 
TUESDAY.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
About ﬁ  ve miles from the Alachua Coun-
ty Jail, a methamphetamine lab stood.
At Village Green Apartments, down the 
hallway from where a 5-year-old boy slept, his mother aided her friend in a meth opera-tion, according to a police report.
Tuesday morning, agents with the 
Gainesville Alachua County Drug Task Force raided the mother’s apartment and ar-rested both people.
At about 9 a.m. Tuesday, ofﬁ  cers found 
Casey Marie Rush, 27, in the apartment 
with her son and her accomplice, according 
to the report. Inside the ammonia-scented apartment, police found needles, lighter ﬂ  u-id, drain cleaner and test tubes, according 
to the report.
Steven Duke Bryan, 31, told police he 
and Rush cooked meth at the residence 
the night before with Rush’s three children nearby, according to the report.
Rush has a long history of alleged child 
abuse, according to the report, and she told police that meth labs have a tendency to cause ﬁ  res and even explosions.
In September 2014, police and agents 
with the Department of Children and Fami-lies discovered there was no food in Rush’s refrigerator. In her children’s room, which smelled strongly of urine, a thin mat func-
tioned as a bed, according to the report.
Then, in April 2015, one of Rush’s chil-
dren was sexually assaulted, according to 
the report.
In September 2015, investigators re-sponded to Village Green Apartments yet again. Several anonymous allegations ac-cused Rush of drug use, inadequate care and child abuse, according to the report. 
This past January, Rush faced allegations of 
cooking meth and not tak-
ing her children to school, according to the report.
No arrests were made, 
but the investigation con-tinued, according to the report. About a week ago, Rush hid a fugitive 
in her apartment until he fell through her ceiling in 
front of police, according to the report. 
Tuesday’s arrest marks 
Rush’s ﬁ  rst felony charge.
Her previous citations 
include driving a 3-year-old child without a car 
seat, driving without any headlights and unknow-
ingly driving without a license, according to Alachua County court records. On Tuesday, 
police arrested Rush on three charges of 
child neglect without great bodily damage and one charge of maintaining a drug dwell-ing. As of press time, she remains in the Alachua County Jail in lieu of an $80,000 
bond.
Bryan was arrested on charges of manu-
facturing meth with children present, pos-
sessing with intent to distribute a controlled 
substance within 1000 feet of a school and 
possessing drug paraphernalia.
As of press time, he remains in the Ala-
chua County Jail in lieu of a $155,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice: mother operated a 
meth lab around her kids
Bryan
Rush
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Vice president for student af-
fairs candidate speaking 
Wednesday
One of the three final candi-
dates for the position of vice president for student affairs, Lori Reesor, the vice presi-
dent for student affairs at the 
University of North Dakota, will be speaking at a public forum Wednesday from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. in Smathers Library, 
Room 100. She will speak about 
her vision for student affairs at a large land-grant university and how her vision addresses 
current issues facing students 
and campuses. Faculty, stu-dents and staff are invited to attend and participate in the Q & A session that will follow the 
presentation.
The Ark School of Fitness
The Ark School of Fitness will be hosting a community fit-
ness class every Thursday at 5 p.m. starting today. The last class will be held April 21. The course is called The Ark 
Elements and will be free and 
open to all skill levels. The Ark Elements will incorporate el-ementary gymnastics and core 
stabilization exercises. You can 
expect to gain better control of your body and acquire new bodyweight skills. All exercises will be modified to meet indi-
vidual skill levels and abilities. 
The application can be found at thearkfitness.com/the-ark-elements.
Olive Senior: A reading and 
conversationOlive Senior will read from her poetry and fiction and discuss 
“Dying to Better Themselves: 
West Indians and the Building of the Panama Canal,” her re-cent prizewinning book which 
exposes a little known side of a 
monumental story Monday at 4 p.m. in the Judaica Suite. The suite is situated in the Smathers Library second floor Special 
Collections Grand Reading 
Room. An author of over 16 books, Senior is one of the most prominent contemporary 
Caribbean writers, having won 
prizes for her fiction, poetry and nonfiction. She has worked internationally as a creative writing teacher and lecturer on 
Caribbean literature and cul-ture. She is a faculty member of 
the Humber School for Writers 
in Toronto, Canada, and has 
taught in the writing programs at the University of Toronto, St. Lawrence University, Barnard College and Columbia 
University.
Register for Three Minute 
Thesis CompetitionThe UF graduate school 
will host the third annual Three Minute Thesis (3MT) Competition in March. The competition challenges doc-
toral students to present their 
dissertations to a non-techni-cal audience in three minutes or less. Preliminary heats will 
be held in March to determine 
finalists for the grand finale event March 29. Along with helping graduate students hone their communication and pre-
sentation skills, winners will 
be awarded cash prizes. This competition is open to interna-tional students. For more infor-
mation and to register, please 
visit graduateschool.ufl.edu/about-us/events/3mt/. 
RecSports Kan-Jam Tournament
Don’t miss your chance to participate in the Kan-Jam Tournament! Registration clos-es today at 5 p.m. Teams MUST 
have two players to start and 
finish games! For more infor-mation, visit recsports.ufl.edu/events/kan-jam-tournament.
“Splendor: Enchantment at Sea”
The University of Florida’s Friends of Music and Friends of Theatre + Dance present 
“Splendor: Enchantment at 
Sea,” a benefit gala for UF’s School of Music and School of Theatre + Dance on March 13 in the Nadine McGuire Theatre 
and Dance Pavilion at UF. Join 
us for dinner, a gala concert featuring the UF Jazz Band and one-of-a-kind student perfor-
mances emceed by UF School of 
Theatre + Dance alumni Nell Page and Kevin Rainsberger, a silent auction and an after-par-ty with dancing and live music 
by Jacaré Brazil and Friends. 
Proceeds from this gala event support scholarships as well as other programs that enable 
College of the Arts students to 
achieve academic, artistic and professional excellence. For more information and to pur-chase tickets, visit arts.ufl.edu/splendor or call 352-846-1218.
Six hundred gather to learn 
CPR in largest-ever mass CPR training eventMore than 600 people will con-
verge in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom on Saturday to learn CPR. UF’s GatorSavers is host-ing its fifth annual GatorSavers: 
$5 CPR and Blood Drive. Since 
February 2012, GatorSavers has certified close to 3,000 people in this annual event. This year’s event is planning to CPR certify 
600 people in the American 
Heart Association’s Adult CPR/AED during three different ses-sions: 9:30 a.m., noon and 2:30 
p.m.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Super 
Bowl: The Ultimate Tailgate-
themed event Friday from 8 
p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature tailgate games, free food for 
the ultimate fan and a comedy 
show featuring comedian Nick Cobb. The event will also fea-ture two showings of the movie “Straight Outta Compton,” at 
8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free pizza during Midnight Munchies. 
This event is free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maxi-
mum of one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 95
HIGH  70° LOW  39°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kristen Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Maria Bonaventura, Jessica Gonzalez,   
  David Hoffman, Kristine    
  Janata, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Hao Wang (center), a 19-year-old UF nuclear engineering 
freshman, charges past a defender during a game of Quidditch on Flavet Field on Wednesday night. Wang said he just learned to play the sport this past year.
LEFT:
UF’s Quidditch club meets every Sunday and Wednesday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Flavet Field for scrimmage games. The team is currently training for the regional tournament next weekend.
BELOW:
T ony Parra (center), an 18-year-old UF computer engineering freshman, chases toward the goal in a game of Quidditch on Flavet Field on Wednesday night.
Photos by Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
STICKS ‘N’ STONESBy Keiran Sheridan
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF club is running stadiums to sup-
port those with autism.
Impact Autism at UF will host its eighth 
Stomp the Swamp fundraiser Saturday at 
10 a.m. at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. About 
500 students and community members are 
expected to attend to raise $10,000. Last year they raised $9,000. 
The event beneﬁ  ts UF’s Center for Au-
tism and Related Disabilities. The proceeds will go toward the center’s safety program, 
which provides safety boxes to families 
of those with autism. The boxes include identiﬁ  cation tags and door alarms, said Michael Lattanzi, the president of Impact Autism at UF.  
“Unfortunately, you will often hear on 
the news about a child with autism who wandered off and then drowned or got lost,” the 21-year-old said. “UF CARD is re-
ally trying to push safety education and pro-
vide boxes so parents are better equipped to keep their children out of harm’s way.”To raise the $10,000, teams and individ-
ual students donate during registration to run stadiums, Lattanzi said. A football jer-
sey autographed by Tim Tebow and a bas-
ketball autographed by Mike White, the UF men’s basketball coach, will be auctioned. 
Alison Kannal, a UF elementary edu-
cation junior, said she is looking forward informing people about autism while run-ning. 
“My hope is for Stomp the Swamp to 
challenge me as an athlete and encourage 
me to push myself for a great cause,” the 
20-year-old said. “We are a Gator fam-ily that supports one another, and I can’t wait to see all of the rowdy reptiles in The Swamp.” Rima Chakhtoura said as a UF early 
childhood education senior, she hopes the community learns more about those with 
disabilities, as she has in her major. 
“Our program has a focus on students 
with disabilities, so I consider all events 
that give attention to students with disabili-ties to be dear to me,” the 20-year-old said.  
water sanitation and hygiene edu-
cation program, WASH, through games, Burke said.
“One of our main goals is to im-
plement an education program that will last in the long term,” Chais-son said. “We hope to improve 
their health as a result of us going.”
UF’s Engineers Without Borders 
has traveled to Nepal twice before, 
Chaisson said.On the ﬁ  rst trip, the team asked 
the villagers questions about their conditions, families and health. From their questions, they realized 
the lack of clean water was a ma-
jor issue. They took water samples and found it was contaminated, she said.
“All of their water is ﬁ  lled with 
E.coli-related bacteria, except for the rain water,” she said.
After ﬁ  nding this information, 
the organization decided to focus 
its project on clean water for the school, Chaisson said.
On their second trip, the team 
members measured gutters and 
buildings and performed site as-
sessments for the water-safety de-
vices they will implement, she said.
Chaisson said this experience 
allows engineers to get ﬁ  rsthand 
experience before graduation while 
experiencing a new culture.
“None of us spoke the same 
language,” she said. “But it was amazing to be able to communicate 
through acts of kindness.”4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016
Students, community running to support those with autism
Most of the water is contaminatedThe goal is to raise $10,000
NEPAL,  from pg 1“My hope is for Stomp the Swamp 
to challenge me as an athlete and 
encourage me to push myself for a 
great cause.” 
Alison Kannal
UF elementary education junior
Courtesy to the Alligator
Community members install a new water pump in Nepal during its 
2014 trip. This year, a team of about seven students will return to Nepal to build a hand-washing station and teach hygiene programs at the local schools.
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF’s Engineers Without Borders organization collects water samples for testing in Nepal during its 2014 trip.NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NORRISTOWN, Pa. — A judge refused to 
throw out the sexual-assault case against Bill 
Cosby on Wednesday, sweeping aside a former district attorney’s claim that he granted the co-median immunity from prosecution a decade 
ago.
Common Pleas Judge Steven O’Neill issued 
the ruling after a hard-fought two-day hearing, 
saying witness credibility was a factor. He did not elaborate.
In another setback for the defense, the 
judge also denied a request to disqualify newly elected District Attorney Kevin Steele from the case. Cosby’s lawyers had accused Steele of 
making a “political football” out of Cosby dur-ing the campaign.
Cosby, 78, was arrested in December and 
charged with drugging and violating former 
Temple University athletic department em-ployee Andrea Constand at his suburban Phil-adelphia home in 2004. The TV star could get up to 10 years in prison if convicted.
Cosby held his head in his hands after the 
ruling, then left the courtroom. He waved and 
smiled at supporters but had no comment. The 
next step is a preliminary hearing March 8 to determine whether prosecutors have enough evidence to put him on trial.
The charges represented an about-face by 
the district attorney’s ofﬁ  ce.
In 2005, then-District Attorney Bruce Castor 
decided the case was too ﬂ  awed to prosecute. But Castor’s successors reopened the investi-gation last year after Cosby’s lurid, decade-old testimony from Constand’s civil suit was un-sealed at the request of The Associated Press and after dozens of other women came for-ward with similar accusations that destroyed Cosby’s nice-guy image as America’s Dad.
Cosby’s lawyers tried to get the case thrown 
out with help from Castor, who testiﬁ  ed at this 
week’s hearing that he intended to forever 
close the door on prosecuting the comedian. He said he considered his decision binding on his successors.
Similarly, Cosby’s lawyers said they never 
would have let the TV star testify in the civil case if they didn’t believe criminal charges were off the table.“In this case, the prosecution should be 
stopped in its tracks,” Cosby lawyer Chris Tay-back argued.
Steele challenged Castor’s credibility and 
questioned whether the former DA ever made such an agreement, since it was never put in writing on a legal document and the Cosby at-torney with whom Castor dealt is now dead. 
“A secret agreement that allows a wealthy 
defendant to buy his way out of a criminal case isn’t right,” Steele told the judge.
 While more than 50 women have accused 
Cosby of drugging and sexually assaulting them since the 1960s, the statute of limitations for prosecuting the comic has run out in nearly every instance. This is the only case in which he has been charged.
Judge refuses to throw out sexual-assault case against CosbyTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Large penis renditions, 
spray-painted onto Southwest 
62nd Boulevard, greeted resi-
dents who drove down the 
crumbling road Sunday.
The art was strategically 
placed on large potholes and 
foundation cracks, which be-
come worse with every Sunday 
shower or hot summer day, Chip 
Skinner, the City of Gainesville 
Public Works Department mar-keting and communications su-pervisor, wrote in an email.
A public works crew visited 
the scene Monday and covered the phallic images with a black coating used for roadways. The graffiti was gone by 1 p.m., 
Skinner wrote.
Similarly, an anonymous 
artist who went by the name 
“Wanksy” drew penises on an England road in 2015, highlight-
ing its many potholes and caus-
ing them to be reported or fixed, The Huffington Post reported.
Alexis Romanoski, an 
18-year-old Santa Fe College so-cial work freshman, lives at The Woodlands of Gainesville, an 
apartment complex located on 
Southwest 62nd Blvd.
She first noticed the vandal-
ism Sunday.
“I was surprised,” Romanos-
ki said. “I looked around and was kind of like, ‘Why are there penises all over the road?’”
Romanoski said she later re-
alized it could be a way to draw the city’s attention to the road’s many problems.
“I don’t know if it’s the best 
way, but I guess it was effec-tive,” she said.
“All I know is I hate driving on that road,” she said. “I al-ways try to go a different way, but it’s really hard to avoid.”
She said the road can be dan-
gerous. 
Vehicles, especially scooters, 
swerve into the median to avoid cracked pavement and deep holes.
The road has received a 
number of complaints from resi-dents.
“The condition of 62nd is 
very poor and it is in need of reconstruction,” Skinner wrote.
According to Skinner, his de-
partment doesn’t have funding 
to make all the necessary re-
pairs to Gainesville roads.
Until then, public works 
crews continue to patch areas that are reported problematic 
by the public.
A transportation surtax on 
the Gainesville general elec-
tions ballot in November 2014 would have provided funding for roadways. Citizens voted it 
down.
Reconstruction of the road 
could begin in 2020 if the fund-
ing becomes available, Skinner 
wrote.
Romanoski drives over a 
mile out of her way to avoid the 
road when possible, and she’s unsure whether painting over 
the holes will do any good.
“I think they should just re-
construct the whole thing,” she said. “It’s too messed up to just 
take it one piece at a time.”Workers cover penis 
graffiti MondayLOCAL
By T aylor Paitsel
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s student chapter of The 
Wildlife Society has hosted an an-
nual dinner of exotic and game 
meats for the last 32 years.
On Saturday, the tradition con-
tinues at the Whitehurst Lodge on 
Archer.
Matt Akers, the president of 
TWS, said the event always fea-tures a variety of donated meats.
“Our big staple items are the 
traditional game meats,” Akers 
said. “We have things like bison, 
venison, elk and wild hog.”
Limited vegetarian, vegan and 
gluten-free options are also op-tions, he said. As for the meat, most of the animals are hunted rather than raised for agriculture, 
and invasive species are always a 
target.
“There’s a balance between 
the native species and the native 
habitat,” Akers said. “They’re 
in equilibrium almost, and then these invasive species come in and overpower everything.”
The dinner also includes raf-
fles, an exotic dish competition and a silent auction. Alcohol, pets and bonfires are prohibited, according to the event’s Facebook 
page.
Akers said about 450 people 
attended last year, and this year, he’s going for double. Tickets, 
which include all-you-can-eat access to the dinner, are $20 for 
adults and $12 for children.
Beast Feast is one of TWS’ 
only fundraisers, Akers said, and 
the money goes toward the costs 
of traveling to conferences and 
other events.
Ken Peng is the creator of “Ken 
Eats Gainesville,” which has more than 16,000 likes on Facebook as 
of press time.
Peng, 29, said he graduated 
from UF in 2008 but kept attend-
ing the dinner. He last attended 
Beast Feast in 2014 and remem-
bers the cricket brownies.
“I just thought it was a really 
cool way for people to experience game meat, and it’s pretty afford-
able,” Peng said. “It’s just a cool 
experience in general.”Wildlife society continues tradition
THEY AIM TO CLEAR UP
MISCONCEPTIONS ABOUT 
CONSENT.
By John Avery Guyton
Alligator Contributing Writer
Before Valentine’s Day, UF students can 
learn about consent.
UF’s Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Vio-
lence Education, or STRIVE, will host its third annual Cupid’s Consent Week starting Friday. The group is hosting three main events to dis-cuss giving and receiving sexual consent, Rita 
Lawrence, the adviser for STRIVE UF, said.
She said the country is changing from a 
“no means no” attitude to a “yes means yes” 
perspective. Overall, society is promoting that sex is voluntary.Lawrence said one of the goals of the 
week is to clear up some misconceptions re-garding sexual consent. She said some may 
not know that those who are drunk cannot 
give consent.  
She said the understanding of sexual con-
sent has gained national attention.
“We are in the midst of culture change,” 
Lawrence said.
Lawrence said almost no attention has 
been paid to men as sexual assault victims, in addition to women. Almost all sexual as-
saults occur with a person the victim knows, 
not with strangers.
“People don’t really realize it’s happen-
ing,” Megan Ingram, a UF telecommunication freshman, said.
A panel discussion will be held in the atri-
um of Ustler Hall to discuss sexual consent. The panelists will be graduate students, and the event is partnering with UF’s LGBT Stu-dent Affairs, Lawrence said.
Ingram, 18, said she hopes panelists bring 
in facts and numbers regarding sexual assault to emphasize how big the problem is.
The sexual consent fair will offer activities 
regarding sexual consent, Lawrence said.    
Michael Hedrich, a UF materials science 
and engineering freshman, said he hopes some of the activities address self-control and how alcohol affects decisions.
“Consent is really the only thing that mat-
ters,” Hedrich, 19, said.
If students complete at least six events, 
they can receive special prizes, such as shirts or umbrellas, Lawrence said.
“We want to make sex fun for everyone,” 
she said.STRIVE UF hosts third annual sexual consent week Isabel Bonnet / Alligator
WIZ KIDS
Students crowd around a table giving away free Wiz Khalifa T-shirts on Turlington Plaza on 
Wednesday. Khalifa will perform with K Camp at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Feb. 11.
Upcoming Events
Friday
Consent Jeopardy 
at GatorNights 
Reitz Union
Tuesday
“Loud and Queer Consent: 
An In-depth Conversation about 
Casual Sex and Health Sexuality”
Ustler Hall
Feb. 11
Consent Fair
Plaza of the AmericasThey’re hosting a feast“I don’t know if it’s the 
best way, but I guess it was 
effective.”
Alexis Romanoski
Santa Fe College social
 work freshmanThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnUF Supreme Court 
shows concerning 
lack of transparency
A week ago, we were pleasantly surprised with our 
Student Government when a constitutional amend-ment to allow online voting was approved for the 
upcoming SG election ballot. Until this point, online 
voting has remained unconstitutional, and previous 
attempts to change this have all failed. A previous editorial voiced not only our surprise, but also our excitement at the 
chance to decide to make our right to vote so much more ac-
cessible with online voting.
But now, our excitement has died away because the fate of 
this amendment is jeopardized — for no discernible reason.
Today at 6 p.m. in Room 2103 in the Reitz Union, the UF 
Supreme Court will review not only slight changes made to the summary of the amendment, but also the amendment itself for reasons that are extremely unclear.
There is historical precedent of online voting being struck 
down by the UF Supreme Court. In 2008, the Supreme Court ruled that an online voting system in SG elections would be unconstitutional and similarly exhibited a concerning dis-regard for potential student input, because a suggestion for open discussion was overwhelmingly denied. However, this 
time, the Constitution itself is what you, the students, could 
be voting to amend.
One of our major concerns is that the students who have 
worked since October to get this amendment approved for 
the ballot, Global Vote, will not have the opportunity to de-
fend their work in this meeting. How can the Supreme Court make a decision this crucial but not let Global Vote argue their case? And how can the Supreme Court revisit a decision they already made? — the day before the deadline to approve 
it, we’d like to add.
In trying to understand the impact of this meeting on the 
amendment’s place on the ballot, our reporters have been 
hung up on and ignored in their attempts to ﬁ  nd out exactly 
what is going on — information to which we and the rest of 
the Student Body are entitled. We are enraged at the court’s blatant disregard for clarity, and we feel that this lack of transparency calls into question the true intentions of the meeting.
An amendment that would, without any doubt, increase 
voter turnout and allow students — including those enrolled in UF’s Pathway to Campus Enrollment program, exclusively studying online or studying abroad — the right to vote away 
from campus without dealing with an absentee ballot is un-
der unnecessary scrutiny.
We at the Alligator call upon Associate Justices Joseph 
Lancos, Evan Malloy, Kelly Scurry, Jonathan Siragusa and Chief Justice Andy Schein to stick to their original decision 
and continue to support the placement of the online vot-
ing amendment on the ballot. Your decision will determine whether current and future Gators will have the ability to participate in SG elections. Your decision has the chance to 
allow for voting history at UF — and the chance for all Gators 
to have a voice.The Grammys don’t necessarily equal success
Several weeks ago, a comprehensive list 
of this year’s Grammy nominations was released. Despite having a nice array of talented artists present, I had to stop scrolling once the words “Taylor” and 
“Swift” became engrained in my retinas due to sheer overexposure. 
I swiftly turned my head away from the glow-
ing screen and looked out my window to admire the quaint courtyards of the Murphree Area. As I gazed over the historically old structures around me, my eye caught a girl wearing a Queen T-shirt. Instead of com-mending her taste in music, my mind wandered into the past. How many Grammys did Queen take home with such an impressive career? One Google later, I had the answer.
None.Wait, how could that be? How can the group that gave 
us classics like “Bohemian Rhapsody” and “Killer Queen” not even have ONE Grammy? Are the Grammys really that daft to not recognize such talent? More importantly, have other enduring artists been robbed of those illustrious, ﬁ  ve-pound gold trophies?
As it turns out, many have. Lasting artists such as the 
Doors, Bob Marley, ABBA, The Who, Jimi Hendrix and Snoop Dogg are just a few acts who lack Grammys.
When discussing music, one must be aware of how 
subjective the entire topic is. An individual’s musical tastes are essentially unique, which is a beautiful senti-ment. But is it really true that beauty is in the eye of the beholder? If so, then I suppose the Grammys don’t really mean anything.
I ﬁ  nd it fascinating that our culture is so ﬁ  xated on en-
tertainment award shows. Enjoying art is intrinsically no longer enough to warrant its existence. Any worthy work of art, whether it be an album or a ﬁ  lm, must have a tro-phy or strong box ofﬁ  ce receipt to show for itself.
As Americans, we like keeping record of the things we enjoy. When accomplishments are recorded and kept, competition is undeniable and the poten-tial for “ranking” subjects against one another arises. Take a minute to browse BuzzFeed or even Facebook. Ranking certain facets of our culture is as hot as it’s ever been, especially when it involves comparing past and present.
Take one step back and really think about 
our obsession with quantifying “success.” 
Who am I to tell someone his or her taste in 
music is inferior to mine? 
Why do I feel the need to hit “Private Session” on Spo-
tify when I want to blast ABBA into my ears for a few minutes during lunch? 
I believe it’s all psychological. We all want to think 
others value our tastes. However, I suppose listening to “Dancing Queen” on Spotify puts my credibility among my peers in danger, which is ridiculous, considering “Dancing Queen” is one of the best pop songs ever made.
The Grammys are certainly not a popularity contest — 
Arcade Fire’s 2011 Best Album win for “The Suburbs” is evidence of this — which is good, but I do not believe Grammy voters have better taste in music than you or me. We love it when our favorite artists win, but when they lose to Adele we call the awards meaningless. 
So, which is it?Nobody stops listening to an artist when they don’t get 
a Grammy; enjoyment is simply not that shallow. Gram-mys exist to acknowledge excellence in the music indus-try, but the best part about them is that outside of one night in February, they don’t mean much. So, go on and continue listening to what makes you happy and revel in the knowledge that music will still be there for you to en-joy, regardless of which artists took home a faux-gilded gramophone.
Andrew Hall is a UF ﬁ  nance sophomore. His column 
appears on Thursdays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
At the time of writing, it 
has been less than 24 hours since the results 
of the Iowa caucus were 
released. Although the 
results proved interesting, Iowa is far from the final arbiter of 
the primary process. 
In fact, it is really just the be-
ginning. 
However, the results may yet help pave 
the way as to how the rest of the primary 
season will turn out.
The Iowa caucus has been notorious 
in recent years for failing to predict the 
eventual Republican Party nominee. Even so, Ted Cruz’s victory has exposed weak-
nesses in Trump’s strategy. 
I am willing to predict that Cruz will get 
a lot of media buzz and campaign dona-
tions for his win in Iowa, but he will have 
trouble finding evangelicals, the group of 
conservatives he polls most strongly with, in the next couple of states. Nevertheless, Ted Cruz showed everybody that Donald Trump is not invincible in the political 
arena.
If any other candidate had gotten sec-
ond place they would have been consid-
ered a winner in some type of manner, 
but for Trump, he might as well have fin-
ished last. If anything could and should be learned from Iowa, it is that Trump needs a change in strategy. 
Simply being a celebrity and going 
out to speak will not get your supporters to mobilize and vote for you: An actual campaign apparatus will be needed on the ground. This could be a problem for 
“Super Tuesday” when a campaign that 
has proved inadequate in getting a single state to mobilize voters has to contend with seven. 
Trump has to become organized like 
the establishment he is trying to fight, or he is doomed to repeat the errors of Iowa. Most importantly, he should probably not talk about polls anymore, seeing as how 
most of them were wrong. Trump will 
probably win New Hampshire, but his fu-ture beyond that is a bit shaky.
Marco Rubio had one of the best nights 
of any Republican nominee by far, plac-ing in the expected third but gaining a much larger vote than anybody had anticipated. He 
nearly matched Trump in per-
centage of vote and tied with him in delegates. 
If you are a moderate Repub-
lican who has been looking for relative normalcy within this turbulent election cycle, Rubio 
may be who you are looking for. In the next couple of weeks everybody should 
keep an eye out for him on the campaign 
trail.
On the Democratic Party side it was a 
close race, with literal coin tosses hap-
pening in some precincts in order to de-
cide between Hillary and Bernie. 
If anything can be learned from this, it 
is that the Democratic primary process is going to be a lot longer than anybody had 
predicted a couple of months ago. 
Sanders’ traction in a heavily rural 
state like Iowa not only shows that his 
messages are resonating with a lot of peo-
ple, but the places that would typically go 
to Clinton may not be that easy to win now. This close clash in Iowa can only help Sanders and may prove dangerous to the Clinton camp, who certainly do not 
want a drawn out primary season.
Even though New Hampshire is only 
a week away, there are a couple of key 
things still up in the air. 
The rhetoric is naturally going to 
change, but there is also another debate for the Republican candidates this week-end, and any gaffe or “moment” could tip New Hampshire to an unexpected winner. 
But for now, the predictions are set on 
Sanders and Trump, which seems to be a likely outcome since most voters in New Hampshire are independent. 
Time will only tell who the winners 
will be, but I can now say with a little more confidence the idea of a Trump presidency is becoming a little bit more absurd.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Thurs-days.What Iowa means for the road aheadColumn
Several days ago, a col-umn published in this paper accused those 
who support Sen. Bernie 
Sanders, I-Vt., for the 
Democratic nomination of being “lazy and cowardly.” Now, be-
ing a Sanders supporter — there 
goes my shot at ever being a pub-lic servant — sure, I do not nec-essarily see myself as brave. I get scared of simple things, like heights, clowns and 
people with two first names, like Taylor 
Scott, Jennifer Lawrence or Zachary Lee. But cowardly? I’ll have you know I once had a bowl of nails for breakfast. Without 
any milk.
As for the laziness? Perhaps accusations 
of this nature — like accusing me of writ-
ing this article in my underpants on my couch while inebriated — are not entirely 
unfounded.
But cowardly is not the right word. Sure-
ly a word like cowardly would be relegated 
to accusations that don’t talk about issues 
or policies, but rather, blatantly incorrect 
concepts like feasibility. Such accusations are as misguided as they are cowardly, be-cause they sidestep substantive discussion on controversial issues.
Moreover, such accusations remind 
me of those lobbed at socialist President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who did such a terrible job in office that Congress had 
to enact term limits after he had been re-
elected four times by the American people.
So when I read things like this, hon-
estly, very articulate and comprehensive column that accuses Sen. Sanders and his 
politics of lacking feasibility and or practi-
cal knowledge, I can’t help but cringe.
In terms of feasibility, I’m confident 
when I say Sanders has learned something 
about legislative compromise in his com-
bined 25 years in Congress — 16 years as a House representative, nine as a senator. He’s actually been nicknamed the “Amend-ment King” by peers because of his willing-
ness to negotiate with those on the other 
side of the aisle. These conservatives, mind you, range from the ideological extremes like Jim Inhofe, to truly honorable individ-uals like John McCain.
With regards to critiques on 
his foreign policy experience, or 
lack thereof, Sanders has con-
tinually demonstrated competen-cy. In 2003, the senator openly criticized launching Operation 
Enduring Freedom — the fancy 
way of saying the Iraq War — since America has not officially 
declared a war since World War II. Had the United States not engaged in Operation En-
during Freedom, it is frighteningly safe to 
say ISIS would not exist, and UF students would not be embarrassed explaining what the Integrated Student Information System 
is to family and friends. Seriously, Jewish 
parents of mine, I’m switching out of a class, nothing more.
But not everything in that column was 
claimed undeservedly. At one point, the 
columnist wrote, “supporters of Sen. Ber-
nie Sanders, I-Vt., annoy the hell out of me,” and honestly, I kind of agree with this sentiment. I’m often embarrassed by fellow 
Bernie supporters, the same way I imagine 
vegans and people who do CrossFit are an-noyed by members of their community who come across as rude, obnoxious and often-times condescending. I’m also irritated by 
people who have made his campaign their 
latest trend, like Beanie Babies or kale.
However, there is nothing cowardly 
about backing the candidate with more 
formal political experience than Secretary 
Hillary Clinton, Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, or Asshole Trump. There is nothing cow-ardly about supporting the only candi-date with a police record — granted, he 
was arrested for resisting arrest during a 
demonstration against segregation, which isn’t nearly as cool as freeing Pussy Riot. There is nothing cowardly about voting for 
the man whose constituency wanted him 
to represent them for 25 straight years, and is now overwhelmingly backing him for the Oval Office. But I’ll give it to you, ma’am. You’re absolutely right that there 
is nothing “brave” in electing the man who 
is qualified, experienced, sensible, aware and, most importantly, unaffected.
Zachary Lee is a UF philosophy junior.Sanders: The 'cowardly' candidate?Column
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.org
Zachary Lee
Speaking Out8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016
Kat Anthony/Alligator
HUNGRY MONKEYS
Veronika Blanco, a caretaker at Jungle Friends Primate Sanctuary, feeds peanuts to her brown-faced 
capuchin monkeys for their afternoon treats. Most of the monkeys Blanco cares for come from medical testing centers and live out the rest of their lives with other capuchins at the sanctuary.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 15 Alachua County 
residents met at Hawthorne Mid-
dle and High School on Tuesday 
night to answer one question: 
What needs improvement in Alachua County schools?   
Southern Legal Counsel host-
ed the meeting, and the next dis-cussion is scheduled for Tues-day at Buchholz High School.
For reasons discussed at the 
meeting, SLC is going to trial 
for a lawsuit against the Flori-
da State Board of Education on March 14.
Dan Boyd, a former Alachua 
County superintendent, said Florida provides $2,000 less per student than the average state.
The Florida Legislature man-
dates certain class sizes, com-
puters for testing, school se-
curity, end-of-year exams and online classes, Boyd said. How-ever, the state fails to fund its 
mandates, he said.
The requirements, coupled 
with a lack of funding, make it 
hard for students to meet the 24-credit-hour high school re-
quirements and still participate 
in electives and extracurricular activities, Boyd said.
He said legislatures take 
money from lobbyists and pass laws without proper funding.
“I hope that we can prevail 
in this,” he said, referring to the SLC lawsuit. “It is some-thing that can be done to help save public education, the route 
we’re taking now is absolute de-
struction.”
Libby Hartwell, the principal 
of Hawthorne Middle and High 
School, said scarce resources 
are putting students’ education at risk.
“Right now we are stretching 
as thin as we can,” she said.
Erin Scarborough, the presi-
dent of the J.J. Finley Elemen-tary School PTA, said the SLC lawsuit gives her and other like-
minded people a voice.
“This won’t be the end, this 
is only the beginning,” she said.Counsel discusses state 
education lawsuitTHIS WAS THE 
SECOND DAY.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Near Weimer Hall, Shanshan Cao, 
22, took a moment to write down a 
change she hopes to see at UF.
“I think there should be more 
(food) diversity and more healthy 
kinds of food,” the UF biotechnology senior said. “I don’t like fried food.”
On Wednesday afternoon, stu-
dents from both Access Party and 
Impact Party lined paths from the Reitz Union to Turlington Plaza. As part of both parties’ platform genera-tions, students wrote down ideas to improve UF.
Lillian Rozsa, the Student Body 
treasurer candidate for Access Par-
ty, talked to students on Turlington 
Plaza.
“I think it’s important that their voices are heard, and we’re out here 
listening,” the 20-year-old UF po-
litical science and women’s studies sophomore said. 
Sen. Avery Smith (Impact, Dis-
trict B) stood on Turlington, talking to students.
“I think it’s really important to 
hear what students have to say,” Smith said. 
Sammy Boursiquot, 18, wrote 
“unbanning hoverboards” on one of Impact’s chalkboards. He said he used his hoverboard to get across 
campus, but the ban on them in Re-
gional Transit System buses means he can’t bring it to campus anymore. 
“I own one and I love riding 
mine,” the UF accounting freshman said. “I just feel like it limits who owns (a hoverboard).”
Blake Murphy, the Impact Party 
campaign manager, said their chalk-
boards were constantly filled and 
erased. 
“I believe students are confident that Impact Party is a party that’s 
going be able to take their ideas and 
turn it into action on campus,” he said.
Murphy said Impact will continue 
platform generation online through-out the weekend. Access Party will continue platform generation on Tur-lington and at the Reitz through the end of the week.
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org SG parties continue platform generation with student input
LOCAL
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a 
Gainesville man early Wednesday morning after they said he entered a woman’s apartment and sucked on her hands as she slept.
At about 4:40 a.m. Wednesday, 
Mike Wayne Harrell, 64, walked in through the woman’s unlocked front door and found her asleep on the couch, according to a police report.
Harrell climbed on the sleeping 
woman and began to suck on her hands, according to the report.
When his licking woke the wom-an up, Harrell then began to touch her breasts through her shirt, ac-
cording to the report.
The woman 
struggled to get 
Harrell off, and she called for help. The wom-an’s boyfriend 
was sleeping in another room 
and began to 
fight with Harrell. 
The intruder then escaped the apart-ment, according to the report.
The woman’s boyfriend chased 
him before calling police, according to the report.Harrell later told police he want-
ed to find a woman and have sex, 
according to the report.
“I was sucking on her hands,” he 
said, according to the report.
Gainesville Police spokesman 
officer Ben Tobias said this case 
should be a reminder for residents to lock their doors.
Police arrested Harrell on a charge 
of burglary with assault or battery.
Authorities took him to the Ala-
chua County Jail, where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $25,000 bond.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgLocal man sucks on woman’s fingersBy Paris Olkes
Alligator Contributing Writer
Inside a repurposed industrial building, the 
Seventh Annual Musical Chairs Fundraiser will take place Friday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Cheryl Poe, the president of Friends of El-
ementary Arts Inc., said money raised at the 
event goes toward transportation for kids from 25 Alachua County elementary schools to go 
on field trips to experience art and music.
The venue, which currently houses the 
new Gainesville Fine Arts Association gallery, is situated at 1314 S. Main St. It was donated to accommodate up to 300 estimated guests, Poe said.
Last year, about 150 people attended. 
Along with attendance, she hopes to double last year’s total money raised to $10,000.
The event coincides with the gallery’s 
monthly themed art show by showcasing both GFAA art displays and items for auction, said Alfred Phillips, the gallery director. February’s themes are love and compassion, but the auc-tion items have a variety of decorations.
The event’s proceeds will come mostly 
from a silent auction that includes recycled 
chairs and painted cigar boxes. About 50 local 
artists donate the chairs, which start at $125, and the boxes, which start at $50, Poe said.Linda Henderson, the coordinator of the 
artists and chairs, started donating art for the silent auction at the first event.
Before the fundraiser, Henderson said she 
applied for grants before taking her students to the Samuel P. Harn Museum, which cost about $275 between transportation and a sub-stitute teacher.
“Many of my students had never been to 
an art museum,” Henderson said. “It was a great experience for them.” Artists donate chairs for elementary school fundraiser
It supports field trip transportation
Tuesday Meeting 
Buccholz High School
6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
5510 NW 27th Ave., 
Gainesville, FL 32606
Feb. 11 Meeting 
Newberry High School
6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
400 SW 258th St, 
Newberry, FL 32669
Southern Legal Counsel
1229 NW 12th Ave., 
Gainesville, FL 32601
(352) 271-8890Harrell
Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Playhouse debuts ‘Next to Normal’
Show begins Friday, pg 12Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game: 
“The Ofﬁ  ce” edition, pg 10THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By RaSheba Jones
Avenue Writer
The Gainesville music scene is 
getting a taste of Nashville.
Nashville bands Moon Taxi 
and The Lonely Biscuits are per-
forming Friday at High Dive, lo-cated at 210 SW 2nd Ave.
“We’re trying to put on a show 
with a ton of energy and person-ality to give something for people to go crazy for,” said Grady Wen-rich, a 22-year-old guitarist and the lead vocalist for The Lonely 
Biscuits.
Other band members include 
22-year-old bassist Nick Byrd and 
23-year-old drummer Sam Gidley.
The three-man band formed in 
2011 at Belmont University.
“Sam and I were random 
roommates, and Nick lived across the hall,” Wenrich said.
The band originally wanted to 
be called The Gravy and the Bis-cuits. 
However, when they realized 
it would be harder to trademark that name, they settled for The Lonely Biscuits, Byrd said.
In November 2015, The Lonely 
Biscuits headlined at High Dive during their ﬁ  rst-ever Florida show.
Now, the band is coming back 
to open for Moon Taxi.
“We tour a lot with (Moon 
Taxi),” Gidley said. “We are not fully on tour with them, but we 
are doing ﬁ  ve shows with them.”
Moon Taxi’s current lineup in-
cludes Spencer Thomson on gui-
tar, Wes Bailey on keyboard, Tom Putnam on bass, Tyler Ritter on 
drums and Trevor Terndrup on 
guitar and lead vocals.
Before they were Moon Taxi, 
Terndrup and Putnam formed a band called Apex during their high-school years in Birmingham, Ritter said.
The current lineup kicked in 
when they decided to move to Nashville to attend Belmont Uni-versity, where Tendrup and Put-nam met Thomas in the dorms.
The three of them were origi-
nally the backing band for a hip-hop group called Blaze & Knowl-edge, but they eventually started 
doing their own shows in Nasville 
as Moon Taxi, Ritter said.Another piece of the band was 
added after a party in Nashville.
 There, the three original mem-
bers met Ritter. They met Bailey 
six months later.
Ritter said the band’s most re-
cent album, “Daybreaker,” which 
was released in October 2015, represents a current look at how 
the band has matured over the 
years.
 There are elements of all 
walks of life based on real experi-
ences they’ve faced.
Moon Taxi will play tunes 
from “Daybreaker” during Fri-
day’s show, along with songs from its  entire catalog, which 
spans across ﬁ  ve albums in the 
last nine years. 
The Lonely Biscuit released 
an EP in November and plans on 
playing the entire EP on Friday.
With a few EPs under their 
belt, The Lonely Biscuits are 
ready to release an album over the summer.  
The band draws inspiration 
from personal occurrences — even the most unusual of them.
“There is one song about a 
deer that died in our backyard,” Wenrich said. “There was a deer that got scared, ran into our neighbor’s yard and fell into our yard.”
The bandmates, who live to-
gether in Nashville when they’re not touring, decided to bury it in their yard.
It later turned into inspiration 
for a song.
“It died with a purpose,” he 
joked.
If they’re not home writing 
songs, practicing sets and record-ing demos, the band is on the road searching for their usual prospects: coffee shops and re-
cord stores.
On tour, the band enjoys inter-
acting with fans after shows. 
They welcome anyone to a 
meet-and-greet with them.
“After our show we will go 
straight to the merch table,” Wen-
rich said. “If you want to meet us, you just come and we can sign 
something, or just shake hands, 
take a picture or give a high ﬁ  ve!”
Show doors open at 9 p.m., 
and tickets are available for $14 at the door or $12 in advance on 
ticketﬂ  y.com.  Moon Taxi, The Lonely Biscuits to perform at High Dive  
MUSIC
ABOVE:
Moon T axi will play songs 
from its recently released album “Daybreaker” at its show on Friday. 
“W e’re trying to put on a 
show with a ton of energy 
and personality to give 
something for people to go 
crazy for.”
Grady Wenrich
guitarist and the lead vocalist       
for The Lonely Biscuits
LEFT:
The Lonely Biscuits will re-turn to High Dive to open for Moon T axi. Doors open at 9 p.m., and tickets are available for $12 online or $14 at the door. 
Photos courtesy to the Alligator
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Avenue Writer
This show deserves all of the Dundies.
Although the ﬁ  ctional workers of 
Scranton’s Dunder Mifﬂ  in left the 
air in 2013, it’s still fun to enjoy the 
shenanigans in which the characters are wrapped up.
With Dwight (Rainn Wilson) and 
Jim (John Krasinski) constantly feuding and Michael (Steve Carell) continuously ﬁ  nding excuses to throw parties, “The Ofﬁ  ce” includes some of the most lovable, comedic characters to ever air. 
Watch (or rewatch) all nine seasons to witness ofﬁ  ce drama and romance unfold. Whether you’re cheering on Pam (Jenna Fischer) and Jim’s  relationship 
or rolling your eyes at Michael’s 
predictability, you’ll be hooked on the show more quickly than it takes Michael to hire a female employee. 
What better way to enjoy one of the 
greatest mockumentary shows than getting completely sloshed?
Now all you need is your favorite 
alcoholic beverage, a Netﬂ  ix-streaming 
device and this list.Take a sip when…
 Michael offends or annoys 
Pam
 Dwight and Angela exchange 
glances
 Someone discusses a secret in 
the break room
 Michael calls a meeting in the 
conference room
 Jim looks at the camera
Take a shot when…
 Someone new walks into the 
ofﬁ  ce
 Michael says, “Thatʼs what she 
said!”
 You want to pinch Kevinʼs 
cheeks Bob Vance from Vance 
Refrigeration makes an 
appearance
 David Wallace comes into the 
Scranton ofﬁ  ce
Finish your drink when…
 Something Creed says creeps 
you out
 The ofﬁ  ce congregates in the 
warehouse
 Michael makes a promise he 
cannot keep
 Roy and Jim interact with each 
other
 Someone makes a spontaneous 
trip and abandons the ofﬁ  ce
MEDIOCRE ADVICESpring Break Ideas, Pregnancy
Dear Mediocre,
Where is the best place to go for Spring 
Break on a budget?
- Cheap Traveler
Dear Cheap Traveler,If you’re looking for excitement and 
adventure this Spring Break, then there is no other dream destination like your mom and dad’s house. Especially if you’re a penny-pinching cheapskate. Think of it this way: a nice warm sofa, a refrigerator 
stocked with food that magically replen-
ishes itself and, best of all, no chance of contracting any sexually transmitted dis-eases.
If you’re trying to get a tan, volun-
teering to mow your folks’ lawn is a nice way to say, “Thank you for letting me be a bum and continue to mooch off of you.” If you wanted to get into the water, forget the beach, 
which is so last year. Instead, 
just suit up and prepare your-self to spend ﬁ  ve hours inﬂ  ating a kiddie pool from Wal-Mart. 
No sharks in there. I like to pro-
mote a safe Spring Break.
Cheers,Mediocre
Dear Mediocre,
How do I tell my signiﬁ  cant other that I 
am pregnant?
- Can’t Fit Into My Jeans
Dear Can’t Fit Into My Jeans,First things ﬁ  rst: Pop open the button on those suckers and let it all hang out. Didn’t you know that pregnancy is trendy? It’s all the 
rage, especially among young 
couples who have no idea what they want for the future. In fact, the more uncertain you are, the 
better.
If I were you, I would keep 
things pretty low-key. You nev-
er want to ambush your signiﬁ  cant other 
with news like this in a public place. Wait 
for a family gathering, like a birthday or 
any other occasion where all family mem-bers are present. You’ve got to share that love with everyone. I would deﬁ  nitely 
make it known that this pregnancy was 
unplanned and that you are apprehensive about the whole thing. Remember, the more uncertain, the better.
Also, make sure to hire a very expen-
sive photographer to capture the entire 
thing on camera. Privacy is a thing of the 
past. You want to upload these gems to Facebook as soon as possible. Even if you haven’t told your extended family, you 
deﬁ  nitely need to share the news with ev-
eryone on your Facebook Timeline. Even that girl in high school who let you borrow a tampon in the bathroom once. Spread the love! Everyone should share in your 
joy.
Best wishes,
Mediocre
Send your questions to mediocre.alliga-
tor.advice@gmail.com and together we’ll 
ﬁ  nd solutions to your dilemmas. 
Julia Nevins
Avenue WriterBy Macey Wilson
Avenue Writer
Bradley Searles never imagined he would be involved 
in drama.
Having chosen drama as a school elective because it 
was one of three choices, the actor didn’t plan to be cast 
in a full-length production. Now he’s playing Henry in the 
Gainesville Community Playhouse’s production of “Next 
to Normal,” a play about mental illness.
Searles was exposed to the playhouse in 2007, when 
an old high school friend acted in “Seven Brides for Seven Brothers.”
“He had me come and join the cast because they needed 
another guy,” Searles said. “Since then, I’ve done a couple shows here and there.”
Now, Searles plays a well-intentioned marijuana fanatic 
who takes special interest in the lead character’s daughter.Directed by Dan Christophy, the play had its Gainesville 
debut Friday and will run until Feb. 21. Nighttime shows are at 8 p.m. Thursday, Friday and Saturday, and daytime 
shows are at 2 p.m. Saturday and Sunday. Tickets are $20 
for regular admission, $16 for seniors and $12 for children or students with school IDs.
Dan Christophy, whose previous directing credits at the 
playhouse include “Les Miserables,” “Thoroughly Mod-ern Millie,” “Hello Dolly,” “Aida” and “The Adventures of Tom Sawyer,” said one of his favorite parts of the rehears-al process is when an actor ﬁ  nally starts to understand his or her character.
“There’s a moment where they click,” he said. “And 
then they are the character.”
The play focuses on actress Susan Christophy’s char-
acter, Diana Goodman, a mother and wife dealing with bipolar disorder. However, her character’s problem is that she isn’t dissatisﬁ  ed with her disorder and hallucinations.
“Because of that, she doesn’t ﬁ  ght it,” Susan Christophy 
said. “As a matter of fact, she doesn’t like medications, which a lot of people with bipolarism don’t like their medi-
cations, because it makes them feel nothing. They do not 
feel like themselves.”
Despite this ﬂ  aw, the actress still enjoys her character.“I love her spirit,” she said of her character. “It’s there.”Brittney Kelly plays Natalie, Goodman’s 16-year-old 
daughter who isn’t afraid to let her voice be heard.
“She will say whatever it is that comes to her mind,” 
Kelly said.
Kelly, who starred as Mary in “Mary Poppins” dur-
ing the last Gainesville Community Playhouse show, ﬁ  rst found out about the play from friends who saw it on Broadway.
In fact, it was seeing it on Broadway that inspired Dan 
Christophy to direct the show in the ﬁ  rst place. Because the story deals with the serious issue of mental illness, he saw it as a way to start a dialogue.
“It’s kind of a topic that’s close to my heart, and I want-
ed the opportunity to present it to our community,” Dan 
Christophy said. “Mental illness is kind of something that’s 
disregarded and not paid attention to.”
Unlike a Broadway show, the playhouse is run almost 
completely by volunteers. Dan Christophy believes the the-ater’s ability to sustain itself on volunteer work is part of what makes it unique.
“It’s all community-driven,” he said. “It’s people who 
love to do it. It’s not people being forced to do it or paid to do it; they just come out because they want to do it.”
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gainesville Community Playhouse is commu-
nity-driven and run almost all by volunteers.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator
“Next to Normal, ” a show about mental illness, will run at Gainesville Community Playhouse from Friday to  Feb. 21. Tickets are $20 for regular admission, $16 for seniors and $12 for childen and students.
Playhouse debuts ‘Next to Normal’ By Lauren Fernandez
Avenue Writer
In honor of Black History Month, the Matheson History 
Museum will debut a new exhibition to the public Tuesday.
The museum will examine the hidden histories of sites 
on the Florida Black Heritage Trail in and around Alachua 
County.
The free exhibition, titled “Long Road to Freedom: The 
Florida Black Heritage Trail,” will examine some of the his-toric landmarks commissioned for preservation in Florida, said Rebecca Fitsimmons, a Matheson curator and archivist. The museum exhibit will be accompanied by visiting guest speakers throughout February and March.
Fitsimmons said she believes the exhibition will be mean-
ingful for the public.
“It’s a wonderful opportunity to explain a lot of the com-
plexities related to quite a long span of history within this state,” she said. “My hope is that people will come in and become interested and inspired to maybe learn on their own about some element that they found intriguing or peaked their curiosity.”
Fitsimmons said she has put together an exhibit includ-
ing powerful images, documents and photographs, as well as 
interactive voice recordings.
Peggy Macdonald, the executive director at the Matheson, 
said the exhibition would revolve around landmarks both 
marked and unmarked.
“On the Florida Black Heritage Trail, there are physical 
buildings that still exist like the Cotton Club, and that’ll be part of our exhibition, but there are other landmarks that have gone, such as the Union Academy, which was the Freedmen’s Union school that was built here after the Civil 
War in Gainesville,” Macdonald said. “Although the Union 
Academy building is no longer there, the site is important, and there’s no historical marker.”
Macdonald said the museum hopes the exhibition will 
lead to a community partnership to create a historical marker at Union Academy.
The ﬁ  rst event planned at the Matheson for the exhibi-
tion will be today at 6 p.m. It will be a panel presentation on Rosewood, a part of Florida in Levy County that was home 
to a racial riot and atrocity in January 1923. Three Rosewood 
history experts — Gary Moore, David Colburn and Sherry DuPree — will present on the hidden history of the Rose-wood area.
Gary Moore, a journalist and the author of the new book, 
“Rosewood: The Full Story,” will be the highlighted speaker of the event and will participate in a book signing, Macdon-ald said. Moore was the ﬁ  rst reporter to unearth the story of Rosewood in 1982. The Rosewood atrocity resulted in the 
deaths of six individuals and the destruction of a community.
“The focus of his work is deciphering what really did hap-
pen at Rosewood,” Macdonald said. “He is also trying to pre-
serve evidence of the Rosewood atrocity through his book and otherwise. It’s important work that needs to be done.”
The darker history of Rosewood, as well as the history 
of the Newberry Six — a case in which six individuals were brutally lynched in 1916 — are two tragic pieces of Florida history that the Matheson will examine as part of the exhibi-
tion, Macdonald said.
“We want to examine even the more uncomfortable parts 
of history so that we can learn from them and question where 
we are today, how far we’ve come and how far we have to go,” Macdonald said.GNV Museum 
examines Florida black history through exhibit 
LOCAL
“W e want to examine even the more uncomfortable 
parts of history so that we can learn from them and 
question where we are today, how far we’ve come and 
how far we have to go.”
Peggy Macdonald
executive director at the MathesonIT WILL RUN FEB. 11 TO FEB. 14.
By Erica Pope
Avenue Writer
Rhinos, religion and gold rushes are just a few of the ﬁ  lm 
topics at the Seventh Annual Cinema Verde International Envi-
ronmental Film and Arts Festival.
The four-day event will run from Feb. 11 to Feb. 14 and 
feature screenings, live music and art. Film screenings will take 
place at the Hippodrome State Theatre, Sababa and Omi’s Playa 
Azul.
The fair will be held Sunday on the Sun Center Plaza. Trish 
Riley, the festival’s director and an environmental journalist, said the fair will include music, vendors and artists painting live for an auction at the end of the festival.   
Ticket prices include $25 for a day pass and $10 for one ﬁ  lm, 
but that pass will also include several ﬁ  lms with shorter time lengths, she said. On Sunday, the festival will sell armbands for 
$10, which will give attendees deals on passion fruit mojitos 
and food at the two restaurants showing ﬁ  lms.
Riley said she co-founded the event to bring interesting en-
vironmental ﬁ  lms to the Gainesville community, and this year’s festival includes ﬁ  lms ranging from fun to informative.
“Z Nail Gang” is a ﬁ  lm that details the events of a town ris-
ing up against a corporate mining giant and will be shown Feb. 12, according to the festival’s event page.
“Kaziranga,” another ﬁ  lm that will be shown Feb. 12, de-
picts the battle between poachers and conservationists over en-dangered Indian rhinos.
Some of the festival’s ﬁ  lm directors are set to attend the 
event, including Elam Stoltzfus, the director of “Coastal Dune Lakes: Jewels of Florida’s Emerald Coast.”The ﬁ  lm shows what Floridian organizations are doing to 
save the endangered wildlife and will be shown Feb. 11, ac-cording to the event page. The showing will include an informal discussion after each ﬁ  lm, Riley said.
“I’m sharing this information because I’ve dedicated 20 
years to learning about it,” she said. “And I know how impor-tant it is.”
Riley said religious organizations tend to veer to the political 
Right when it comes to the environment. However, in recent 
years, these groups have become more aware of environmental 
issues.
Sam Kauffmann, a director and Boston University professor 
of ﬁ  lm and television, said he hopes his ﬁ  lm shows a change in thinking within conservative groups.
The ﬁ  lm “Evangelicals For Climate Action” follows three 
evangelicals committed to the environment, including a stu-dent, reverend and college professor, he said.
“It gives one hope that we really can tackle this problem,” 
Kauffmann said.
The ﬁ  lm will be screened Feb. 14, along with other inter-
national ﬁ  lms from places such as Japan, Africa, Iran and Ger-many, according to the festival’s event page.
Will Vaughn, 29, will be one of the artists painting Sunday 
for the auction at the end of the festival. He said his art is based in nature and impressionistic in style, and he aims to share what he feels when he interacts with nature.
“The goal is to be able to take that feeling of connectedness 
and put it on the canvas,” he said.
Riley said she welcomes everyone from the educational and 
environmental communities to attend. She said she hopes peo-ple who do not rate the environment as a top priority will come to see what the festival is about.
“We are just trying to bring people together so that change 
can move forward,” she said.
By Monica Humphries
Avenue Writer
In the last 10 days, the chipped 
wall has slowly turned into a work 
of art.
Three artists spent the past week 
and a half creating a mural outside High Dive, a bar and concert venue in downtown Gainesville.
The subject of the piece is a lo-
cal schoolteacher.
“We wanted to paint the most 
beautiful woman we know,” said Jesus Martinez, one of the three artists.
Stephanie Lee, an Alachua 
County teacher, captured both the inner and outer beauty the art-ists were looking for, said Carrie Watcher Martinez, another mural-ist.  
Between a forest of trees and 
hanging moss, Lee stands in the center holding a galaxy of blues, greens and yellows. The mural is titled “Center of it All.” It was painted in response to an art proj-ect that brought international art-ists to Gainesville called 352walls.
“We wanted to bring a little bal-
ance to the equation,” Jesus said.
Since the 352walls project is fo-
cused largely on international art-ists, there are few murals painted by locals.
“It’s the artists who live here 
and know Gainesville that have their ﬁ  ngers on the pulse of what truly deﬁ  nes Gainesville,” said Tim Malles, who painted the galaxy.
The High Dive wall was origi-
nally primed and painted for an in-ternational artist, but he canceled. As a result, the bar reached out to 
Jesus and Carrie, and they eagerly 
began the mural, Watcher said. 
They agreed to do the work for free 
and set out on the 10-day project.
Six days were spent on Lee’s face, and details of painted owls 
and egrets ﬁ  ll the wall. The work 
involved conquering fears, Carrie 
said, as she described having to 
paint from a three-story scaffold-
ing.
“Lee is somebody that’s worth being on a three-story building,” 
she said.
The artists know Lee through 
a local gym, Visionary CrossFit, 
which Jesus and Carrie own. Car-
rie said Lee has had incredible re-
actions from her friends and stu-dents. 
At ﬁ  rst her students didn’t be-
lieve her, she said, but once she 
showed her students pictures, they 
were so impressed, Carrie said.
The artists said they’ve heard 
nothing but positive responses.
“There’s a constant distraction 
of people offering feedback as we were painting,” Malles said. “The 
piece became a live performance, 
and we took that energy and put it 
right into our work.”
Madison Hart, a UF sustainabil-
ity and the built environment se-
nior, said she was impressed by the 
work and how it represents Gaines-
ville’s eclectic community.
“It’s bringing people happi-
ness,” she said. “Lee is not some-
body that would be a normal hero.”
Carrie said her favorite moment 
of creating the piece was when a woman stopped her to tell her the 
mural was just what she needed at 
that point in her life.
“Seeing on a personal level how 
our art impacted her is what makes it all worth it,” she said.
The artists told stories of people 
passing by yelling “nice work,” 
“love it” and “cheers.”
“When we created this mural we 
wanted to create something beauti-
ful and inspiring that Gainesville 
could be proud of,” Jesus said.
With just a couple ﬁ  nishing de-
tails left, the mural is almost com-plete.
“I might add a deer,” Carrie 
said. “Oh, and we still need to sign 
it.”THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
Erica Pope/Alligator
Will Vaughn, 29, works on one of his paintings that will be auctioned off at the festival. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
The mural, titled ‘Center of it All, ’ features Alachua County teacher Stephanie Lee surround-ed by trees and hanging moss. Lee also holds a swirling galaxy of blues, greens and yellows. 
Cinema festival places emphasis on environment, art
GNV artists paint mural of local teacher outside High Dive
LOCALTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
House For Rent in NW Gainesville, close to 
UF. $1250 per month 1600 sqft. 3BD/2BA, Large Kitchen, dining, living room, Den. W/D hookup. Fenced in yard. For more informa-tion & pictures Call or text 352-222-0838.   2-11-16-10-2 
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-121For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 2For Rent
unfurnished 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15 
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easilysubmit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ACROSS
1 It precedes
Romans
5 Maestro Ozawa
10 __ de somme:
beast of burden
14 “__ luck!”
15 ’50s-’70s senator
who wrote
“Humor of a
Country Lawyer”
16 Shuffle, for one
17 Dishonest
memoir, e.g.
20 Ancient amulet
21 Dark clouds,
perhaps
22 Pulitzer-winning
book critic
Richard
24 Bear’s team
26 Place for
permanent
storage
33 Dedicatee of an
1810 pianomanuscript
34 Brand that
includes N-Strikeblasters
35 Sarah McLachlan
song
36 Gun
37 Genre
descended fromthe cakewalk
40 Gift subject to
skepticism
41 Aussie colleges
43 “Lulu” composer44 “__ Toward
Tomorrow”: 1996
TV movie withChristopherReeve
46 Part of West
Point’s
curriculum
49 Merged news
agency
50 Convenient
carrier
51 Garden gadget54 Extent
58 One of
anatomy’s great
vessels
63 Classical
theaters
64 Southwestern
New York city
65 Linear
66 Filter67 “South Pacific”
co-star Gaynor
68 Bunker toolDOWN
1 Leatherworker’s
set
2 Smart
3 Part of TTFN
4 Man cave features
5 Wreckage resting
place
6 Throw the ball
away, say
7 Campus climber
8 Smucker’s spread
9 Suffix with neutr-
10 “Cat on a Hot Tin
Roof” matriarch
11 One-on-one sport
12 Conflicted13 Slow Churned ice
cream
18 1978 “SNL”
Emmy winner
19 European capital23 1994 Stanley
Cup winners
24 Properly
25 Radio toggle
switch
26 Hospital supply
27 Nicholas Gage
memoir
28 __ suit29 Hear again30 Tribute title words31 Flight segment
32 Like some small
dogs38 “__ le roi!”: French
Revolution cry
39 It’s to dye for
42 Website directory45 Loud speaker47 Poi source48 Honolulu’s __
Palace
51 Long narrative
poem
52 Dandy53 High spirits55 Rowlands of “The
Notebook”56 94-day
undertaking inthe CherylStrayed memoir“Wild”
57 Classic fictional
villain
59 Nice handle?60 “Prince __”:
“Aladdin” song
61 U.S. Army rank
qualifier
62 Bosox legend
By Roland Huget©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/04/1602/04/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, February 4, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted
16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Busy professional seeks helper. Good with tools? Like working on different projects? Want a break from the typical college job scene? Seeking an independent, self mo-tivated problem solver. Be the helper of a successful CEO. Earn money. Learn a lot at the same time. Less than 10 hrs per week. Previous position holders all became suc-cessful entrepreneurs. Unique opportunity beyond the paycheck. Tell me why you want this job: Photos2016gnv@gmail.com    2-5-
16-5-14
Servers Needed!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
2-10-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
22 Tickets
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services
 21 EntertainmentHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida finalized its 2016 
recruiting class on Wednesday.See the full list of players on pg. 18.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida hires new defensive backs coach T orrian Gray
According to multiple reports, the Florida football team has hired T orrian 
Gray as the new defensive backs coach. Gray makes the move from Virginia T ech, where he coached current NFL players Kam Chancellor, Kyle Fuller and Brandon Flowers.FLORIDA FINISHED WITH 
THE NO. 14-RANKED CLASS 
IN THE NATION.
By Graham Hack
Sports Writer
This time last year, UF coach Jim McEl-
wain was scrambling to put together his 
first recruiting class at Florida in roughly two months.
This time around, he had a full cycle 
to work with.
The results showed.National Signing Day saw the Gators’ 
2016 recruiting class come in at No. 14 nationally according to Rivals, a full 9 
spots ahead of where the program’s class 
ranked in 2015.
UF finished in sixth place in the South-eastern Conference and second in the state behind No. 2 Florida State.
“It was fun to have the full kind of cy-
cle going forward,” McElwain said. 
“I’m really excited about that, just the 
way we were able to kind of get an earlier start with all the guys and build relation-
ships.”
Florida had 13 players send in their McElwain pleased with 2016 recruiting classRECRUITING
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
In a surprising swap, Florida lost out on 
one of its prized four-star recruits on National 
Signing Day only to gain a different one.
Shavar Manuel, a highly touted 6-foot-3, 
310-pound defensive tackle who was verbally 
committed to the Gators before Wednesday, 
signed with FSU instead.
A few minutes earlier, UF was able to snag 
6-foot-3 receiver Tyrie Cleveland out of Hous-
ton, Texas. Cleveland was originally commit-
ted to Houston before flipping to Florida, and 
will now add depth to a young and talented 
UF receiving corps that includes sophomore Antonio Callaway.
Cleveland, the No. 15 receiver in this 
year’s class, caught 27 touchdowns and re-corded more than 2,000 yards receiving in his last two years at Westfield High.
“For him, it’s a little bit of a homecom-
ing,” UF coach Jim McElwain said of Cleve-land. “Here’s a guy who grew up wanting to be a Gator, playing in The Swamp, back with a bunch of guys he actually grew up playing 
with. I’m really happy he’s back in this part 
of the country.”
While Florida added talented pieces to 
both its offense and defense on Wednesday, one position was noticeably absent: defensive tackle.
UF’s loss of Manuel marked the first time 
the Gators have failed to sign a true defensive tackle since its 2011 recruiting class.
And while the Gators aren’t necessarily 
lacking in defensive-tackle depth — they re-turn five players who played a combined 62 games last season in senior Joey Ivie, redshirt junior Caleb Brantley, sophomore Cece Jeffer-son and redshirt sophomores Khairi Clark and Taven Bryan — they would have liked to pro-vide more assurance along the line, especially with the departure of Jonathan Bullard.
“You always want to try to make sure you 
get one or maybe two pieces in each spot,” McElwain said. “And yet, that’s a choice. That’s what it is.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgGators pick 
up one four-star recruit, lose another  
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
Hogs are scrappy by nature. 
On Wednesday, they gave the Gators 
trouble.
Florida held an 80-72 lead with just 47 
seconds left in the game, but after three made three-pointers by Arkansas, the Ra-zorbacks found themselves down by just 
two points with 6.5 seconds remaining.  
However, UF Freshman KeVaughn Allen made two free throws to seal the victory for the Gators, holding off a late Arkansas comeback. 
Florida defeated Arkansas 87-83 on 
Wednesday night  in the O’Connell Center despite the determined comeback attempt by the Razorbacks. Arkansas made six of its final seven field-goal attempts, but Flor-
ida’s success at the free-throw line in the 
final seconds secured the win.
“The last minute of the game, I feel like 
I aged a year,” UF coach Mike White said. “(Arkansas) would not go away.”
Forward Dorian Finney-Smith led the 
Gators (15-7, 6-3 Southeastern Confer-ence) with 22 points and nine rebounds, 
shooting 8-of-12 from the field and 2-of-5 
from three-point range. The redshirt senior continued to lead Florida’s offense, scoring at least 20 points in four of his last five 
games. 
Sophomore Chris Chiozza scored 17 
points and dished out eight assists in the 
win while center John Egbunu added 14 points in 21 minutes off the bench.
“We’re shooting the ball with con-Florida fights off late Arkansas rallyJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain speaks about UF's 2016 recruiting class during a press conference on Wednesday at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium.
SEE SIGNING DAY,  PAGE 19
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 19"Here’s a guy who grew up wanting 
to be a Gator, playing in The Swamp, 
back with a bunch of guys he actually 
grew up playing with."
Jim McElwain
UF football coach
Finney-Smith scored 22 points  National Signing DayX18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016
RECRUITING NOTEBOOK
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
National Signing Day ended on a luke-
warm note for Florida. 
UF missed out on four of its six targeted 
four-star players: cornerback Kristian Ful-
ton, defensive end Brian Burns, guard John 
Simpson and defensive tackle Shavar Man-
uel. 
Even so, Jim McElwain and his staff man-
aged to address some of the team’s pressing needs earlier in the recruiting cycle. Here’s two players in the 2016 class who could make an instant impact next season.
Mark Thompson, Running BackFlorida’s main threat out of the backﬁ  eld 
last season was 1,000-yard rusher Kelvin Taylor, who has since declared for the NFL Draft.
With the transfer of Adam Lane before 
last season and no running backs in last year’s sophomore class, Florida was left with a pair of inexperienced underclassmen to anchor the ground game until Thompson came into the picture. 
Jordan Cronkrite and Jordan Scarlett 
showed some potential in their limited ac-tion as freshmen in 2015 and will still con-tribute in 2016, but Mark Thompson could see considerable action and has the chance to start in 2016. At 6-foot-2 and 228 pounds, Thompson is a much bigger back than both Scarlett and Cronkrite, who are both around 200 pounds and listed as 5-foot-10 and 
5-foot-11, respectively.
“I think the ﬁ  rst thing that comes to mind 
is size, and when you watch the ﬁ  lm his abil-
ity to ﬁ  nish,” McElwain said of Thompson.
Thompson is a back in the mold of former 
Gator and current Washington Redskins’ 
running back Matt Jones — a player who 
can barrel over defenders for ﬁ  rst downs but also elude them with his deceptive speed. That lethal combination plus his status as a junior could allow him to be a featured run-ning back from day one.
Eddy Pineiro, KickerThere was no position of need more 
urgent than kicker for the Gators, and Jim 
McElwain got his man in Eddy Pineiro. 
Ranked as the consensus No. 1 junior col-
lege kicker in the country despite never hav-
ing played in a junior college football game, Pineiro had been committed to Alabama be-fore he ﬂ  ipped to Florida. McElwain said he had never been more invested in recruiting a kicker, in part because kickers Jorge Powell and Austin Hardin suffered injuries during 
the 2015 season.
“No. Absolutely not. Never have,” he 
said. “I never have until I saw two go down 
with ACLs.”
Because he never played JUCO football, 
Pineiro will have four years of eligibility at UF. However, it’s unlikely that he uses all of them since he can declare for the NFL Draft as early as after the upcoming season. 
Pineiro brings one of the strongest legs 
in recent memory along with his viral video fame — there’s videos of him kicking long ﬁ  eld goals on the internet, with the longest being good from 77 yards. 
That’s 13 yards longer than the current 
NFL record. 
That kind of power coupled with the in-
juries and struggles of Florida’s kickers last 
season should allow Pineiro to start immedi-
ately. And McElwain, however understated, is conﬁ  dent that Pineiro will come in and get the job done. 
“I think we got a chance to maybe put 
one through the uprights,” McElwain said.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgUF adds instant contributorsFlorida Football’s 2016 Recruiting Class
NAME RANKING POSITION HEIGHT, WEIGHT
Antonneous Clayton  DL 6-foot-3, 235 lbs
Tyrie Cleveland  WR 6-foot-2, 194 lbs
Feleipe Franks  QB 6-foot-6, 214 lbs
Chauncey Gardner  DB 5-foot-11, 197 lbs
Josh Hammond  WR 6-foot-1, 179 lbs
Lamical Perine  RB 5-foot-11, 218 lbs
David Reese  LB 6-foot-0, 240 lbs
Jordan Smith  DL 6-foot-5, 225 lbs
Freddie Swain  WR 6-foot-0, 177 lbs
Mark Thompson  RB 6-foot-2, 228 lbs
McArthur Burnett  DB 5-foot-9, 157 lbs
Stone Forsythe  OL 6-foot-7, 309 lbs
Brett Heggie  OL 6-foot-3, 314 lbs
Vosean Joseph  LB 6-foot-1, 215 lbs
Quincy Lenton  DB 5-foot-11, 207 lbs
Dre Massey  WR 5-foot-9, 184 lbs
C.J. McWilliams  DB 5-foot-11, 163 lbs
Jeremiah Moon  LB 6-foot-4, 209 lbs
Eddy Pineiro  K 6-foot-0, 178 lbs
Jachai Polite  DL 6-foot-2, 259 lbs
Jawaan Taylor  OL 6-foot-5, 347 lbs
Jeawon Taylor  DB 6-foot-0, 191 lbs
Kyle Trask  QB 6-foot-4, 230 lbs
Rick Wells  WR 6-foot-0, 200 lbs
Joseph Putu  DB 6-foot-2, 195 lbsfidence. We’re making them,” 
Finney-Smith said. “We’re not just being shot takers. We’re being 
shot makers.”Florida converted 30 of its 36 
free-throw attempts, including seven of eight in the final minute, 
as Arkansas played the foul game to try to stay alive. UF’s free-throw success balanced out a 5-of-19 night from three-point range.
“The foul line is as good as 
we’ve been and it’s as good as I expect them to be. Proud of our guys for stepping up,” White said. “It wasn’t our best overall effort, 
but it was by far and away our best 
effort at the foul line. We showed a lot of mental toughness."
Arkansas (11-11, 4-5 SEC) gave 
Florida problems with its defen-
sive press, offensive rebounding 
and timely three-point shooting. The Razorbacks grabbed 15 of-fensive rebounds and scored 14 
second-chance points while shoot-
ing 47.6 percent from behind the arc. Senior Anthlon Bell scored 24 points for Arkansas and guard Dusty Hannahs added 20. As a 
team, Arkansas shot 45.3 percent 
from the field, but its comeback fell just short. 
“It was a great offensive game 
for us, but defensively it was a lit-tle lackluster,” Chiozza said. “We just were worried about not foul-ing, so we were gonna make them take tough shots and they started 
making them down the stretch.”
Florida has won five of its last 
six games — its lone loss over 
that stretch being by one point to 
Vanderbilt. Now, the Gators’ fo-
cus turns to No. 20 Kentucky, who they will face in Lexington on Sat-urday afternoon.
“I sense that we’re coming 
together more, but we can’t get complacent,” Chiozza said. “Ev-ery night in the SEC is gonna be a battle so we’ve got to come out 
ready to fight every night...just be 
ready to go to war.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
letters of intent on Wednesday, joining the other 12 members 
of the class who are already 
enrolled at UF for the spring se-mester.
The class is a balanced one, 
with the offense and defense 
each having 12 recruits and 
kicker Eddy Pineiro rounding it out on special teams.
There was a clear emphasis 
on skill position players, par-ticularly at wide receiver, a spot where UF has struggled to find consistent playmakers over the past few seasons.
The Gators brought in five 
wideouts in the class, including the nation’s No. 15 receiver in Tyrie Cleveland — the school’s big splash commitment of the day.
Cleveland was originally 
committed to Houston but flipped at the last moment and came out of his signing ceremo-
ny in full Florida apparel.
“He’s a guy that came by this 
summer,” McElwain said. 
“He’s had a lot of interest in 
the Gators.”
Cleveland moved to Houston 
from Florida's Duval County 
when he was 11 years old, and McElwain said him coming back 
to play in Gainesville will be a 
"homecoming.”
On the defensive side, Anton-
neous Clayton was the biggest impact player Florida signed.
“(That) guy can get off the football and make plays,” McEl-wain said.
Ranked as the No. 2 defen-
sive end in the country and the 27th best player overall, Clayton will likely be the replacement for UF’s 2015 sack leaders in 
Jonathan Bullard and Alex Mc-
Calister, both of whom declared for the NFL Draft.
The two areas the Gators left 
empty in this year’s class were at defensive tackle and tight end, both positions where the Gators have depth. But Florida could have done with an addi-
tional player or two.
Shavar Manuel was supposed 
to be Florida’s answer at defen-
sive tackle, but he flipped his 
commitment to Florida State on 
Wednesday.
But McElwain said he’s hap-
py with the group of players his staff managed to bring in and 
feels that the program filled out 
all its needs.
“Absolutely,” he said. “Last 
time I checked (25 players) is 
pretty much a full class so I feel 
pretty good about it.”
 @graham_hack24
 ghack@alligator.orgFlorida flipped four-star 
receiver from HoustonWOMEN'S TENNIS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The No. 3 Florida women’s tennis team reigns su-
preme in the state of Florida.
With its dominating performance over South Florida 
last Wednesday, the Gators haven’t dropped a season 
opening dual match in 31 years. 
Along with a 24 dual-match win streak against in-
state rivals, the Gators also boast a 202-33 all-time re-
cord against Florida teams.
That dominance reflects in the Gators’ history with 
their next opponent, as well.
Today, the Gators (1-0) take on Florida State (5-1) 
at the Scott Speicher Tennis Center in Tallahassee at 4 
p.m. 
UF is 55-1 all time against FSU, with its lone loss 
coming during the 2009 season. 
Last season, UF went toe-to-toe in their matchup 
with Florida State. After taking the doubles point, the Gators traded points with FSU. 
A pair of wins by then-freshmen Brooke Austin and 
Peggy Porter gave the Gators a 3-3 tie going into then-sophomore Kourtney Keegan’s match.
The Roswell, Georgia, native went on to clinch the 
victory for the Gators in three-sets 4-6, 6-3, 7-5.
“It’s always fun to go to Tallahassee. They get up for our match,” Thornqvist said after Wednesday night’s USF game.
“That Florida-Florida State thing is tough to beat. It’s 
pretty interesting. I think they have a pretty good team.”
FSU won’t be an easy win for the Gators, despite 
what the record shows. 
The Seminoles lost two seniors from last season in 
Kerrie Cartwright and Mia Vriens, but they also gained two talented freshmen in Julia Mikulski and Ariana Rah-
manparast.
The Seminoles boast a 5-1 record, with wins over 
ITA-ranked teams Old Dominion, Tulane and Portland. 
The Gators will look to their doubles pairings to get 
them the early lead over FSU. Against the Bulls, the 
Gators swept in doubles play, with the No. 50 tandem of senior Brianna Morgan and sophomore Anna Danilina not allowing USF to take a game in their match. 
“I think we do need to continue to improve on some 
things. That’s part of it, we’re just starting,” Thornqvist said. “We’re hoping the pieces you see now is different the piece we’re trying to put together by May.”
“It doesn’t really matter who we play, we’re gonna 
continue to focus on the Gators.”
@DreilingerJake
JDreilinger@alligator.orgUF looking to repeat past success against FSU
SIGNING DAY,  from pg 17Gators shot 5-of-19 from behind the arcJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida's Brianna Morgan returns the ball during UF's 
6-1 win over USF on Jan. 27 at the Ring T ennis Complex.
HOOPS,  from pg 17
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida's Chris Chiozza drives into the paint during UF's 87-83 win over Arkansas on Wednesday in the O'Connell Center.
“Last time I checked (25 
players) is pretty much a 
full class so I feel pretty good 
about it.”
Jim McElwain
UF coach20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016
