We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 48 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016
Hometown hero
Goolsby made tight ends relevant in his Kansas 
hometown, pg. 14
Indie ﬂ  ea market to pop up in GNV
It will be held this weekend at the Old Gainesville Depot, pg. 10
Hippodrome to bring international talent
It will host two weeks of international performances, pg. 10Three Norman Hall classrooms see 
updates
The update is a result of more than $30,000
in donations, pg. 5
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
BIBLICAL DISCOURSE
Preacher Adam from T eam Jesus Preachers holds a sign on 
Turlington Plaza while engaging students in religious discourse over the Bible. Brother Israel, 34, said that their aim in coming to college campuses is to spread the message of Jesus Christ, be safe from sin and have eternal life.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
The lowest-paid graduate assistants will 
now see a $2,000 raise in January. 
On Wednesday, UF’s Graduate Assis-
tants United labor union and UF ofﬁ  cials 
signed off on a proposal for graduate as-sistant raises after back-and-forth nego-tiations that began in August. The ﬁ  nal proposal includes a $290 ﬂ  at raise, a $60 fee relief for all graduate assistants and a 
$15,000 minimum stipend for half-time as-
sistants who work nine months per year, up from $13,000.
If approved by the UF Board of Trust-ees, the changes will be effective starting 
Jan. 1, 2017.
John Hames, GAU’s chief bargainer, 
smiled as he signed the agreement.
“It’s a deal we can live with,” he said. 
“We fought hard for them. We got more than the university was probably willing to 
give.”
The $290 ﬂ  at raise in the proposal will 
add to the $430 ﬂ  at raise that GAU and UF 
agreed on last year. The new proposal is also increasing fee reliefs by $10.  
Hames said he was happy the univer-
sity offered to increase raises by a ﬂ  at rate 
instead of a percentage raise. With the ﬂ  at rate, every graduate assistant will receive the $290 raise, regardless of his or her sal-
ary.
After signing the proposal, UF’s chief 
bargainer, Bill Connellan, told GAU nego-After  negotiations, GAU, UF agree on graduate assistant raises
PREVIOUSL Y, WATER WAS THE ONL Y 
DRINK ALLOWED.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
After working out, students can purchase Gato-
rade at Southwest Recreation Center. 
Vending machines selling Propel, Gatorade prod-
ucts and Aquaﬁ  na water for $1.50 each were installed 
by PepsiCo and the Gatorade company in the gym’s 
lobby at the beginning of October, said Jason Rich-
ards, the Student Government external affairs direc-tor. Students can bring Gatorade and other drinks in containers with caps into the gym. Previously, they could only bring water. 
“We’ve heard so much that students wanted 
something other than water in the gym,” he said. 
SG, RecSports and the business services division 
of UF Business Affairs collaborated to place the ma-
chine in the gym, he said. It was installed at no cost to SG.
The lemon-lime Gatorade ﬂ  avor is the only one 
being sold, but different ﬂ  avors will be offered as 
demand changes, Richards said. More machines on campus may be added in the future. 
“If students really care about it a lot, we can look 
at other locations,” he said. 
Matthew Howald, a UF civil engineering ﬁ  fth-year 
student, said he usually goes to Southwest Rec every weekday but didn’t know about the rule forbidding any drink but water. 
Howald, 22, said he sits near the vending machine 
when he does homework. 
“I associated (the machine) with the Freshens 
market over there,” he said. “I don’t usually drink 
that much Gatorade, but I deﬁ  nitely am not opposed 
to being able to have it in the gym.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org Students can now bring Gatorade 
to Southwest Rec reation Center
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Contributing Writer
Visitors to city parks may no longer be able to 
smoke if a proposed city ordinance passes. 
The City of Gainesville presented the most recent 
draft of the ordinance, which would ban smoking 
from city parks, on Thursday, said Steve Phillips, 
the director of the Gainesville Parks, Recreation and 
Cultural Affairs department. The city has considered curtailing smoking in parks for a few years.
UF has had a similar anti-tobacco ordinance in 
place since 2010, said Florida Bridgewater-Alford, the director of UF’s Campus Communications Out-reach.
She said the ordinance helps to create a campus 
environment that is “supportive of the development 
and maintenance of a healthy body, mind and spirit.” While the City Commission overwhelmingly sup-
ports the ordinance, there is disagreement over the 
details, Phillips said. An early proposal suggested a $75 ﬁ  ne like the one currently in place for smoking at bus stops, while another suggested a $25 ﬁ  ne or volunteer hours.
“It’s not our intent to start attacking people by 
saying, ‘You can’t do this, you will be ﬁ  ned, we’re 
going to call somebody to give you a citation,’” Phil-
lips said. “It’s to encourage people, to educate them, 
let them know that this is not the appropriate loca-tion for that.”
In the past, the city has tried to discourage smok-
ing to prevent park visitors from inhaling the smoke, he said.
Phillips said if the ordinance passes, signs and an GNV  debates banning smoking in parks
SEE SMOKING,  PAGE 4Assistants will receive a $290 raise
SEE GAU,  PAGE 4
LOCALSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  61°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
The ocean and the election
What do next month’s elec-
tions mean for the sea? Find 
out in a free public lecture from ocean journalist David Helvarg on Nov. 3 from 1:30 p.m. to 3 
p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 
3320. David Helvarg is a long-
time ocean journalist and au-thor whose books include “50 
Ways to Save the Ocean,” 
“Saved by the Sea” and “The Golden Shore: California’s Love Affair with the Sea.” In his lecture “The Ocean and the Election,” Helvarg will share responses from the presi-dential candidates and ideas for how citizens can make a difference on behalf of our oceans and coastal communi-ties. Helvarg will also share the trauma and the wonder he has experienced in, on and by the oceans, along with power-ful imagery to remind the audi-ence of all of the intimate ways our lives are linked to the sea. His talk will be followed by a book sale and signing.
Sparks and APIA Photography 
WorkshopHave you ever wanted to learn more about working a digi-tal single-lens reflex camera? Come join Sparks Magazine and Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs as they host a workshop all about photog-raphy. You will not only learn about using DSLR cameras, but you will also have the chance to practice in and around the meeting location. You are en-couraged to bring your own camera, as this is a major part of the workshop. Let your cre-ative juices flow, and learn how you can share your voice, 
experience and story through 
art. The event will be today 
from 
1 p.m. to 3 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 2201.
RUB Entertainment pres-
ents Dumbledore’s Army Training CampCome out to Dumbledore’s 
Army Training Camp today 
from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom for butterbeer, a photo booth, an obstacle course, do-it-your-
self charm bracelets, potions, 
spell writing, riddles, raffle 
contests and much more.
GatorNights: Haunted Horror 
Reitz
On Friday, GatorNights is stir-
ring up some spine-chilling fun at Halloween Horror Reitz. Make sure to arrive in your spookiest or cutest costume to win a fun prize at our costume contest. Come in to get “zom-bie-fied” by a special zom-bie makeup artist and enter a daunting maze with Gators Humans vs. Zombies. Screams are guaranteed at the spookiest and biggest haunted house yet, covering more than half of the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom and equipped with terrify-ing special effects. Check out what the future has in store for you with tarot cards and palm readers. Craft your own slime or unleash your creative side by painting your own ceramic skull. GatorNights is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate and are al-lowed to bring a maximum of 
one guest to the event.
Corrections
In an article published Oct. 
26 under the headline "With 
science-inspired jewelry, a UF 
student’s business grows," 
Summer Ash, the director of 
outreach for the Columbia University Department of 
Astronomy and co-founder of 
STARtorialist, was incorrectly 
identified as the founder of STARtorialist. Ash helped co-found STARtorialist. Also, Erin 
Winick was incorrectly iden-
tified as being a senior when 
she took the course Design and Manufacturing Lab. Winick was a sophomore when she 
took the course.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 48
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie           
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias      
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016
tiators that he values the relationship with 
the union. 
“We have an agreement,” Connellan 
said. “It signals that the university cares about the graduate assistants. We tried to do something special for them this year.”
But Hames said the union isn’t done. 
He said he still believes the university could have offered more.
Hames said the union can now shift its 
efforts toward negotiations over the full graduate assistants’ contract in January, which opens up for negotiation once ev-ery three years. 
The union wants to prioritize reducing 
fees for graduate assistants. Hames said he could’ve put down a house payment with the amount of fees he has paid UF since becoming a graduate assistant.Graduate assistants pay between $1,400 
and $1,900 in fees each year and change 
depending on how many months they 
work, Hames said. The fees are a burden. 
“Graduate assistants have families,” 
he said. “They have houses. They are, 
in many cases, facing economic difﬁ  cul-
ty even though they are the frontlines of making education a success here at UF.”  
Connellan said the raises for graduate 
assistants will help UF compete with top-
tier schools. The proposal will be present-
ed to the Board of Trustees at the Decem-ber meeting to be approved and ﬁ  nalized, he said. 
“We can recruit better students,” Con-
nellan said. “We can be more competi-tive.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org GAU,  from pg. 1‘W e fought hard for them’
educational campaign will be launched to 
increase public awareness of the new rules.  
“Bottom line is it’s a good thing to have 
occurring in all our parks,” Phillips said. “If 
you have secondhand smoke around play areas where kids are enjoying themselves, it’s been proven that that’s a health hazard.”
Philip Allen, a 27-year-old UF Spanish 
literature doctoral student, said he used to smoke cigarettes but has since moved onto 
e-cigarettes. While he said he feels there 
should be areas on campus for smoking 
because tobacco is legal, he doesn’t have a 
problem with the restrictions.
“Parks are public places,” Allen said. 
“They’re used with taxpayer dollars to keep and maintain, so it’s really up to the city. If that’s what the people want, then they have the power to do so. ”SMOKING,  from pg. 1Fines may range from $25 to $75
FLORIDA MUNICIPALITIES 
THAT HAVE PASSED 
SMOKE-FREE PARK 
ORDINANCES:
• Highlands County
• Lauderdale Lakes
• Lighthouse Point
• Miami-Dade County
• Parkland 
• Sarasota County 
• West Park
Source: American Nonsmokers’ Rights FoundationTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
CLASSROOMS WERE UPDATED 
AS A RESULT OF MORE THAN 
$30,000 IN DONATIONS.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Updates to three classrooms in Norman 
Hall are changing the way future educators 
are learning.
Private donations and matching funds to-
taling more than $30,000 have allowed UF’s 
College of Education to renovate the three 
rooms, marking the beginning of renovations the building will see over the next three years, said Glenn Good, the dean of the college. The college plans on using $28.5 million for con-struction, which will start at the end of next Spring.
“We aspire to be a top-three college of edu-
cation,” Good said. “We’re hoping that reno-
vated spaces will allow us to do even greater work.”
Private donations from donors like the 
Robert S. and Mildred M. Baynard Charitable 
Trust have funded the new classrooms and made a difference for teachers and students who use the rooms, said Ester de Jong, a pro-
fessor and the director of the School of Teach-
ing and Learning. 
The renovated classrooms feature new 
furniture that can easily be arranged, allow-ing collaborative work between students, de Jong said. 
“One of my goals is to replicate in our 
classrooms what we want our future teachers to be doing in their classrooms,” she said. 
She said the most exciting pieces of furni-
ture are the pods, chairs with movable desks and swivel seats.
“According to students, the best feature on 
the pods is the cup holder,” de Jong said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org  Norman classrooms get updates
By Clare Roca
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Hailey Remigio stopped her wheelchair 
in front of a group of about 15 people 
Wednesday night to tell them how she plays sports despite her disability. 
The UF neuroscience student said she 
plays wheelchair tennis and noted that many sports can be adapted to suit players’ needs during a panel on including those with dis-abilities in sports and ﬁ  tness environments. Five others spoke during the panel, which 
was held at the Reitz Union.
The event, hosted by UF Student Gov-
ernment and the Disability Resource Center, 
came after the Accessibility and Inclusion Expo, which aimed to educate UF students on embracing others.
Tony Delisle, a UF swimming alumnus 
who is legally blind, told the group that 
equal participation allows those who have 
disabilities to play with those who are able-bodied.
“It fosters social connections with people 
who don’t have disabilities so they can learn 
a little more about what we go through,” 
he said.
Remigio said it’s important for people to 
know that special adaptations to a game can allow more to participate. 
“It helps you see how you can make 
the most out of what you can do instead of pointing out what you can’t,” Remigio said. “There’s no such thing as ‘can’t.’ It’s a mat-ter of ‘how.’”  Panel discusses sports, ﬁ  tness 
accessibility and inclusionThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
When everything is going wrong, focus elsewhere
I went on vacation two weekends ago, 
and almost everything that could’ve gone wrong did go wrong. It was a weekend ad-venture to the Desert Trip concert in Cali-fornia (dubbed “Oldchella,” because it was 
a showcase of ’70s and ’80s musicians on the Coachella grounds) with my dad and my sis-ter, and going in, I was already nervous. I’m a naturally anxious person; my dad and my sister are not. So the week beforehand, I had called them numerous times trying to ﬁ  gure out what the “plan” was. As of Tuesday, two days before we left, I didn’t even know what time the ﬂ  ight was. The two of them just told me to relax and that they’d take care of it, which wasn’t exactly helpful to my overly anxious brain.
When we arrived in Los Angeles (at midnight Paciﬁ  c 
Time), we found that the rental car agency we reserved had a line out the door and that almost all the hotels near the airport were booked. That wasn’t the only thing that went wrong over the next few days. Hotels in the area had little vacancies, and my dad made the mistake of only booking a room for the day we were ﬂ  ying out. There were navigation issues and issues with grades and school that I couldn’t take care of because I had little to no Wi-Fi and we had just gone over our data plan for the month. 
But compared to how I had been stressing out before 
the trip actually started, all of these misfortunes barely af-fected my mood at all.
I’ve heard of the term mindfulness before, but I don’t 
think I’ve ever taken it into consideration. I’m the type of person who is always worried about something — even when it seems like nothing is going on. But for the major-ity of this vacation, I wanted to focus on where I was, what I was doing at the current time and just push aside anxious thoughts of what schoolwork I needed to do and what we were going to do about the hotel situations. It was almost surreal; at one point, I was the one reassuring my dad (which is practically un-heard of) when he thought that Google Maps was giving us wrong directions.
It was deﬁ  nitely easier to focus on the cur-
rent moment and all the good things going on when I was away; after all, it was an exciting vacation, so enjoying the good parts of it was easy to do. When I got home, I was instantly overwhelmed by everything—from school as-signments to how dirty my kitchen was to things people may or may not have been saying 
behind my back. I lamented the loss of the state of mind I had in California.
But it wasn’t something magical about the West Coast 
that eased my anxieties. It was my deliberate choice to focus on other things. I realize this is hard to do. Trust me, I’ve been told the same piece of advice over and over again, and sometimes I am better at applying it than oth-er times. But this time, it really stuck with me because so much was going wrong; yet by focusing on the good things that were happening — I got to see an amazing concert and spend time with my family — I was able to feel at peace.
Will this cure my anxiety? In a short answer, no. But 
I am more aware about how focusing on the positive can really help, even if just for a moment of peace. In the crazy bustle of college life, it’s important to just take a moment and focus on the good things that are happening right at that instant, even if it’s something small. The ﬁ  rst sip of coffee in the morning, the feeling of sunlight on your skin, the sound of your best friend’s laughter, the way the moon looks that night. Take a moment to notice those things and nothing else, and even if for a moment, just be.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and computer sci-
ence senior. Her columns appear on Thursdays.The rise of apex 
predators: Netﬂ  ix 
and HBO Go
There used to be a time when movie rental stores roamed 
free across this vast land. Blockbuster would graze hap-pily on its nourishing customer base. Rival species Hol-lywood Video would gladly pick up the scraps.
But those wonderful days are gone, dear reader. Now, 
all over America, you can ﬁ  nd carcasses and skeletons of those once beautiful animals. Some of those carcasses have become new homes for cute animals like Panera Bread, Sherwin Williams Paint Store and the endangered species RadioShack.
With the rise of apex predators Netﬂ  ix and HBO Go, Block-
buster didn’t stand a chance. Video rental stores simply could not ﬁ  ght back the ferocious jagged teeth that is the online video streaming service. But Netﬂ  ix and HBO Go haven’t even fully evolved. They are just the ancestors of a new beast yet to come. 
And when it comes, it will be snarling, drooling and very hungry. 
What prey will this new creature consume? And how?
With Netﬂ  ix adding its own content regularly to its repertoire, 
it’s looking to defeat television and become this metaphysical creature capable of not only creating content but also broadcast-ing. This is the ﬁ  nal form of entertainment evolution. Netﬂ  ix and HBO Go started as rats, sniveling around and eating scraps, but they have evolved and have transcended to, dare I say it, gods.
This process was simple. Because Netﬂ  ix and similar services 
are streaming, they’re accessible on pretty much every multime-dia device: phones, tablets, computers, smart TVs and even some refrigerators (what a time to be alive). After the convenience fac-tor became too much, Blockbuster dwindled into the abyss. Net-ﬂ  ix no longer had competition; it had eradicated it. There was only one thing left to do: destroy television as well. How would Netﬂ  ix do that? Simple: by providing its own content.
This is how Netﬂ  ix exclusives came to be. Soon, other stream-
ing services followed suit. Amazon Prime got “Annedroids,” “Ca-
tastrophe” and “Transparent.” Hulu hosts “The Mindy Project” 
and “The Path.” Netﬂ  ix has “BoJack Horseman,” “Daredevil,” the fourth season of “Arrested Development,” which is an Alliga-tor favorite, “House of Cards,” Aziz Ansari’s “Master of None,” “Stranger Things” and “Orange is the New Black,” among oth-ers. Many of these shows are quite entertaining and thought pro-voking, and some are downright hysterical. Many of them have won recognition. “Transparent” won a Golden Globe. “House of Cards” was nominated for more than 30 Emmy Awards.
Content-streaming websites, speciﬁ  cally Netﬂ  ix, are not only 
reaching their ﬁ  nal form, but they’re also going in for the kill. When they strike, not only will the TV industry have to defend it-self, but even the movie industry will as well. They are redeﬁ  ning how we as consumers “consume” and are setting new rules by which TV executives have to play. If you really want to make it, you no longer go to a studio to pitch a show; you go to a stream-ing service instead. Anyone with $3 can buy an HDMI cable and plug his or her computer right into the TV. Soon, mediums like 
cable and satellite are going to be things of the past, and even 
networks are going to have to adapt to this new system or die.
HBO’s situation is an example of a “change-or-die” mindset. 
HBO changed and started producing its own content — “Game of Thrones” enthusiasts, rejoice. Unless you’re watching live sports, which is more enjoyable at a bar with friends anyway, there’s no need for you to have a subscription to a cable or satellite provider.
Netﬂ  ix has evolved. It’s learning. If you’re a consumer, it will 
lure you in — that much is inevitable. If you’re a competitor, you 
have two choices: adapt for survival, or risk death.THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Petrana
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Costume SalePersona
Costume Sale
352-372-0455
Shop Local · 201 SE 2nd Pl 
We live in a world of extremes. It 
saturates our culture, plagues our politics. But substantive discourse often requires gray area and nu-ance. Yet as a society, we perpetu-
ally leave little room for it. The conversation about political correctness is no exception. This became obvious to me a few days ago.
Last Saturday began like any other. After 
an early morning workout, I sat in my kitchen eating breakfast, scrolling through the morn-ing news on my phone. Because objectivity is rare, and there is unabashed media bias from outlets favoring both sides of the political 
spectrum, I try to get my news from a diverse 
group of sources. One of these is the New York Post.
As I was reading, a headline caught my at-
tention: “Crybaby college kids offered coun-seling for ‘offensive’ Halloween costumes.” I smirked, thinking it was likely a story about an ultra-progressive Ivy League school experi-menting with some new, ridiculous program. 
And then I opened it. My amusement faded.The Post article was referenc-
ing a recent UF newsletter from 
Oct. 10 titled “Halloween Costume Choices,” which informed students of a 24/7 hotline available for calls 
and reports of any costumes they 
deemed offensive or insensitive.
The memo stated, “Some Hal-
loween costumes reinforce stereo-types of particular races, genders, cultures, or religions.” It added, “Regardless of intent, these cos-tumes can perpetuate negative stereotypes, causing harm and offense to groups of people.” 
I thought these statements about a usually fun 
holiday were overly dramatic and nonsensical. 
But this Halloween hotline isn’t just a waste 
of the school’s mental health resources and an easy target for prank callers. It’s indicative of a greater, more widespread movement involv-ing young Americans and the bastardization of political correctness.
Now, I can’t express this vehemently 
enough: I am not inherently against being po-litically correct. In our society, and especially in higher education, we need to strive to create a culture that values all voices, regardless of race, religion or gender. Everyone 
brings something to the table, and 
we should treat people with respect and listen to what they have to say, even if they’re different from us.
I don’t think that’s an unreason-
able position. But for some schools, apparently it’s not enough. UF isn’t 
alone in taking PC culture too far. 
In 2015, Brown University infamously cre-
ated a “safe space” for its students before a debate at the school. According to The New York Times, the room was ﬁ  lled with “cook-ies, coloring books, bubbles, Play-Doh, calm-ing music, pillows, blankets and a video of frolicking puppies.”
Seriously? It’s embarrassing. We’re edu-
cated adults in college, not pre-school. The debate was about a serious topic: rape cul-
ture and sexual assault on college campuses. It’s a tough conversation, certainly, but one 
that needs to take place in order to begin to address the problem. Playing with bubbles solves nothing.
Yet those who take this radical PC view are 
just as ridiculous as the people who whole-heartedly resist being PC altogether. The goal of political correctness is to promote discourse among people who otherwise wouldn’t have a voice. Being extreme, regardless of what side you’re on, only hinders it.
As millennials, we like to pride ourselves 
on being open-minded and accepting of oth-er’s worldviews. It’s one of our most positive 
characteristics that distinguishes us from pre-
vious generations. We say we’re not afraid to challenge the past. We say we want to con-front social and economic injustice. We say we want to create a better future.
But we can’t do that if we’re hiding in our 
safe spaces, offended by someone’s Hallow-een costume.
Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays.
The UF Halloween memo and how extreme political correctness has run amokColumn
Brian Lee
opinions@alligator.org
Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Indie ﬂ  ea market makes debut
It will take place Sunday, pg. 10The Fest to take over downtown Gainesville 
The punk rock festival starts Friday, pg. 9THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Cindy Lu
Avenue Writer
Suwannee Hulaween will return 
to the Spirit of the Suwannee Music Park in Live Oak, Florida, this week-end for its fourth annual festival.
Produced by Silver Wrapper and 
Purple Hat Productions, the festival will feature dozens of musical per-formances as well as workshops, art exhibits and contests over the 
course of three days.
Although this will be the fourth 
Suwannee Hulaween to come to 
Live Oak, festival producers have 
been actively working year-round 
to bring new elements to this week-
end’s event.
“This year we have added a new 
stage … (and) a lot more surprises 
and installations,” said Destiny 
Beck, the publicist for the festival.
More than 60 musical artists, 
DJs and bands are set to perform 
throughout the weekend. Perform-
ing acts include The String Cheese 
Incident, Grammy-nominated duo 
Disclosure, electronic duo Big Gi-gantic, techno music producer Claude VonStroke, London-based duo Oh Wonder, reggae rock group Rebelution, Gainesville’s Locochino and German music producer Boys Noize.
“We’re incredibly excited to be 
back at Suwannee,” said Luke Sipka of Bells and Robes, one of the fes-tival’s returning musical perform-ers. “The music and decorations at Hulaween are unlike any other fes-tival.”
In addition to several Hulaween 
veterans, this year’s lineup includes various artists who will be making their ﬁ  rst appearances on the Hu-laween stage, such as rapper Logic, Canadian duo Bob Moses and pro-ducer Slow Magic.
“We are excited to get some 
stage play this year,” said Charles 
Weinert, half of the electric-mix duo 
MZG, one of Saturday’s performers. “We’ve been working toward it for a while now, and it feels great to have 
achieved it.”
As per tradition, among the mu-
sical acts will be a special perfor-
mance by The String Cheese Inci-dent, who is hosting the event. 
“Every year, String Cheese per-
forms a themed Halloween set fea-turing several cover debuts, cos-tumes and other surprises,” Beck said.
This year’s theme is based on Netﬂ  ix’s hit show “Stranger Things.”
In between musical performanc-
es, guests will have the option to at-tend workshops. Each day will offer classes in dance, yoga, healing and meditation.
Suwannee Hulaween also offers 
several contests. One example is the “Stranger Things” costume contest to win a pair of passes for the event.
Another is the campsite-decorat-
ing contest. For the festival’s week-end campers, a VIP upgrade will be given to whoever has the most festive and creative campsite. The upgrade includes discounted drinks, massage services, viewing areas by the main stage, shuttle services and a catered meal.
In addition to music and activi-
ties, Suwannee Hulaween will offer guests a unique visual experience. Spirit Lake, a creative project to decorate the waterfront area of the park, will call on sculptors, painters and light designers to transform the park for Hulaween festivities.
For this weekend’s festival, Spirit 
Lake will be expanded to a larger scale than in years past, Beck said.
A silent disco and other surprise 
activities are scheduled to take place during the festival to showcase Spir-it Lake.
Suwannee Hulaween will con-
tinue its annual greening program, as an important part of the festival is to be sustainable and connect with nature. According to the festival’s website, the project is a collabora-tion between Hulaween and the Spirit of the Suwannee Music Park to enact and promote recycling and composting throughout the week-end.
The program’s Green Team will 
offer games, prizes and sustainabil-ity tips to festival attendants.
Suwannee Hulaween is also 
partnering with the Suwannee Mu-sic Foundation and Conscious Al-liance for its inaugural food drive. Festival guests are asked to bring nonperishable foods items or mon-etary donations in support of the Love Inc. Food Pantry in Live Oak.
The ﬁ  rst 600 people to donate 
20 food items will receive a limited-edition event poster.
Beck said 2015’s Hulaween fes-
tival saw more than 21,000 guests.
“There is a great blend of all de-mographics with everyone having one key similarity: a love for music, 
friendship and culture,” Weinert 
said.
Suwannee Hulaween will start 
Friday, and the festivities will run 
until Sunday, with an ofﬁ  cial pre-
party Thursday. Tickets, ranging 
from day passes to weekend passes, 
can be purchased at festivalticket-ing.com, over the phone or at the festival gate.Suwannee music festival to bring the Hulaween spirit
MUSIC
Courtesy to the  Alligator
The fourth annual Suwannee Hulaween festival will take place in Live Oak, Florida, from Friday to Sunday. The event will feature popular music acts like Disclosure and Logic, along witha costume contest, art, dance, yoga and Halloween activities. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
The  String Cheese Incident, a rock band from Colorado, is the event’s host and performs a Halloween-themed set every year. The band hosts the event all three nights. 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
While hardcore football fans 
will be out of town to watch the 
Gators play the University of Geor-
gia Bulldogs in Jacksonville, Flori-
da, this weekend, Gainesville will host a completely different type of entertainment.  
From Friday through Sunday, 
Gainesville festival, The Fest, will take over downtown. Most venues around the area will participate in the bar-crawl-like festivities. The 
Fest has offered for 15 consecutive 
years.
The festival acts as a grand as-
sembly of punk bands and fans 
from around the world. Classic 
punk-rock acts like Propagandhi, Strike Anywhere, Jeff Rosenstock, Masked Intruder and AJJ will per-form at various spots in downtown 
Gainesville, some more than once 
during the same weekend. 
What may be even more excit-
ing than all of the legendary acts, 
though, is the opportunity to see 
smaller bands you might not have heard of before. The Fest gives these bands a chance to reach a larger audience. 
Take Gouge Away, a Fort Lau-
derdale, Florida-based hardcore punk band, for example: After at-tending The Fest while growing up, vocalist Christina Michelle stepped up to the plate and got her band on The Fest’s lineup in 2014. This 
will be her second year playing the 
festival.
Michelle wrote in an email 
that she had attended The Fest for 
years, but once her band, Gouge 
Away, formed, the group started playing post-festival shows in Gainesville.
“It was just a matter of time be-
fore we asked if we could be a part of the lineup, and thankfully, we were approved,” the 26-year-old said.
The Fest isn’t just a music fes-
tival: It’s a Gainesville cultural staple. The Fest brings people from all over the world to a little Florida 
town and shows them that even 
though Gainesville is relatively un-known on the global scale, it offers a vibrant and quaint culture. 
“I think Fest is a huge part of 
Gainesville,” Mitchel Worley, a 21-year-old UF English junior, said. “It adds to the town’s uniqueness and brings people from all over to 
see what we have to offer. It’s just 
another reason why I love living here.”
The Fest certainly offers a look 
at Gainesville for many people who might not have otherwise heard of 
the town, but it’s also a way for Gainesville residents to feel proud of where they live. It’s an oppor-
tunity to explore downtown, an excuse for out-of-town friends to visit and a way to meet people and see bands from all over the country 
and the world (the U.K., Canada 
and even Singapore) so close to home.  
It’s this aspect of home and 
family that make The Fest special for bands like Gouge Away. 
“It’s nice to be able to see your 
friends from all over the country, even the world, and being able to 
grab breakfast with one group of 
friends, a milkshake with another, and sing along to each other’s mu-sic all weekend,” Michelle said. “It feels like a family reunion.”
Participating venues include 
The Atlantic, Boca Fiesta, the Civic Media Center, Cowboys Saloon, Durty Nelly’s Irish Pub, High Dive and many others. Festivities start 
Friday as early as as 1 p.m. with 
pool parties at both the Holiday Inn Gainesville University Cen-ter, located at 1250 W. University 
Ave., and the Wyndham Garden 
Gainesville, located at 2900 SW 13th St. Most of the bars and music venues will open their doors and kick off the live music between 
4:30 p.m. and 6 p.m.
For those looking for something 
to do this weekend, it’ll be easy 
to ﬁ  nd activities that pique any 
interest around downtown while 
The Fest is going on. For those not particularly interested in the music scene, this year’s festival also of-fers live wrestling, stand-up com-
edy and, more generally, an excuse 
to go downtown and experience Gainesville culture. 
Although it is now too late to 
purchase three-day-passes for The Fest, tickets are still available on-line for speciﬁ  c venues, and some will sell tickets at the door until they reach capacity. To check out 
this weekend’s schedule, speciﬁ  c 
ticket pricing and more details about The Fest, go to thefestﬂ  .com.
The Fest returns to downtown GNV for 15th anniversary
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Fest will take over a number of downtown Gainesville venues this weekend, including 
The Atlantic, Boca Fiesta and High Dive,  for the annual punk rock music festival.
By Rebecca Santana 
Avenue Writer
“Spring Awakening,” a Tony Award-
winning musical once banned in many 
theaters, is coming to UF’s Constans The-
atre on Friday, and it will run until  Nov. 
6. 
Tony Mata, the head of musical theatre 
at UF and the director of the show, said he 
wanted to take advantage of his medium 
to convey an important and controversial message, and he chose the work as the lat-est performance for UF’s School of The-atre and Dance. 
“Spring Awakening” deals with the 
traumatic and life-changing ordeals aver-age teenagers experience and the discon-nect between these teens and the adults in their lives. Though it is a musical, the 
subject matter is serious and grim, touch-
ing on topics such as abortion, suicide and sexuality.
Mata describes the piece as “challeng-
ing” from a director’s standpoint because of such heavy themes. However, he said he is “very fortunate to work with very, very talented young people” who make 
his job easier, and he said he hopes the 
show will create an important dialogue in the community.
The characters in the show are sup-
posed to be real and relatable, and they are supposed to reach out to the audience in a way other plays don’t. Because of the 
emotional nature of the show, the actors 
must be fully invested at all times.
Chaz May, a UF musical theatre senior, 
called the rehearsal process an “exhaust-ing one.” May plays Melchior, a child liv-
ing in Germany during the 1800s. This 
character feels that his society is corrupt and takes action to change it.
May said he has enjoyed working in 
this production because it is very different than other musicals he’s acted in. “Spring Awakening” is described as a rock musi-cal, and May said that “the use of contem-porary rock music adds a fresh new take 
to a classic piece.”
Of course, a production is not led only 
by the actors. A group of musicians, de-
signers and technicians came aboard 
to help make this production what it is 
meant to be. May described the work of the group as “stunning,” “breathtaking” and “impressive.”
Mata encourages the Gainesville com-
munity to purchase their tickets quickly, as they tend to sell out very fast. 
Tickets can be purchased at the Uni-
versity Box Ofﬁ  ce or through Ticketmas-
ter, and they are $13 for students, $15 for 
faculty, staff and seniors and $18 for the general public. Friday’s show will start at 7:30 p.m. By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
This past Tuesday, Steve Madden came 
to visit UF for a live interview with College-
Fashionista founder Amy Levin and an open ﬂ  oor Q&A session with students. Those in attendance were required to RSVP for the event. 
Even with this RSVP, however, seating 
was not guaranteed, and a line began to form well before 4:45 p.m. By the time the doors opened at 5:30 p.m., a line of students and professors hoping for a seat in Norman Hall, Room 137, stretched down the main hallway and looped back around to the dou-ble-door entrance. 
Those who arrived early enough to be 
admitted into the lecture hall were escorted to open seating, where each chair held a Steve Madden goodie bag with a branded note pad, whimsical lipstick, nail polish-shaped highlighters, an “I’m with Steve” T-shirt and a one-night-only voucher for $20 off a Steve Madden purchase at Dillard’s and a $10 Uber. This allowed the guests to get from UF’s campus to the Steve Madden Girls’ Night Out event that was held at Dil-lard’s at The Oaks Mall later that evening.
About 20 minutes late and sporting his 
signature Ray-Bans, Madden entered the room in true Hollywood fashion. How-ever, this intimidating demeanor of fame was largely diminished by the candidness and self-deprecating humor that Madden 
brought to the interview. As he spoke about 
working in a women’s shoe store as a teen, 
Madden said he “instantly fell in love with 
lady’s shoes” but quickly added it was “not 
in a pervy way.” 
When Levin asked him about career mis-
takes, he didn’t shy away from talking about 
his thirty-month stint in prison, shown in 
the movie “The Wolf of Wall Street.” 
“When you’re in prison, you’re just try-
ing to survive ... just trying to get stronger physically and mentally,” Madden said. 
Despite this difﬁ  cult topic, he chose to 
take a positive approach to the matter. “I 
was able to bring some of that strength back 
into the business,” he said. 
This strength, combined with his keen, 
visual eye for design, has allowed Madden 
to build his personal startup into a fashion giant and household name. 
“We set (trends) and we follow them; 
it’s a dynamic thing,” Madden said.
On what is in store for Steve Madden 
and his brand, Madden said the company intends to release more sneakers and mens-
wear and expand manufacturing to new na-
tions like the U.S. He also said a documen-
tary is being ﬁ  lmed about the designer and 
company.
“We try to stay true, as a company of our 
size, to our DNA,” he said.  UF debuts new show Friday   Steve Madden visits UF
THEATRE
 LOCAL10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016
By Janiece Sebris 
Avenue Writer 
Tampa Indie Flea will host its 
ﬁ  rst indie ﬂ  ea pop-up market in 
Gainesville this Sunday. 
The pop-up event, which will 
take place from noon to 4 p.m. 
at the Old Gainesville Depot, has 
been in the works for more than three months, said Seanissey Loughlin, the curator for Tampa Indie Flea.
Loughlin said he had been put-
ting together smaller markets in Tampa, Florida, but wanted to do something larger within the com-
munity. However, Loughlin said 
he knew he would need to col-laborate with someone else to pro-vide a year-round indoor market setting. 
He worked with Rosey Wil-
liams, who had already launched St. Pete Indie Market, to create Tampa Indie Flea, a monthly mar-
ket that’s coming up on its one-
year anniversary in November.
Loughlin said part of the rea-
son he wanted to create a market like this was to add to the already long list of interesting activities in Tampa.
“There’s a lot of really cool 
stuff happening,” Loughlin said, 
“and we just want to expose as 
many people as we can to that.” 
However, because Tampa In-
die Flea is only once a month, the curators wanted to expand it to other cities. Even though it took time and planning to make sure vendors were available and to de-
termine a location, Loughlin said 
having Gainesville as the ﬁ  rst pop-up market outside of Tampa was a great decision.
“It’s exciting for us that we get 
to do it in a place that we’re so excited about,” he said.
Diana Swallow, who owns Up-
cycled Studio in the Tampa Bay, 
Florida, area with her husband, 
Ken, said people who haven’t been to an indie ﬂ  ea market be-fore should expect to walk away feeling inspired to create, get their hands dirty and learn a new trade. She said the markets are even an inspiring time for vendors who have the opportunity to be around 
other creative people.  Market-go-
ers have the opportunity to meet creative people who make hand-crafted, quirky items, she said. 
Loughlin mentioned a vendor 
who traveled from South Carolina to Tampa selling tintype photo-graphs. Loughlin said what struck him was the passion this artist had 
for his niche art.
“I deﬁ  nitely walked away with 
a tintype and was telling everyone, 
‘This guy needs to be supported through and through,’” he said. 
He said 40 to 45 vendors are 
expected to attend the Gainesville pop-up market this Sunday. Local, independent Gainesville business-
es like Bobby Foxx Designs, which specializes in jewelry and photog-
raphy, and Vivi and Sam, which produces jewelry and decor, will be present at the pop-up. 
Upcycled Studio is also includ-
ed in the list of vendors. Diana and Ken Swallow ﬁ  rst got started at shows in 2012 with events like Tampa Indie Flea, where they sold prints by Diana and sculptures by Ken. 
“I like to call the indie markets 
a lot of goodness all in one place,” 
Diana wrote in an email. “It has a 
vibe, a life of its own.”
First-time indie ﬂ  ea goers might 
come not knowing what they’re looking for but leave having found an artist who perfectly captures their aesthetic. You never know what you’re going to ﬁ  nd, Swal-low said, from body care items to artisanal foods to one-of-a-kind clothing.
Swallow said it’s the recurring 
customers who make it worth-while. She said for her, seeing someone connect with something she created is one of the most sat-isfying feelings.
“Small-business owners are 
dreamers and doers,” she said. “We want to bring our customers 
a unique product they’d be proud 
to own or give as a gift.” 
Loughlin said that the best part 
about buying things from inde-pendent businesses is the feeling of actively contributing to some-one’s livelihood, as most people who participate in indie ﬂ  ea mar-kets are doing this by picking up a 
trade and doing it part time.
“These are regular people; 
you’re not ﬁ  lling the pockets of 
some fat cat,” he said.
When buying from local, inde-
pendent businesses, patrons can know exactly where their money is going, Loughlin said. He said whether it’s helping artists buy 
more art supplies or putting food 
on the table for their children, the importance of supporting art and creativity is not lost on him.
“Why would it not be impor-
tant?” he asked. 
 Indie ﬂ  ea market to pop up in Gainesville this weekend
ART
Courtesy to the Alligator
T ampa Indie Flea will expand its pop-up market to Gainesville on Sunday at Old Gainesville 
Depot starting at noon. The event will feature about 45 vendors from throughout the South. 
By Audrey Alonso
Avenue Writer 
The Hippodrome State Theatre will host 
two weeks of international performances 
throughout the end of October and early November starting today. The performances will include world-traveling actors from the 
Workcenter of Jerzy Growtowski and Thom-
as Richards. But here’s the kicker: The actors will not have microphones, lights or even a set to perform with. 
They will showcase the revolutionary 
method of Jerzy Growtowski, a 20th-century Polish dramatic theorist. Growtowski’s meth-od breaks boundaries between actor and au-diences, creating an atmosphere that trans-
forms audience from watchers into doers. 
The performances planned are highly 
structured and deﬁ  nitive. Each performance 
has a ﬂ  ow that is constantly changing and adapting each time they are performed. The tone of each day’s performance depends on what the actors are feeling. Their emotions make up a large part of emotion portrayed in a given performance. These events are meant 
to be a once-in-a-lifetime experience. How 
did this come to be?
About two and a half years ago, the Hip-
podrome faced the threat of closing its doors forever, said Michael Littig, a Hippodrome company member and coordinator of this two-week international residency. He found a solution to make sure the Gainesville insti-tution stayed open.
Littig said he asked the question, “How can everyone in the community feel wel-come?” and wanted the Hippodrome to be the home of the community. Littig requested a grant to support international performances at the Hippodrome, the National Endowment for the Arts approved it and now the Work-center’s performances will round off the past 
two years of international spectacle and give 
people of the community, including students, the chance to experience a truly moving per-formance with others from different back-grounds. Everyone is encouraged to attend.
The performances planned for the next 
two weeks are open and free to the public. The audience will have a chance to be part of each day’s performances, and no prior 
knowledge is required in order to participate. 
This gives each performance a unique ﬂ  ow as it adapts to the environment it is being per-formed in.  
Each actor is accommodated for his or 
her work and needs, including residency, through the NEA’s grant. The actors chosen to perform have been with the Workcenter for years, ranging from at least two to as 
many as 15, and are still thriving.
There will be six performances in the up-
coming weeks, starting with today’s event, 
The Open Program Studio. 
Here, an international theatre company 
will sing and dance, and attendees are en-couraged to participate and interact with the performers. 
Tickets to the events are free, and more 
information can be found at thehipp.org.Hippodrome State Theatre 
to bring international talent
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
D.R.A.M. - “Big Baby D.R.A.M.” - 
Oct. 21
D.R.A.M. blew up in 2015 from his 
hit song “Cha Cha” and has been putting 
out quality music for a while. Last Fri-day, we ﬁ  nally got his debut album, “Big Baby D.R.A.M.” D.R.A.M. went into this 
release on a hot streak; with a guest ap-
pearance on Chance the Rapper’s “Color-ing Book” album earlier this year and top-ping the charts with his single “Broccoli,”  D.R.A.M. proves he’s here to stay. Check out the debut album from the Virginia rap-
per. 
NxWorries - “Yes Lawd!” - Oct. 21
NxWorries, pronounced “no worries,” 
is a duo composed of producer Knxwledge 
and Anderson .Paak. The duo released ex-
tended play “Suede” in 2015 but just re-leased its debut album as NxWorries last week. “Yes Lawd!” is one of the better 
albums to come out this year and is some-
thing fans of all genres will enjoy. Ander-son .Paak has had a successful year, hav-ing already released his album “Malibu” 
back in January and being named one of 
the 2016 XXL Freshman Class this year. Check out “Yes Lawd!” from NxWorries to freshen up your playlists. Dame D.O.L.L.A. - “The Letter O” - 
Oct. 21
There are some people in this world that 
are unbelievably talented. Damian Lillard is one of those people. Lillard is an NBA superstar who plays for the Portland Trail Blazers who also excels at rapping. Going 
by Dame D.O.L.L.A., Lillard ﬁ  rst grabbed 
people’s attention as a rapper when he spit a freestyle on Sway’s morning radio show last year. You’ll be impressed with 
Damian Lillard’s skills as a rapper, and if 
you’re a fan of the NBA, you’ll enjoy the numerous basketball references through-out the album. Take a listen to Lillard’s ﬁ  rst full-length project, “The Letter O,” on 
all streaming services now.
Soulja Boy & Bow Wow - “Ignorant 
S---” - Oct. 25
I know what you’re thinking: “Soulja 
Boy and Bow Wow released new music? 
Did I wake up in 2008?” The answer is no, you haven’t. While Soulja Boy may not be the most lyrical rapper and won’t ever be inducted into the Songwriters Hall of 
Fame like Jay Z, nobody can downplay his 
ability as a producer. You can stream or download this mixtape for free on datpiff.com or other mixtape websites, so why not 
check it out? You might ﬁ  nd a few songs 
you like. Let’s celebrate the coming-out of Bow Wow’s not-so-long retirement by lis-tening to his new mixtape with Soulja Boy.Hip-hop music roundup: 
Dame D.O.L.L.A., Bow WowTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   11-15-16-20-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    11-10-16-12-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
2002 Toyota Rav4, clean title, all papers available, smoke free, no rust, no accidents, 2.0L I4 Engine, AWD, White with Tan , 112K miles. $2900 You can get in touch with me by phone at 3177218798      10-28-5-12
2001 Toyota Tacoma
V6 4dr Double Cab 4WD , automatic, $2900, gasoline, 177.000 mi. . Call at 7852518737     10-31-16-5-12
1998 Ford Explorer, great condition,
leather interior, must see to appreciate. $1,500 OBO. Call 352-281-8623    10-31-16-5-121For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.Gamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Dench of
“Philomena”
5 Alternative
strategy
10 “Ladies First
Since 1916”
sneakers
14 Tourney format,
briefly
15 Secretary
Thomas Perez’s
department
16 Chicken vindaloo
go-with
17 Sister of Rachel
18 Jazz pianist
Blake
19 Logician’s word
20 Sasquatch, for
one
22 Rub the wrong
away
24 Head covering25 Walk of life29 Home of the
Oregon Ducks
32 Limited portions
of
34 L.A. commuter
org.
35 German coal
region
37 New York
Harbor’s __
Island
38 Large pears
41 Sing-along
syllable
42 Colonial hero
Silas
43 Home of the
Imagination!
pavilion
44 Cookout choice46 Animation 
sheet
47 Extremely
focused
49 Promising
performers
52 Carpentry tool53 “That’s so __!”54 With 57-Across,
negotiate ... and
what needs to bedone to makesense of thispuzzle’s circles
57 See 54-Across61 Poet Angelou64 Dry up66 Sing in the
shower, say
67 Fivers68 Bored with it all69 Fingerprint
feature
70 Skin condition
71 Sasquatch kin
72 Mid-month time
DOWN
1 Crystallize
2 Film beekeeper3 Laptop screen
meas.
4 “Anybody
around?”response
5 Certain campus
newbies
6 Renowned ’70s-
’80s battingcoach Charley
7 French friar8 Roulette bet9 Chicken serving
10 Desk space11 Whisperer’s
target
12 Hammarskjöld of
the UN
13 __-Caps: candy21 One with a habit23 Spotted26 Wrap around27 “This Is Spinal
Tap” director
28 Motown flops
29 War zone
journalists30 Ideal setting
31 Lawn
maintenance
accessory
32 __ to go33 Sleek horse
36 Abruzzi bell town
39 Payment required
of knowndeadbeats
40 1943 penny
metal
45 Grain cutters48 Pay a call50 Awe-ful sound?
51 Breakfast mix
55 Word with bake
or fire
56 Logician’s “E”58 Yummy
59 70-Across
application
60 Boston __
61 Spoil62 Esq. group
63 Assent
65 CBS series with
a N.Y. spin-off
By Ed Sessa©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/27/1610/27/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, October 27, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Part time. Must love to work with kids. Free training for teaching beginner Fencing Classes. No experience required. Must have own car. Pay $15 per hour with max monthly income of $480. Send resume to kkvols@floridafencingacademy.com     10-28-16-5-14
Swimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14
Love Hiking or Running?P/T position avail- to work with like minded folks.20 hr/wk inc Sat. or Sun. a must. Apply in person to Lloyd Clarke Sports.1504 NW 13 St. 1 m N of UF    11-2-16-5-14DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Liz Slattery and the UF soccer 
team play their final match of the regular season tonight. Read the story on pg. 16.. "There's not a lot of NFL stadiums in the state of Montana."
-Florida football coach Jim McElwainBy Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Derby, Kansas, operates like a football 
factory. 
From the time children are second 
graders in peewee leagues, they’re learn-
ing the same calls, plays and formations 
they’ll eventually need to know when they take the field for Derby High School, the only high school in the small town. 
And in recent years, the factory has 
been producing.
The teams have played well, snag-
ging two state championships in the last three years and an 8-0 start to the 2016 
season. The players themselves have de-
manded attention from recruiters, bring-ing national scouts to the Wichita suburb. And thanks to Florida tight end DeAndre Goolsby, the factory is especially adept at producing college-ready tight ends.
“(He) made the TE position sexy 
again,” Derby coach Brandon Clark wrote in an email. 
Before he came through, Derby ran a 
spread offense that didn’t use tight ends much. But since his days staring at Pan-
ther Stadium, Goolsby has become an 
inspiration for the town’s young football hopefuls. 
“He’s the legend in Derby who resur-
rected the tight end position and made youth across Derby wake up every morn-ing wanting to be just like him,” Clark wrote.
Now at Florida, no one in Gainesville 
wakes up wanting to be like DeAndre. But his success has continued at the position 
he built back home, and it’s showing on 
the stat sheet. 
“I think he’s starting to scratch the sur-
face as to how good a player he can be,” Florida coach Jim McElwain said. 
Goolsby is Florida’s second-leading 
receiver so far this season, amassing 215 yards on 25 grabs with a touchdown. But unlike in Derby, the tight end position at 
Florida was sexy long before he arrived. 
Dating back to UF’s 2006 National 
Championship team that featured stand-
outs Tate Casey and Cornelius Ingram, UF has also produced NFL talent like Jordan 
Reed and Aaron Hernandez. 
But since Reed’s departure after the 
2012 season, the position has been lag-
ging. 
In 2013 and 2014, Florida’s best pass-
catching tight ends both amassed fewer UF tight end showcasing potential
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
DeAndre Goolsby runs to the end zone during Florida's 13-6 win over Vanderbilt on Oct. 1 in Nashville. Goolsby is 
Florida's second-leading receiver this season. 
THE GATORS LEAD THE SEC IN 
ASSISTS PER SET. 
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
With Florida volleyball leading 23-19 during the 
second set of Sunday’s match against Georgia, UF 
setter Allie Monserez gently lofted the ball into the 
air. With perfect timing, outside hitter Carli Snyder leapt into the air and slammed down Monserez’s 
pass for a kill, giving the Gators a set-point oppor-
tunity.
The Gators won the match 3-0.
For No. 10 Florida (18-2, 8-1 Southeastern Con-
ference), passing has been a work of art this season.
The Gators lead the SEC in assists per set, help-
ing them achieve a .331 hitting percentage and 14.27 kills-per-set average in conference play, rank-ing them first and second in the SEC, respectively. 
Behind timely digs from libero Caroline Knop 
and accurate sets from Monserez, one of the na-
tion’s leading setters, the Gators have been able 
to put the ball in the hands of their point scorers: All-Americans Alex Holston, Rhamat Alhassan and Snyder. 
“To have multiple players (score),” UF coach 
Mary Wise said, “that tells you a lot about our of-fense.”
Knop has been reliable for the Gators in the back 
row. She leads her team with 277 digs, and her 4.13 digs per set ranks third in the SEC.
Time after time, Knop has sacrificed her body in 
order to make game-saving digs. Her quick reflexes and timely movements have made scoring a night-mare for opposing offenses.
In the last two matches, the junior had 29 digs. 
On the season, Knop has registered double-digit Passing is key 
for Florida volleyball team
He 'made the TE position sexy again'
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 15
MEN'S BASKETBALL EXHIBITION GAME
FLORIDA 91 
ECKERD COLLEGE 63
STAT LEADERS:
• C John Egbunu: 18 points,  13 rebounds
• G KeVaughn Allen: 13 points, 3 assists
• F Devin Robinson: 12 points, 8 
rebounds
• G Chris Chiozza:  11 points, 5 rebounds, 4 assists
• F Justin Leon: 11 points, 4 rebounds
• G Canyon Barry 11 points, 6-7 FTTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
FLORIDA WON'T 
COMPETE IN GAINESVILLE 
UNTIL LATE JANUARY.
By Drew Kozlin
Sports Writer
Last year the Gators had five 
home meets. 
This year? Just one.
With the ongoing renovations 
of the O’Connell Center, Florida was forced to give up its home-
field advantage in several meets. 
One of those meets came this 
past weekend against Texas and Indiana.
The meet was important, and 
the Gators lost handily.
And while head coach Gregg 
Troy doesn’t believe the loca-tion directly impacted the result of the meet, he acknowledged 
that it affected his team in some 
ways.
“It’s a little more of the pe-
ripheral things,” Troy said on 
Monday. “The amount of rest the 
athletes are getting, getting back 
late on Saturday night. We had 
a bus break down and you’re up again early on Monday morning training.”
That kind of grueling sched-ule may impact the athletes. Last week the Gators were in Indiana, next week they’ll be in Georgia, 
and the week after they’ll travel 
to Texas.
In fact, it won’t be until Jan. 
28 that the Gators finally get to compete in Gainesville. That’s 
over four consecutive months on 
the road.
“You get a chance to listen 
to Mary (Wise) and Becky (Bur-
leigh) when they talk about how 
good it is coming home when 
you’ve been on the road,” Troy 
said. “We’ve been on the road 
three weeks in a row and we’re 
gonna pack up and go again this 
week and the week after.”
Florida’s players are even 
feeling the effects outside of the 
swimming pool. Troy said his 
players are at a disadvantage in 
school, and since the majority of 
meets are on the weekend, many 
of the swimmers are missing 
valuable Thursday and Friday 
classes on a weekly basis.
The Gators' road meets will 
continue this weekend when they 
travel to face Georgia on Friday.
@DrewKoz2
dkozlin@alligator.orgO'Dome renovations hurting Florida swimming team
Alligator File Photo
Gregg Troy points during Florida's meet against Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O'Connell Center. The Gators 
won't be able to swim in the O'Dome again until Jan. 28. 
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Mary Wise talks to her team during UF's 3-0 win over Mississippi State on Saturday. 
digs in 16 matches, including a career-high 31 against Ole Miss on Sept. 23.
And opposing teams keep attack-
ing her.
“I would love for them to keep 
hitting at me,” Knop said. 
Monserez, Knop’s partner in set-
ting up the team’s point scorers, has been one of the Gators’ most reliable players every time she steps foot on the court.
Her 770 assists lead the team, 
and her 12.22 assists per set ranks first in the conference.
Combined, Monserez and Knop 
form a deadly passing combination. 
“Allie’s doing a great job,” Knop 
said. “I can’t say enough that it’s about the people around me. It’s about Allie who’s setting some re-ally ridiculous hitters, too.”
With the Gators set to take on 
Ole Miss on Friday night and LSU 
on Sunday afternoon — both home 
contests — the race for the SEC’s top team is beginning to tighten.
However, despite the intensity 
of conference play, Knop said the 
team’s focus remains the same — 
all eyes are on the NCAA Tourna-ment.
“This second half of SEC play, 
we’re just gonna continue to try and 
get better,” she said. 
“The end goal is not an SEC 
Championship. It’s a national 
championship.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 14Monserez's 770 assists 
are the most on the teamyards than Goolsby already has 
halfway through this season. 
Last season things started to 
return to normal when graduate transfer Jake McGee took over.  Even Goolsby hauled in 277 yards worth of passes. 
But this season, Goolsby has 
emerged as the favorite target of quarterbacks Luke Del Rio and Aus-
tin Appleby, hauling in the most 
passes (25) on the team. 
And McElwain has taken notice 
of his improvement. 
“He’s got a long ways to go,” 
he said, “but he’s a lot better than what he was.”
Clark, however, said he knew 
Goolsby was going to be great as 
soon as he arrived at Derby as a freshman. 
“You could see it,” he said dur-
ing a phone conversation. 
He couldn’t hear it, though. Be-
cause aside from Goolsby’s size — 
he’s 6-foot-4 today — and natural 
athleticism, the most noteworthy 
thing about him was that he never said anything. 
“He was this guy that just kinda 
showed up,” Clark said. “And he didn’t say much and just kept work-
ing, and … kids just started taking 
notice of him in games and stuff. And he kinda just became a role model by the way he was playing.”
While he hasn’t reached role-
model status at UF, the junior is on track to have the best season of any tight end at Florida since Reed. But Clark, who saw his potential early, 
wouldn’t be surprised if Goolsby manages to re-do what he did back home. 
“You see some guys leave the 
state and you kinda get the feeling 
that they’re gonna be back after a couple years,” he said. “But as 
soon as DeAndre… picked Florida, 
I knew right then he was gonna last there and do a great job.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Coach Jim McElwain:  '... he's a lot better than what he was'16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2016
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
It was an emotional weekend for 
the Florida soccer team.
The No. 17 Gators (12-4, 7-3 South-
eastern Conference) held their Senior 
Day on Sunday afternoon, the ﬁ  nal 
regular-season home match in the ca-
reers of their eight-player graduating class.
UF won in thrilling fashion, defeat-
ing Mississippi State 1-0 after sopho-more midﬁ  elder Mayra Pelayo blasted 
a left-footed volley past Bulldogs goal-
keeper Tanya De Souza in the 81st minute of the game.
However, it was a moment earlier 
in the week that stood out for senior 
Liz Slattery.
“(Coach Becky Burleigh) showed 
us this video she made beforehand of all of us seniors and just these mo-
ments picked out here and there of all of us together,” Slattery said. “All of us 
were just sobbing.”
While the end is getting closer for 
Slattery and her seven fellow seniors, 
the Gators still have one more regular-season match to play tonight against 
Missouri (11-5-1, 6-3-1 SEC) at 9 in 
Columbia.The Tigers are one of the most 
offensively aggressive teams in the country. Their shots-per-game average 
(19.7) ranks ﬁ  rst in the SEC and third 
in the NCAA. And freshman forward Sarah Luebbert’s 10 goals are tied for 
the third-best mark in the conference.
“They’re very athletic,” Burleigh 
said. “They play some unorthodox formations sometimes. They’re really, 
really good in the attack, and so I think we’ve got to be able to withstand that pressure.”
To counteract Missouri’s aggressive 
style of play, UF is expected to run a 3-5-2 formation, pairing a second for-ward at the top of the ﬁ  eld alongside All-American Savannah Jordan while leaving only three players in the back-
line.
It’s not a system Florida has run 
much in 2016. However, the Gators still have conﬁ  dence that their skill and 
cohesiveness as a unit will be enough to get by the Tigers.
“We’re good at adapting to that for-
mation according to their formation,” Slattery said. “I think that as long as we play our game and do what we know how to do, we’ll take care of business.”
Every SEC team concludes its 
regular season tonight, meaning next week’s conference tournament will be ﬁ  nalized by the day’s end.
A win over Missouri would guaran-
tee UF a top-four seed. The Gators are currently tied with Arkansas for third in the conference standings at seven 
wins apiece.
Florida has already clinched a ﬁ  rst-
round bye in the bracket, meaning it will kick off postseason action on 
Wednesday in the competition’s quar-terﬁ  nals. The Gators have won three of the past six SEC tournaments.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
UF soccer team preparing for potent Missouri oﬀ  ense  