We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 16 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016
Running back proving worth for 
Gators
Freshman Lamical Perine led UF in rushing 
yards on Saturday, pg. 13
New app lets students rent high-end clothing
The clothing prices range from $60 to $300, pg. 8
New Mexican restaurant on Archer opens
The restaurant is one of two opening in Gainesville, pg. 5College of Education ranked No. 9
Colleges were ranked based on 10 factors, pg. 3
  pg. 3
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
101 Cantina was served a no-
tice for eviction Friday after prop-
erty owners say the restaurant failed to pay rent.In a complaint ﬁ  led Wednes-
day in the Alachua County Circuit 
Court, leasing company Trimark 
Properties, LLC requested evic-tion for unpaid rent, late charges, court costs and attorney fees.
But 101 Cantina Owner Alex Thomas said in a message that they have a year left of leasing 
the space and the business isn’t 
behind on rent at all. 
“They are arguing we are 
month to month and we are argu-
ing we have a year left (on the 
lease),” Thomas wrote. “They 
stop accepting rent in September, 
that’s all.”The popular Midtown bar re-
mained open Monday and, as of 
press time, is not closing. 
 As of Sept. 1, rent owed to-
talled $21,181.11, according to 
court documents. Trimark Prop-erties, who could not be reached for comment, also requested $750 
in attorney’s fees and $540 for the 
cost of the lawsuit. 101 Cantina failed to vacate 
the location at 1632 W. University 
Ave. on Aug. 31, when the lease 
was up, according to the docu-
ments.
The popular Midtown restau-
rant and bar began leasing the 
space in 2009 under a ﬁ  ve-year 
contract that ended Aug. 31,  101 Cantina served eviction notice after failing to pay rent
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
CALM BEFORE THE STORM
A student passes by Gen. James A. Van Fleet Hall in the minutes before a downpour on Monday 
afternoon. Rain is forecast for the rest of this week.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer 
In the 2017 U.S. News and 
World Report released today, UF fell in ranking.  
The website’s Best National 
University list, which was released today, showed UF gained two points on its score but dropped three spots to No. 50, tying with Pepperdine University, Villanova University and Pennsylvania State University.
The scores were determined 
by a combination of a university’s peer assessment score, high school counselor assessment score, grad-uation and retention rank, average freshman retention rank and fac-ulty resources rank.  
In 2016, UF came in at No. 
47, scoring 60 out of 100 possible points. 
The university still holds its 
spot at No. 14 on the Top 30 Pub-lic National Universities list, tying with Pennsylvania State University for the second consecutive year. 
All universities aspire to be in 
the top 50, and UF has a strong reputation, UF spokesman Steve Orlando wrote in an email. 
“We are relatively young, and 
yet are among the very best uni-versities,” he said. “However, our ambition is to be the very best.” 
The drop isn’t that big of a deal, 
said Provost Joe Glover. U.S. News can be subjective in its rankings and only measures the undergradu-ate program, excluding things such as graduate programs and research completed at a university, he said.  
“University of Florida has al-
ways ranked very well among the public universities,” he said. “Little ﬂ  uctuations like that, quite frankly, don’t have a lot of mean-ing.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  UF moves down in 
university ranking
IT’S THE SECOND CASE OF 
NEAR-CAMPUS ASSAULT 
IN THE LAST NINE DAYS.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police is looking for a man who 
ofﬁ  cers said sexually battered a woman near 
Midtown on Sunday.
At about 12:50 a.m. Sunday, Christopher Noel Gonzalez Cruz, 24, attacked the 19-year-old woman, according to a UF Alert email from University Police. The two met at a Midtown bar before leaving together.
Gonzalez Cruz drove the woman to an un-
known location, where the incident took place inside his car, according to the email. After she screamed, he sped away.
A UPD ofﬁ  cer stopped Gonzalez Cruz for 
speeding, according to the email. He then ran away, and the woman reported the attack. Gonzalez Cruz was last seen wearing a light-colored shirt and dark pants.
GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said of-
ﬁ  cers are using increased patrols and under-cover operations to ﬁ  nd him.
This is the second sexual assault case UPD 
has reported in the past nine days. On Sept. 3, an unknown man attacked a UF student near campus, according to Alligator archives. 
In April 2015, UPD trespassed Gonzalez 
Cruz from campus. On July 1, 2015, ofﬁ  cers charged the former Santa Fe College student with trespassing a second time at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Later that month, UPD also charged him with stalking a student.
Anyone with information about Sunday’s 
attack or the suspect is asked to call GPD at 352-955-1818 or text “GPDFL” and the tip to 274637. Those who want anonymity can call Crime Stoppers at 352-372-7867.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  GPD: Man sexually assaulted woman near MidtownCAMPUSSEE CANTINA,  PAGE 4Owner disputes leasing claimsSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
What Colors Do You Bleed? 
Blood Drive
The annual What Colors Do 
You Bleed? Blood Drive host-ed by LifeSouth Community Blood Centers will be held un-
til Friday. The blood drive is a 
competition between UF and 
the University of Tennessee to see which school can donate 
the most blood. UF has not won 
since 2008, so the university is determined to win this year. All blood donors will earn spirit points toward Dance Marathon and points for the Fall Greek Blood Drive. Donors will also receive a T-shirt and will help save a life. Bloodmobiles will be located at the Newberry Road Donor Center, the Civitan Donor Center, the Hub, Turlington Plaza, Little Hall, Sorority Row and Gator Corner Dining Center. For more information, email lg-bialeck@lifesouth.org or call 352-359-0988.
Improve your public-speaking 
skillsTalking Gators Toastmasters meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in UF’s Entomology Building, located at 1881 Natural Area Drive, Room 1031. For details, go to talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page. “The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and positive learn-ing experience in which mem-bers are empowered to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth.”
Campus Juice
Trying to get those 10 servings of fruits and vegetables a day? Campus Juice, UF’s healthy lifestyle club, is hosting a juic-ing workshop. Come out to learn how to juice, create differ-ent recipes and hear about the health benefits of juicing. There will be juice for everyone, and it is a great opportunity to learn what Campus Juice is all about. Join Campus Juice for a healthy potluck today in Little Hall, Room 0205, at 7:30 p.m.
RUB Entertainment’s glow-in-
the-dark ZumbaJoin Reitz Union Board Entertainment for a free Zumba class — with a twist. On Wednesday at 6:15 p.m., come out to the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom for special glow-in-
the-dark Zumba. Participants 
will receive glow-in-the-dark 
bracelets and necklaces.
Author to discuss the war on 
drugs in Mexico
A film, literature and journal-
ism scholar from Washington 
University in St. Louis is giving a free lecture Thursday at 5:30 
p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 
100. In this lecture, Ignacio 
Sánchez Prado will show how the erosion of citizenship and the lack of economic opportu-
nity have fueled drug-related 
violence in Mexico. In a global-
ized world, Mexican citizens have become more vulnerable to this form of violence. This 
event is the first in an eight-part 
speaker series called “Death: 
Confronting the Great Divide.” This series invites nationally renowned scholars and film-makers to explore unique cul-tural and historical confronta-tions with death. This event is free and open to the public. For more information, please visit humanities.ufl.edu.
Flu shot kickoff and tank-top 
giveaway FridayGet the shot, not the flu. Drop by the UF Student Health Care Center (Infirmary Building at 280 Fletcher Drive) on Friday between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. for a free flu shot and “CHOMP THE FLU” tank top when you present your Gator 1 Card and health in-surance card. Please note: Tank tops will be available to the first 1,500 UF students vaccinated at Friday's event only. For more information, visit shcc.ufl.edu/flu.
Hippodrome State Theatre cos-
tume saleUnique costumes and acces-sories from the Hippodrome State Theatre are up for sale from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday and noon to 4 p.m. Sunday. It’s been nearly a decade since Gainesville’s only professional theatre has “cleaned out its closet,” but on Saturday and Sunday, the public is invited to the Hippodrome basement to purchase award-winning costumes that have given life to hundreds of theatrical characters throughout the years. Prices range from 5 cents to $500. The sale will start at 9 a.m. on Saturday. 
UF Study Abroad Fair
The UF Study Abroad Fair will be held at the Reitz Union 
North Lawn on Sept. 21 from 
10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Study-abroad programs help students dis-
cover new cultures, increase 
global awareness, enhance 
foreign language skills, make 
new friends and establish new contacts.  Overseas internship 
opportunities are available.  
Most financial aid can be used 
for study-abroad programs and study abroad can be used to sat-isfy summer residency require-
ments. The UF Study Abroad 
Services staff will be available 
to explain the application pro-cess and help students begin the steps to find the right program. 
The  UF International Center 
encourages prospective "Global 
Gators" to visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index or call 352-273-1539 for more information.
UF Mindfulness Day 
The UF Mindfulness team is sponsoring UF Mindfulness Day, which will offer free practice sessions focused on mindfulness meditation, yoga, qigong, performances and sev-eral talks. Come and join UF Mindfulness to practice and learn about mindfulness Sept. 26 at the UF Mindfulness Day. All sessions are free and open to students, faculty and staff mem-bers. Event details can be found at mindfulness.ufl.edu/index.php/events
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  84° LOW  72°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, David Hoffman, Amanda     
  Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Michael Smith  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 13TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!By Lindsey Crown
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF’s College of Education was ranked No. 9 
among U.S. undergraduate education colleges 
by USA Today.
The survey, released Thursday, was con-
ducted by USA Today and College Factual, an 
education technology company that provided 
data for the newspaper’s third-annual ranking of the top colleges nationwide. The ranking looked at 10 factors, including graduates who are among the top earners after graduation. 
Glenn Good, the dean of the college, wrote 
in an email that it’s the ﬁ  rst time the college was included in USA Today’s ranking. “From my perspective, the high rankings 
come in part from UF attracting exceptional students, the college preparing them very well 
and students becoming successful leaders in 
their professions following their graduation,” he said. 
Graduates of the college are in high demand 
by employers, and students often receive mul-tiple job offers after graduating, he said. 
The college is now the highest ranked col-
lege of education in both the state and the southeastern region of the country, according 
to USA Today.
Nephtali Beauvais, a UF education senior 
specializing in early childhood education, 
said she’s been able to do hands-on learning through courses, an opportunity she’s enjoyed. 
The 21-year-old said hearing the college’s 
ranking came as a surprise. 
“I had no idea,” Beauvais said. “It’s amaz-
ing to hear and makes the whole experience 
that much more worth it.”  College of Education ranked No. 9
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville is the third-best college 
town in the country, according to a new 
ranking published by CollegeRank.net.
Taking into consideration hundreds of 
campuses and their surrounding cities, 
the website deemed Gainesville’s nature, 
nightlife and arts scene deserving of a top-
tier status, said Sara Moore, the marketing 
director of College Rank.
The only cities ranked ahead are Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, and San Luis Obis-
po, California, home to Harvard University 
and California Polytechnic State Univer-
sity, respectively.
Moore said the list should serve as a 
“bragging resource” for students, parents and alumni who are proud of where they 
went to college.
“Like, ‘Hey look at our awesome com-
munity, look at what we have going on here at our amazing campus,’” she said.
For UF student Brian Habing, football 
gamedays make the city special.
“I like the sense of community,” the 
20-year-old mechanical engineering junior said. “Everyone in the whole town is hav-ing a party, and we’re all getting together to support the same thing.”
Moore said Gainesville’s small-town en-
vironment may encourage more students to live here once they ﬁ  nish school at UF or Santa Fe College.
“I think with a smaller town you have 
an opportunity for students to stay after graduation,” Moore said.  Gainesville makes top three 
in college-town rankingsBy Morgan Rynor
Alligator Contributing Writer
Natalie Isaza stopped 
to help an injured seagull 
she found on a Los Ange-les beach Saturday.
She bundled it up and 
took it to a wildlife care center. The UF veterinary clinical associate profes-sor didn’t think twice about helping the animal, 
and her colleagues took notice, honoring her as the American Humane Association’s 2016 American Hero Veterinarian later that eve-ning.
“I kind of think I’m just doing what most 
veterinarians do when they’re faced with an animal that needs help,” Isaza said. 
Melissa Glikes, a Gainesville resident 
who has known Isaza for 16 years, nomi-nated her for the award, she said. 
“She’s an unsung hero,” Glikes said. Isaza graduated from the UF College of 
Veterinary Medicine in 1994. In 2003, she came back to UF to help start the Veterinary Community Outreach Program, which treats shelter dogs and underprivileged animals, 
Glikes said.
Through the program, Isaza has saved 
thousands of animals’ lives, Glikes said. 
More than 200 people were nominated 
for the award, Isaza said. The American Hu-
mane Association chose ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nalists, and the public had three months to vote for the winner. 
Isaza has her trophy in her ofﬁ  ce already 
and said, for now, she plans to keep teaching and helping animals. 
“It’s been a huge surprise and a huge 
honor,” Isaza said. “So many people do what I do every day with no recognition, so I kind of dedicated my award to them.”  UF professor named ‘Hero Vet’ 
THE WOMAN WAS WEARING A 
KENTUCKY SHIRT WHEN SHE 
STOLE $190 WORTH OF ITEMS.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police is asking for help identi-
fying a University of Kentucky fan who stole 
from a local Target on Friday.
The woman, wearing 
a dark blue shirt reading 
“UK2K,” stole $190 worth of items from the Archer Road store and later re-turned it as a fraudulent transaction, according to a GPD statement. 
The stolen merchandise 
included a large package of diapers and a baby sling, according to the statement.
She then left in a black Toyota Camry, which was caught on camera, according to the statement. Target staff have identiﬁ  ed the woman as being responsible for another inci-dent in April. 
GPD received some tips on the woman’s 
identity, but none have panned out, said GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias. On Monday, Tobias posted a statement on the GPD Face-book page asking for help ﬁ  nding the Ken-tucky fan, whom he said “had a rough week-end” following the UF football team’s 45-7 win Saturday.
As of press time, the Facebook post has 
been shared almost 200 times.
“In the spirit of football, it was a chance to 
just add some levity to the post,” Tobias said.
Anyone with information on the woman 
is asked to call 352-955-1818 with informa-tion or text keyword “GPDFL” plus a tip to 274637.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  GPD: UK fan shoplifted from TargetIsaza
Security footage
COLLEGES WERE 
RANKED BASED ON 
10 FACTORS.4   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016
NO ONE KNOWS HOW IT 
GOT ON CAMPUS OR WHY 
IT’S GONE.
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Sometime over the summer, a 
sleeping ﬁ  gure appeared beneath a 
tree outside UF’s College of Design, 
Construction and Planning.  
When Jason Meneely ﬁ  rst no-
ticed the statue over the summer, he 
paused.
“At ﬁ  rst, I thought there was some-
body lying down dead,” the UF asso-ciate professor in the Department of Interior Design said. “I thought it was a colleague or something.”
But when he walked closer, he saw 
it was actually a sculpture split in half at the waist.
No one is sure when the sculpture 
of a sleeping woman appeared out-side the college, but Meneely wanted to ﬁ  nd out who it belonged to. Anoth-er UF professor led him to UF alumna Charity White, who created three ce-
ramic statues for her senior thesis in 
May. 
White said she wanted to start a 
conversation about how residents use 
public space and how the city deals 
with homelessness.
“I think so much of our public 
space we just take for granted for the way it is,” the 30-year-old said. “It be-
came another plane for the conversa-
tion.”
The statue’s split accommodat-
ed the arm rails in the downtown 
Gainesville benches, which are de-
signed to keep homeless people from sleeping on them, she said. After com-pleting her project, she threw the stat-ues away in a dumpster. 
In June, she heard that the statue 
had found a new home on UF’s cam-pus. 
“I ﬁ  gured it was living its new life 
without me,” she said. 
Gloria Li, 19, and Scott Sakowitz, 
19, were walking by the college one afternoon when they looked over and saw the ﬁ  gure. 
“What is that?” Li said before 
walking over. She stepped over the ﬁ  gure carefully before walking away. 
“I’m, like, scared it’ll get up,” the 
UF environmental science sophomore said with a laugh. 
Li said once she realized the mes-
sage behind the statue, it seemed 
more meaningful. 
“I thought it was just some weird 
modern art thing,” she said. “It’s in-
teresting to hear the backstory.” 
But last week, the statue disap-
peared. 
UF Spokesman Paul Bernard said 
from what he knows, UF wasn’t the one who moved the statue. 
“My guess is that the Physical 
Plant Division or, more speciﬁ  cally, the Grounds Department removed it,” 
he wrote in an email. 
Meneely said he’s curious about 
the fate of the sleeping woman. Once 
he heard what White’s message was with the statue, he said it was a 
thought provoking statement. 
“I’m wondering if this thing is go-
ing to become like a traveling gnome,” 
he said. “The mystery of where it’s 
gone is sort of the next piece of the 
puzzle.” 
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org   Homeless woman statue 
disappears from campus
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Outside of the College of Architecture, a UF alumna’s master thesis 
project lies in the shade under a tree. The statue, created by Charity White, was designed to create a dialogue about homelessness in Gainesville. The statue disappeared last week.
2014, according to the documents. It kept leas-ing the space on a month-to-month basis.
The company is entitled to double the amount 
of rent due on the location for the period during which 101 Cantina refuses to leave, according to the documents. 
Attached to the complaint ﬁ  led by Trimark 
are several emails spanning from Aug. 4, 2014, to Nov. 17, 2015.
They show Thomas asking to extend the 
lease of the West University Avenue location, and Matthew Luedecke, the commercial prop-erty manager of Trimark Properties, telling him they were not willing to give a new lease but would continue on a monthly basis.
Luedecke wrote in an email on May 26, 2015, 
that the owners were reluctant to sign new leas-es while they worked on the eviction of Mid-town Eats, according to the documents.
In another document ﬁ  led Aug. 9, a compa-
ny called 581 Investments ﬁ  led to foreclose on 101 Cantina’s alcohol license. As of April 1, 101 Cantina owed the company $64,284.01, accord-ing to court documents 
Emails then jumped to June 23, 2016, when 
Luedecke asked Thomas where to drop off the notice, according to the documents.
Eran del Castillo, a UF chemical engineer-
ing senior, has been going to 101 Cantina every weekend since her freshman year.
It’s a place where the 21-year-old celebrated 
friends’ birthdays and one of her own, she said.
When she heard about the eviction, she was 
shocked, del Castillo said. 
“I really think that that place is essential to 
(Midtown’s) survival,” she said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  CANTINA,  from pg. 1The company owes almost $21,200 Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
SAVE LIVES, KILL TIME  
From left: Ryan O’Connell, a 21-year-old food and resource economics senior, is monitored by Lacey Webb, a donor services technician, behind the Hub on Monday morning during the What Colors Do You Bleed? Blood Drive. “My main motive is to help save lives and kill some time, ” O’Connell said. The event is the 11th annual T ennessee versus UF blood drive competition, which will be held until Friday.
“The mystery of where it’s 
gone is sort of the next 
piece of the puzzle.”
Jason Meneely
UF associate professor
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Cantina stays open on Monday at night after it was served an eviction notice. “The employees don’t know anything about this (eviction), (the chef) doesn’t know anything either, ” said one Cantina employee, who declined to be named.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
As Gainesville Mayor Lauren 
Poe read aloud to a room of about 
80 people Monday night, the au-
dience laughed, applauded and listened.
The event was the first in a se-
ries of book club meetings to be 
held by the mayor at the Head-
quarters Branch of the Alachua County Library District in down-town Gainesville. 
Monday’s meeting discussed 
racial themes from the book “Be-tween the World and Me” by Ta-Nehisi Coates.
The book, which won the 2015 
National Book Award for Nonfic-
tion, was written by Coates for his 
teenage son about the past, pres-ent and future of being African-American in the U.S.
“When you’re accustomed to 
privilege, equality feels like op-pression,” Poe read from one pas-sage of the book.
The majority of the audience 
made sounds of agreement and 
nodded.
Poe divided the hourlong meet -ing into two parts. First, three pan-
elists and friends of Poe responded 
to various excerpts of text read aloud by the mayor. The audience 
was then given the opportunity to 
respond to one question: “What 
did you learn from this book?”
The event began promptly at 
6 p.m., but people trickled in and 
pulled up chairs in the packed 
room until about 6:20 p.m. Many 
read along and highlighted key 
phrases or scribbled notes on notepads.Throughout the discussion, 
Brandon Telg, 27, sat on the left side of the room typing notes on his phone. When the audience 
was dismissed, he remained in his 
seat, thinking. 
“The thing is, we need to lis-
ten to each other,” Telg said. “We need to care about other people’s 
stories. When we do that, we can 
wipe away all this fear that we 
have.”
Pablo Garces said his humani-
ties class at Santa Fe College was Gaassigned to read the book and 
attend the meeting. The electrical engineering freshman said it was more than just an assignment to him.
“It talked about such a relevant 
problem,” Garces, 18, said. “My mind immediately jumped to the police shootings that have been happening. I just came to see what solutions people had for this prob-
lem.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org
Book club held by GNV mayor discusses race
Molly Donovan / Alligator Staff
Around 80 people listened, read and took notes at Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe’s book club meet-
ing on Monday night. During the meeting, attendees shared what they learned from “Between the World and Me” by T a-Nehisi Coates.
THE AVERAGE PRICE 
OF A MEAL AND  
DRINK IS $10
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
When searching for the perfect 
burrito, Gainesville students and locals now have one more restau-rant to choose from.
Costa Vida Fresh Mexican 
Grill, a restaurant franchise based in Utah, opened for business Mon-day at its new location on Archer Road.The restaurant, located at 3581 
SW Archer Road, is the first of its kind in Florida, although another location will be built on West Uni-versity Avenue next year, said 
Brad Slaughter, an operations 
partner.
It is open from 10:30 a.m. to 10 
p.m. on weekdays and from 10:30 
p.m. to midnight on the weekend. 
The restaurant will hold a grand 
opening Sept. 24. Starting at 10:30 
a.m., the first 100 customers in line will receive free burritos for a year, Slaughter said.
Costa Vida’s menu is influ-
enced by Baja California and Mex-ican flavors, Slaughter said. The 
food uses fresh ingredients, which 
include tortillas and salsa made at the restaurant daily. 
The average price of a meal 
and drink is $10, and protein op-
tions include grilled chicken and 
steak along with shrimp, sweet pork and raspberry chicken.
“We’re not just your other 
common burrito place,” Slaughter 
said. “(Burritos are) the ooey-goo-
ey feel-good food.”
On Monday, about 200 people 
visited the restaurant, he said.
“Everybody was very hap-
py with the product,” he said. “Gainesville’s been growing and 
we definitely identified that and 
wanted to be part of that growth.”
Mike Hanna, a 23-year-old UF 
alumnus, said the friendly ser-
vice, cheap prices and large, di-
verse portions made it the perfect 
fit for him.
“Here they have a lot more 
options,” Hanna said after order-
ing a sweet pork burrito. “It’s 
like a firework explosion in your 
mouth.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org New Mexican restaurant on Archer opens
Kelsey Bona / Alligator Staff 
Fresh-faced employees serve up Mexican food during Costa Vida Fresh Mexican Grill’s opening on Southwest Archer Road on Monday afternoon. Sam Haddock, a partner with H2R Restaurant Group working with Costa Vida, said, “We decided to come to Gainesville because it’s got a great student population. Plus there’s also a great family environment, and both of those attributes fit our brand to a tee. ”
WELLS FARGO IS 
PAYING $185 MILLION 
IN PENALTIES FOR 
SECRET ACCOUNTS
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF’s relationship with Wells 
Fargo is not changing after a scan-
dal involving employees opening 
secret accounts without custom-
ers’ knowledge. 
About 5,300 employees were 
involved in opening the accounts 
and charging customers for non-
existent fees, according to USA To-day. The bank agreed to pay $185 million in civil penalties Thursday, including $50 million to the city 
and county of Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia. 
The bank repaid customers $2.6 
million, according to USA Today. 
No UF accounts were affected, 
wrote UF spokesperson Janine 
Sikes, in an email. At this time, 
nothing has changed regarding UF’s relationship with the com-pany, she said. 
It’s unclear if the scandal af-
fected other Florida or Gainesville banks, Michael Gray, the North Florida Wells Fargo communica-tions consultant, wrote in an email. 
“We do not have a geographic 
breakdown for these announce-ments,” he wrote. 
The secret accounts were 
opened over a five-year period, he said. Employees who were fired in relation to the scandal make up about 1 percent of the 100,000-per-
son workforce. 
Rainey Tyner, a first-year UF 
veterinary graduate student, said 
she switched to a Wells Fargo ac-
count when she started her under-
graduate degree at UF about five years ago. 
“I definitely felt pressured 
to switch to Wells Fargo,” the 
22-year-old said. “If I wouldn’t 
have switched, then I wouldn’t have access to the ATMs on cam-pus.” 
Tyner said she wasn’t surprised 
to hear about the scandal. 
“Banks are sketchy,” Tyner 
said. “Honestly, though, I haven’t had any problems with (Wells Far-
go).” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org UF, bank 
partnership 
unaffected
“Banks are sketchy. Honestly, 
though, I haven’t had any 
problems with (W ells Fargo).”
Rainey Tyner
UF veterinary graduate studentThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORCoping with 
the changes on 
University Avenue
University Avenue, what happened?
Ever since we left Spring 2016 behind, you just 
keep changing. Balls and Gator City closed. Leon-
ardo’s By the Slice is closing down one location. 
And now, with an eviction notice served on 101 
Cantina, we may have to say goodbye to another University Avenue staple. 
Of course, since watching a wrecking ball take off the 
roof of our former ofﬁ  ce Sunday, we at the Alligator have a personal attachment to the changes happening to our old stomping grounds. And since we’ve survived our own up-heaval, we’re here to offer support to our fellow students in 
this time of need. 
Here’s what you need to remember: It’ll be OK. 
We know, we know. Change is scary. It’s been hard cop-
ing with the loss of our favorite places to make questionable 
life choices, and possibly saying goodbye to bright blue ﬁ  sh-
bowls and #SundayFunday tequila shots on the hour seems like too much to bear. 
But as a Student Body, we’ll get through this together. The memories will live on. We’ll never forget all those 
bookstore charges on our credit cards that really meant $2 doubles for all of our friends at Balls instead of textbooks. Or all the blurry Snapchats you took with bartenders and beers on your 21st. Or eating way too many garlic rolls at 
Leo’s when you already devoured a massive slice of cheese 
pizza. 
Amid all this change, we cannot be afraid to give new 
places a chance. 
Midtown Social seems to have promise, especially with a 
rooftop bar and ﬂ  avored macaroni and cheese. The Standard is not only offering new apartments, but also a Chick-ﬁ  l-A and Bento Cafe. And more restaurants have already signed on to move into the complex’s building. Although we’re 
still not sure what’s taking over Leo’s, we’ll hold out 
hope that the university replaces it with something of qual-ity. 
We also can’t forget about the classics that are sticking 
around: the best drunk pizza slices you can ask for at Italian 
Gator Pizza by the Slice, greasy goodness at Relish and even 
the intoxicated mayhem at Grog House (we can’t believe we just said that, but who can resist Beat the Clock?). 
Chances are that in a couple of years, when we’re vis-
iting as insistent-I-can-still-pass-for-a-student alumni, we may not recognize Midtown. But that’s part of what makes Gainesville a great college town — it’s constantly changing to reﬂ  ect new generations of students that pass through ev-ery four years. Speaking from personal experience, we say 
it’s pretty great to be able to reminisce about the old but still 
have an opportunity to embrace the new. And that’s what we’ll continue to do, ﬁ  shbowls or not, in Midtown.  
Just don’t take Chipotle Mexican Grill or Dunkin’ Do-
nuts. That’s all we ask.A witty ‘SpongeBob SquarePants’ title
In my past two columns, I discussed both 
the visual and audio design of “SpongeBob SquarePants” and how they inﬂ  uence its com-edy. The show’s gone south since season four, and the changes to its animation and sound 
are pretty clear and indicate a pretty solid drop in quality. So, for this ﬁ  nal column, let’s talk about two things: the characters and the jokes. 
In writing these columns, I struggled to ﬁ  nd 
any online resources that analyzed “SpongeBob SquarePants” as a culmination of artistic tech-niques, but plenty of YouTube content creators have made it clear that even the characters themselves lack the charm and likeability of their pre-movie iterations, and the epi-sodes’ plots reﬂ  ect that. The cast has become a poor man’s commedia dell’arte; every character has his or her nuances and becomes a trope. 
Patrick Star was somewhat disillusioned but always 
managed to exude this air of conﬁ  dence, which SpongeBob would usually fall prey to. He was a goofball like Sponge-Bob, but he was also SpongeBob’s foil. He was not — as he is now — brainless and manipulative. Squidward Tentacles was an artist; he was pretentious and stuck in the rat race. He could ﬁ  nd solace in his art, and his relationship with SpongeBob was not hostile but rather resentful, almost jeal-ous of SpongeBob’s naivety. He was not — as he is now — depressed and rage-ﬁ  lled. In fact, in a season-eight episode, a depressed Squidward alludes to two attempts at suicide: He shoves his head in the oven, only to grab a batch of brownies, and then he throws a rope over a hook in his house, only to pull up a bird cage. It’s incredibly unsettling.
Most importantly, SpongeBob was naive. He was a 
young adult growing into a very adult world. He was mal-leable; earlier seasons of the show are chock-full of mor-als for SpongeBob to learn, and SpongeBob is regularly led down the wrong path by Patrick, Squidward or Mr. Krabs. SpongeBob was excitable but not ignorant; rather, he was out of the loop. His laugh was annoying, but his character wasn’t. He was not — as he is now — obnoxious, ignorant and incessant.
So, the characters are gross exaggerations. 
What does this do for the comedy? For one, the jokes get stale. Stock characters acting like themselves isn’t inherently funny; rather, their interactions with each other and the dynamics they produce create comedy. Juxtaposition is a huge part of comedy because it pits together two dissimilar characters. When they’re to-
gether, their differences are accentuated. Comedy is about irony, and irony is about co-existing opposites.
There’s a fundamental difference between acting silly 
and being funny. Silliness, in this context, is making a sil-ly face, saying a funny word, farting or anything of that nature. Silliness lacks context. And without that context, no one will call your silliness “funny.” Rather, they’ll call it “immature” or simply “odd.” The context that silliness needs to be funny is juxtaposition: A 20-second silence dur-ing a dramatic scene is broken by a light fart. The camera pans across a line of stone-faced soldiers, covered in dirt and blood, passes a soldier with a goofy grin and a “get them commies” pin on his jacket and continues to pan across more stone-faced soldiers. 
“SpongeBob SquarePants” nowadays has an incredible 
lack of juxtaposition. There are no longer characters with whom the audience can identify, because every character is a trope. When every character is at his or her extreme, you lose that juxtaposition. 
I said this would be my last “SpongeBob SquarePants” 
column, but I really want to write one on the slapstick — particularly on how gross “SpongeBob SquarePants” epi-sodes have become. Am I going to write it? I’ll make that decision in a week.
Michael Smith is a UF art freshman. His column runs on 
Tuesdays, so you’d better go catch it!
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgColumnTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
What is it about the term “politi-
cally correct” that manages to put everyone on high alert? Some blame the term for infringing on their First-Amendment rights, 
others use it as a justiﬁ  cation to inﬂ  ame Facebook comment threads, but mostly we avoid uttering it altogether to avoid the ac-companying controversy. These two simple words have expanded to become intrinsical-ly linked to an abundance of other concepts such as safe spaces and trigger warnings, but even beyond that, it has taken on a connota-tion of triviality and ridicule.
How did a term that was once a positive 
ideal evolve into a snide insult? What even 
is the true deﬁ  nition of political correctness? 
These are all questions that have occurred to me at some point in my time at UF but were brushed off in favor of more immediate con-cerns. However, this semester I was lucky enough to snag a spot in a linguistics course titled “Language and Power” — you’ll recall I never tell my parents the actual titles of the classes I’m taking — and while it’s only week four, I’ve begun to learn why the “PC po-lice” can’t shake their bad reputa-
tion.
Political correctness has a 
slightly more scholarly cousin 
called language reform: a term linguists use to refer to represen-tational justice in language use. It’s political correctness without the accumulated stigma, so the original intent to use nondiscriminatory language 
shines through. Seems simple enough, right?
Of course not, because when you start reg-
ulating other people’s language, it’s bound 
to get tricky for a variety of reasons. First, people generally don’t like being told what to do. Second, they don’t like being told that their language, their means of expressing themselves, is unintentionally demeaning to others. Our language is deeply rooted in our 
sense of self, and it’s impossible to criticize someone’s language without that 
person feeling as if their character is under attack.
When I accidentally referred to 
someone in my class by the wrong 
gender pronouns, and was imme-
diately corrected by another class-mate, I felt a lot of simultaneous emotions: not only embarrassment and confusion, but also annoyance and frustration. It’s hard not to take those sorts of criticisms per-
sonally because they feel so close to home. But I quickly realized that it wasn’t about 
me or my feelings, it was about using my 
language to make everyone around me feel comfortable. While I’m positive, I’ll slip up in a similar manner in the future, the impor-tant part is that I’m trying.
That frustration I initially felt is what’s 
motivating the characterization of political correctness as frivolous or authoritative. By classifying politically correct language as a 
pointless trend, those who are resistant to change can discredit it without feeling guilty. 
But while language reform can undoubtedly feel frivolous when compared to more press-ing societal issues, it’s still a step toward in-clusivity, and thus it's worth the effort.
When you strip away all the negative 
press and bad attitudes, language reform 
isn’t infringing on your right to free speech or coddling the millennial mind or waging a 
war on Christmas. This isn’t to say people 
aren’t using political correctness as an ex-
cuse to attack or silence others because that 
undoubtedly occurs, but this isn’t in the true spirit of language reform. Incurring the risk 
of sounding like a Kumbaya-singing opti-
mist, if we work together to better ourselves 
and consider how our language may be laden 
with involuntary meanings, the original in-tent of language reform will be achieved. In  
other words, just don’t be an a--hole, guys.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. 
Her columns appear on Tuesdays. 
 Language reform and the origins of the term 'political correctness'
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
Words are heavy. Every letter of every phrase carries weight that we as speakers tend to overlook. Diction is an inﬂ  uential tool made powerful not by the mouths that 
voice it but rather by the ears that receive it. No matter what, somebody is always listening.
The word “retard” plagues the airwaves of 
our university. It’s in the classrooms and on the ﬁ  elds, which is evident in everyday conver-sations among peers and even distinguished adults. It’s astonishing to hear its incorrect use, a casual expression that can be form-ﬁ  t-ted to every distress, coming from some of the most prominent mouths on campus.
It’s not an elastic word, and it certainly 
shouldn’t be used as slander. “Retard” — an abbreviation stemming from retardation — is a medical classiﬁ  cation, and it’s important for us to stop and understand the full context of this classiﬁ  cation and how this social interpre-tation is undoubtedly ignorant.  
There are over 14.3 million individuals who bear a disability in the U.S. Whether it’s cognitive, emotional or physical, 6 percent of all Americans are restricted in some way. With such a high density of disabilities in this great nation, it’s surprising how our rhetoric has seemingly slipped through the cracks. A re-tarded person is someone who is handicapped,. A retarded person is not someone who goofs up when hanging out with a group of friends.
When the euphemistic interpretation of the 
word “retard” is used in everyday conversa-tion, an entire population is besieged. Millions of blameless people — people who breathe the same air and feel the same love as anyone else — are automatically presumed inferior. Some of the purest hearts and minds arise from those with disabilities, and it is thoughtless to reduce them to just one poorly adapted word.
Let it be understood that this is not an argu-
ment for “political correctness,” nor is it a rep-rimand of those who use the world frequently.
Simply put, this is a plea for 
us all to show more respect — to use an empathetic looking glass. Empathy required in order to truly understand the weight of the word “retarded.” Anyone who has ever spent time with a learning-disabled person knows the true power of the 
word and the demeaning effect of its casual adaptation.
What you might take as a simple joke or 
light-hearted pass between friends may very well be a demoralizing comment to those around you who are disabled in some way or know and love someone who is. Your words matter; they may not matter to you, but once they’re out in the air, they can injure those around you. You can’t brush that kind of pain off with a halfhearted apology. Any playful in-tentions don’t matter. What translates is your word and your actions.Of course, there is nothing wrong with jok-
ing between friends over stupidity or futility, but it has been a long time since we came up with another word that doesn’t needlessly cause others pain.
Now, I realize many of you will simply 
brush this piece off as overly sensitive non-sense and carry on using “retard” without worry. Recognize, then, the point at which you are placing more value in being stubborn and uncompromising than in how you might very well be causing others pain. Is that the kind of personality you strive for? Ego over empathy?
In order to truly grasp the fault in using the 
word “retard” carelessly, consider volunteer-ing an hour of your time to an organization dedicated to special needs. Take note of the smiles and the pure joy you’ll encounter and remember that when choosing your words in the future.
Max Chesnes is a UF journalism sopho-
more.
Choosing your speech carefully: on the use of the word ‘retarded’Guest column
Max Chesnes
Speaking Out8   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016
By Lee Ann Ruffier
Alligator Contributing Writer
In Alachua County, about one 
in every four children don’t have 
reliable access to food.
On Thursday, a Gainesville-
based food bank will highlight its feeding efforts in Alachua County and across north Florida in celebra-tion of Hunger Awareness Month.
Bread of the Mighty Food Bank, 
in partnership with Feeding Amer-ica, will host a Hunger Action Day event at the food bank, located at 352 NW 10th Ave.“We’re trying to get more peo-
ple to see who we are,” said Lo-retta Griffis, the bank’s director of community outreach. “So many people are blown away by how 
much we do.”
The event, which will take place 
from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m., will invite participants to tour the food bank 
and ask questions about food in-security and efforts to combat it in Alachua County.
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
will proclaim Sept. 15 Hunger Ac-tion Day, which Griffis hopes will inspire more residents to get in-volved.
Last year, the food bank distrib-
uted 7.2 million pounds of food in five counties: Alachua, Dixie, Gilchrist, Lafayette and Levy, she 
said.
But despite its best efforts, the 
number of hungry people the food bank sees every day has increased 
in recent months, Griffis said.
At UF, students and faculty 
members are not immune to the 
struggle of food insecurity, she 
said.
The on-campus Field and Fork 
Pantry, which offers free non-perishable food to anyone with a 
Gator 1 Card,  receives major dona-
tions from the food bank.
Julissa Rodriguez, an 18-year-
old UF exploratory freshman, said 
it is important for students to learn 
about the hunger issue spreading through the city and UF campus. 
She said if more students knew 
that some of their peers may be struggling to feed themselves, they may feel compelled to get involved.
“Being more aware grounds 
us and helps us to be more active members of the community,” Ro-driguez said.
WHERE YOU CAN DONATE
• Bread of the Mighty Food Bank, 352 NW 10th Ave.
• Gainesville Community Ministry, 238 SW Fourth Ave.
• Field and Fork Food Pantry, 520 Newell Drive
• Gainesville Harvest, 904 NW Fourth St.
• Catholic Charities Bureau, 1701 NE Ninth St.GNV food bank to recognize Hunger Awareness Month
By Summer Orsini
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students can now rent 
clothes from their peers for up to 
four days through an app.
The Curtsy app, which launched 
at UF on Monday, allows users to rent formal dresses, rompers, jumpsuits and two-piece outfits 
at discounted prices, said Brooke 
Meitzler, the Curtsy lead marketer. The app is free and available for 
download on any iPhone, iPad or 
iPod Touch.
Students connect to Curtsy 
through their UF email addresses, she said. Matches for renters are 
filtered based on location, avail-
ability, size, brand, color and style.
Clothing prices range from 
about $60 to $300, with high-end 
designer options such as BCBG 
Max Azria, Parker, For Love and Lemons and Free People, Meitzler said.
“We advertise it as a local ‘Rent 
The Runway,’” the 22-year-old said. “It encourages women to look 
at their closet as an investment, be-
cause they can make money off of their garments.”
Users have 24 hours to try an 
owner’s garment on before being charged, she said.
 As a precaution, Curtsy also re-
quires renters pay a $5 insurance fee to cover any minor garment damages. 
Rachel Chapman, a UF health 
science senior, said she plans on using the app.
“Buying new clothes all the time 
gets so expensive, especially when 
you only wear it once or twice,” the 
21-year-old said. “It seems like an awesome idea that will allow girls who don’t know each other well to 
borrow and exchange clothes for a 
weekend.”New app lets students rent high-end clothing
Courtesy to the Alligator
Curtsy, an app that launched on Monday at UF, 
lets users rent formal dresses, rompers and two-piece outfits for discounted prices.
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
BACC TO BUSINESS
Kara Conley, 22, a fifth-year student in the Fisher School of Accounting’s professional program, tells a student about the Warrington Diplomats program. About 400 people attended an event, hosted by the Business Administration College Council (BACC), on Monday evening to showcase the college’s various organizations.
LAST YEAR THE ORGANIZATION 
RAISED $6,000 FOR  
PEDIATRIC CANCER RESEARCH.
By Amanda Nardi 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students in the UF College of Pharmacy are 
raising money to benefit the National Pediatric 
Cancer Foundation.
The American Pharmacists Association’s Acad-
emy of Student Pharmacists and PediaGators are working together to host Pennies for Peds, a fun-draiser that raises money for pediatric cancer re-
search. It will run through September, which is 
childhood cancer awareness month, said Joette Amundaray, the vice president of membership for PediaGators.
“Pediatrics is a passion of mine, and it’s what I 
want to do with my career,” the 23-year-old third-year UF pharmacy graduate student said. “I’ve had a personal experience with pediatric cancer, and it’s something that I really care about.”
As of press time, the fundraiser has raised more 
than $400. 
Sarah Fawaz, a third-year UF pharmacy gradu-
ate student and vice president of patient care proj-ects for the student association, created Pennies 
for Peds last year when she began asking friends, 
family and classmates to donate spare change for pediatric cancer research. On the first day, she raised $53.
Fawaz then reached out to all four UF pharmacy 
school campuses in Florida to get other students involved. Last year, Pennies for Peds raised a total of $6,000. This year’s goal is to raise $10,000, she said. 
Fawaz has never been directly impacted by 
pediatric cancer, but she said she felt like it was her duty to raise awareness for the kids who don’t have a voice.
“Parents are not thinking about how they can 
raise awareness for this when they are worrying about how to keep their child alive,” the 24-year-old said. “It’s up to the people with the energy and time to help these kids to do something about it.”UF students 
raise money for 
cancer research
“It’s up to the people with the energy and time 
to help these kids to do something about it.”
Sarah Fawaz
Founder, Pennies for PedsPrices range from $60 to $300TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Good food,
good life.Good food,
good life.
be smart.
eat local.
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Type of sweet potato 
found as an alternative source for fuel
Two UF researchers have discovered a certain 
type of sweet potato that can serve as an alterna-
tive source for fuel and animal food. 
Ann Wilkie, a professor in the Soil and Wa-
ter Sciences Department at the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, and her post-doctoral researcher, Wendy Mussoline, conduct-
ed the two-year study and found that different 
parts of a sweet potato can be used for biofuel or food. 
CX-1 is an industrial sweet potato variety. 
The CX-1 sweet potato vines, or above-ground 
part of the sweet potato, can be used as a source 
for fuel ethanol. 
The vegetable’s levels of starch, higher than 
the regular sweet potatoes that people eat, al-
lows it to be used for bioethanol. The roots can 
also be used to feed animals.
“I’m thinking of it in terms of efficient agri-
culture — feed and fuel from one crop,” Wilkie said.
The dual-purpose use of the CX-1 sweet pota-
to makes it a more sustainable and land-efficient crop, she said. 
“I think it could help in many fronts,” Wilkie 
said. “The most important thing to think about is fossil fuels will be depleted at one point in the future. They will all run out, and the time to develop alternatives is now.”
The group, which studied the crop in Apopka, 
Florida, received a $158,000 grant in Spring to expand the study. They began the study by test-ing crops at UF’s Mid-Florida Research and Edu-cation Center in Apopka.
- Jimena T avelUF researchers win award 
for hops study, expand program 
A team of UF researchers has garnered 
attention from horticulturists, craft brewers 
and beer enthusiasts alike for their research on 
hops. 
Brian Pearson, a UF assistant professor of 
environmental horticulture, has spent the past 
year studying how hops, a plant sensitive to 
varying amounts of daylight exposure, grow in 
Florida.
 The plant has grown here since 2012. His research on alternative crop systems, in-
cluding the hops study, won third place at the 
Early Career Awards from the American Society 
of Horticultural Sciences. 
Pearson and his fellow researchers received a 
grant in the Spring, which allowed them to ex-
pand from a study of 60 hops plants to nearly 
500 plants. 
The project’s goal is to discover which strains 
of hops will thrive in Florida’s climate, since most hops grow further north. 
The researchers will also look at unique qual-
ities of the local hops, Pearson said. 
Some of the strains have shown high essential 
oils, indicating a different flavor profile found 
only in locally-grown crops. 
The flavor aspect has caught the attention of 
home brewers, like Pearson himself. 
“We’ve got an amazing — almost overwhelm-
ing — amount of people that have been follow-ing this, and it’s been a really fun, exciting pro-
gram,” Pearson said.
- Romy Ellenbogen
 UF researchers discover 
way to study low-dose chemicals in water
UF researchers have found a new way to ana-
lyze low doses of pharmaceuticals and personal 
care products in bodies of water.   
Over the past two years, researchers in the 
Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences tested levels of light intensity affecting different types of pharmaceutical pollutants in a freshwater 
environment created in their lab, said Rafael 
Muñoz-Carpena, a professor in UF’s Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering. Mu-ñoz-Carpena led the study, which was published Wednesday. 
Antibiotics, caffeine, nicotine and ibuprofen 
were among the 16 pharmaceuticals tested.
The study can help researchers understand 
how chemicals affect aquatic life, he said. 
“Things that stress the organisms are present 
always, such as light and temperature,” he said. “So we used light as one of those environmental stressors.”
Past studies have tested the chemicals in high 
doses but have disregarded the impact of low concentrations, Muñoz-Carpena said. 
With this study, he added, researchers will be 
able to better understand how combinations of 
chemicals, even at low doses, affect the environ-
ment.
It was important to include environmental 
factors in the setting of the experiments, Muñoz-
Carpena said. Chemical mixtures get mixed in water and are diluted when they end up in rivers or lakes, so studying lower doses of the chemi-cals allows researchers to get a more accurate 
idea of the impact.
- Cecilia LemusTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-3-16-29-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
Gleim Design is looking for a strong full time Maintenance Tech.Good background in general maintenance. Plumbing, electrical, mechanical and paint-ing skills desirable. Must have a truck and tools. Good driving record. Current drivers license. Ability to lift 50+ lbs.
Stable work. Great benefit package that in-
cludes medical, dental, vision, disability, life, AD&D, profit sharing/retirement, PTO andholiday pay and more.
Please send a resume to hr@gleim.com.    
9-13-16-10-14
NOW HIRING UF/SFC Students 
Production / Delivery / Stock Clerks
$10 - $13/hr
Apply at: SmokinNotes.com/Production
9-19-16-12-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working studentPART-TIME / LAND MAINTENANCEON WEEKENDS.Start at $10/hr.Contact: FairOaks1879@aol.com    9-14-16-5-14University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Home/Apartment/office cleaners needed ASAP. Weekly pay 8.50/hr $200-$350 week-ly. Must have a reliable car of your own and be able to pass a drug/background check. If really interested please call 352-214-0868.     9-15-16-5-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 24 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     9-23-16-10-14
Local TV station now hiring control room operators. Must be able to work nights and weekends. Equal opportunity employer.For details find Gainesville openings atsbgtv-openhire.silkroad.com     9-13-16-2-14
Mortgage company looking for part-time lead originators. $12/hour plus bonus. Weekday evenings. Students preferred. Email your contact info or resume to mike@AmericanFinancial.loans     9-16-16-5-14
ACROSS
1 Oodles and
oodles
6 Airport idlers
10 Poetic foot
14 Kemper of
“UnbreakableKimmy Schmidt”
15 Wintry coating16 Tennis court
surface
17 Work with a loom18 How some
sloganed T-shirts
should be washed
20 Toddler’s taboo
21 Ocho minus
cinco
22 More than rotund23 Baltic Sea capital25 RC or Pepsi27 1998
Bullock/Kidmanfilm involvingwitchcraft
33 Metal-rich
deposits
34 Chicken chow __35 Catch37 Dollar competitor38 High in the sky40 Flag Day month41 Maiden name
intro
42 Clicker’s target43 Not at all excited44 Going to the
grocery store, thebank, etc.
48 Word on a
shoppe sign
49 Data set average50 “Gone With the
Wind” familyname
53 Uno card55 Knight’s weapon59 Unsportsmanlike
behavior
61 Divided island of
Southeast Asia
62 Twistable cookie63 Ritz-Carlton rival64 Scent65 Chestnut horse66 “And away __!”67 Some speeches
open with them... as do thispuzzle’s fourlongest entries
DOWN
1 Mended using
stitches, with “up”
2 Elizabeth Taylor
role, informally3 Economist
Greenspan
4 Acts like
Elizabeth Taylor?
5 “Understand?”6 Former French
presidentJacques
7 Top-notch8 Symbol for the
lower pianomusic part
9 __ Lanka
10 Swelling reducer11 Medicinal
houseplant
12 Rodent in a
German lab
13 Data unit
19 Ken or Daria of
financial
journalism
21 __ Friday’s24 “__ all good”26 Leave out27 Word after floor
or flight
28 Mars explorer29 “So long!” along
the Seine
30 In the middle of31 Preserve, as
ashes
32 Did some
wickerwork
36 Hotel count38 Corrosive liquid
39 In need of a
friend
40 Surrealist painter
from Barcelona
42 Subsurface
woodwork
decoration
43 Bikini top
45 Big name in
antivirus software
46 Estevez of “The
Breakfast Club”47 Hollywood agent
50 Scent51 “Big Hero 6” hero52 Neck of the woods
54 Classic arcade
game Donkey __
56 Every which way
57 Obedience
school command
58 Historic periods
60 Comics punch
sound
61 __ Mahal
By Neville Fogarty©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/13/1609/13/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, September 13, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12 Autos
12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
SEC announces start time for Florida vs. Tennessee
Florida and T ennessee will play their Sept. 24 matchup at 3:30 p.m., the 
Southeastern Conference announced Monday. The game will be played in 
Knoxville and will air on CBS.Kelly Grassel and the UF 
women's golf team sit in third place after Day 1 of their ﬁ  rst Fall tournament.Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Luke Del Rio has never been 
coached by someone who hasn’t 
screamed in his face after a good 
game.
At least, that’s what he made it 
sound like.
“They’re going to tell you the 
way it is,” De Rio said. 
“They expect you to make every 
play.”
On Saturday, it seemed like Flor-
ida’s quarterback did. He threw for 
320 yards and four touchdowns, 
both career highs. 
He completed a 78-yard pass — 
55 yards of which were in the air  
— to receiver Antonio Callaway. 
He connected on 19 of his 32 
passes in his ﬁ  rst-ever Southeast-
ern Conference start.
But 30 minutes after Florida’s 
45-7 blowout of Kentucky, one of the ﬁ  rst things coach Jim McElwain talked about was Del Rio’s lone in-terception.
“That’s unacceptable,” McEl-
wain said. 
“That’s something we’ve got to 
work on.”
On Monday, McElwain said Del Rio must work on setting his feet in the pocket, which caused him to 
overthrow freshman Freddie Swain 
in the third quarter.“Just ridiculous,” McElwain 
said.
He also lamented a throw to 
Brandon Powell in the red zone that Del Rio missed. He threw it too late.
“That bothers me,” McElwain 
said.
McElwain mostly focused on 
Del Rio’s negatives after his best 
game as a quarterback. There was almost no mention of any of his four scoring plays, his seemingly 
perfect ﬁ  t in McElwain’s offense or 
his ability to score points for an of-
fense that ranked 100th in scoring last season.
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF's QB  beneﬁ  tting from McElwain's coaching style
Del Rio: 'I knew what kind of coach he was'
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Luke Del Rio (center) huddles with his 
offensive line during Florida's 45-7 rout of Kentucky on 
Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Del Rio threw for 
a career high 320 yards and four touchdowns.
By Drew Kozlin
Sports Writer 
Florida coach Gregg Troy 
met with reporters Monday 
morning with a smile on his face.
And who could blame him?The Gators’ swimming ros-
ter for the 2016 season boasts three swimmers who competed at the Olympic Games in Rio last month. The most notable, Caeleb Dressel, earned two gold medals for the United States.
“Very few teams actually have a medalist coming back and competing in college,” Troy said. 
Troy also made sure to 
acknowledge senior Mitch D’Arrigo, who swam for Italy, and junior Jan Switkowski, who competed for Poland.“Those three athletes are 
back in school so that gives you a great sense of their focus moving forward,” Troy said. “All three swam exceptionally well.”
Despite the great success of 
Florida's current Olympians, Troy believes the entire team is ready to compete at a high level. The athletes who didn’t compete not only had extra training time, but also have something to prove in response 
 After Rio, UF swimming team boasts Olympic success
Dressel
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
He just wanted to make a play. Coaches and teammates had 
raved about him in the lead-up to the season, and this — the ﬁ  rst car-ry of true freshman running back Lamical Perine’s college career — was his chance to show everyone why. 
And then it wasn’t. Massachusetts defensive line-man Ali Ali-Musa busted through Florida’s line, met Perine in the backﬁ  eld and punched the ball out of his arm. 
Even though Florida recovered 
the fumble, Perine jogged off and never returned in Florida’s season opener. 
“Of course he was upset,” quar-
terback Luke Del Rio said. “I’d be mad if he wasn’t upset. But he didn’t get in the gutter. He didn’t pack it in.”The freshman proved as much 
in Saturday’s game against Ken-tucky when he got his second chance, this time taking 17 carries and never fumbling.
Instead, he redeemed himself to 
the tune of a team-best 105 yards rushing and caught a touchdown pass in Florida’s 45-7 win. 
“He played incredible on Satur-
day,” Del Rio said. “I’m really proud with him, the way he played.”
But Perine wasn’t the only freshman to call attention to him-self in the win. Two games into the season, it’s been him and offensive lineman Jawaan Taylor drawing praises. 
And for Perine, the praises don’t 
stop at Del Rio. 
“He’s a beast,” running back 
Mark Thompson said on Satur-day. “He’s another elite player. He knows exactly what he’s doing when he gets the ball in his hands. For a young guy, that’s amazing to see.”
Thompson added that Perine 
plays with conﬁ  dence, something the redshirt junior said he lacked as a freshman. 
“I had jitters, butterﬂ  ies all the 
time,” Thompson said. “He looks relaxed out there.”
Perine’s success may come as a 
surprise to some, as he came into the season last on Florida’s run-ning back depth chart. He’s also 
 Pair of freshmen football players proving worth for GatorsSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
SEE FRESHMEN,  PAGE 14
SEE SWIMMING,  PAGE 1414   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016
“Yeah, he gets after me pretty 
good,” Del Rio said. “I expect it 
though. I came here to play for 
him. I knew what kind of coach he 
was and is. I never really want to 
play for a coach that’s like ‘ah, it’s 
OK, get the next one,’ you know?”
Good thing for Del Rio, that’s 
McElwain’s M.O. After Florida’s 
first two games, the coach ana-
lyzed each of Del Rio’s throws to 
let the quarterback know which 
ones he liked and which ones he 
didn’t. 
After UF’s win against Massa-
chusetts, McElwain said there were six unacceptable passes. After Ken-
tucky, the coach said there were a 
“couple.” 
He wants to get down to zero.
“You actually have to fail to 
learn,” McElwain said. 
“All the great ones failed more 
than they won. It’s because they’re willing to go out there and do it, 
right? Learning from failure is the 
key, and that’s for every position.”
And there were signs of Del Rio 
learning against Kentucky. The 
quarterback said there were throws 
that he missed during UF’s opener 
on Sept. 3 — like a short sideline 
pass to freshman receiver Josh 
Hammond — that he made against Kentucky. 
He also said his throwing me-
chanics improved after meeting 
with McElwain, who’s teaching 
him to set his feet properly each 
time he throws deep.
“That’s the good thing about 
it. It’s important to him, and he 
likes to be coached. He’s kind of 
a sponge when it comes to that 
stuff,” McElwain said.
 “I think that’s part of growing 
up in it a little bit. He’s seen guys 
being coached and he knows it. I’ll 
be interested to see how he does 
this week.”
Injury notes: 
Receiver Antonio Callaway 
did not practice with the team on Monday after injuring his quadri-
ceps against Kentucky on Saturday, and McElwain said he isn’t sure if 
Callaway will practice this week. If Callaway doesn’t practice by 
Wednesday, McElwain said he will be ruled out for Saturday’s game 
against North Texas.
Freshman receiver Tyrie Cleve-
land was ruled out for Saturday’s 
game after re-injuring the same hamstring that he hurt before the 
season began. The former four-star 
recruit has yet to appear in a game 
for the Gators.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 13Callaway was injured Sat.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain stands on the sideline during UF's win against Kentucky on Saturday. 
Despite quarterback Luke Del Rio's career day, McElwain said he has to improve.
very young, though his 5-foot-11, 221-pound frame doesn’t suggest it. 
Coach Jim McElwain never 
doubted him, though. He’s been hyping up Perine since he arrived on campus in the summer. 
“I was excited about all of 
them,” McElwain said of pre-sea-son player evaluations, “but I really felt like he was a guy in the evalu-ation phase — I just think he is a good SEC back.”
Taylor is another player McEl-
wain was high on in the pre-sea-son, and the 6-foot-5, 340-pound offensive lineman didn’t disappoint in his first game action.
Coming on for injured right 
tackle Fred Johnson, Taylor — and the rest of Florida’s offensive line — didn’t allow a sack on Del Rio during the game. 
“Oh man, the Great Wall of 
‘Waany,” Del Rio said. “That’s what I call him. He’s a stone wall. He is the strongest punch I’ve ever seen a freshman have.”Despite his early success, Taylor 
could have never played this sea-son. He arrived at UF substantially overweight. 
The football staff challenged 
Taylor to drop some pounds to in-
crease his maneuverability, so he 
did. And so far, it’s paying off on the field. 
“He came back at the end of 
camp down to about 340 and play-
ing like a ball of rolling butcher 
knives,” McElwain said. 
His success coupled with 
Perine’s were major factors in Flor-ida’s win against Kentucky. And 
while it’s unknown how influential 
they’ll be in future games, Del Rio said he’s happy to have significant 
contributions coming from the duo. 
“It’s kind of hard to tell how 
freshmen are going to react when they play in the game,” Del Rio 
said.
“For those guys to go in calm-
minded and do their job is big.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgFRESHMEN,  from pg13Both played against UK
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Freshman Lamical Perine (22) runs toward the endzone during UF's 45-7 win over Kentucky on Saturday 
at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Perine was listed last among running backs on UF's preseason depth chart.
to the high level of their teammates' success.
“Those (Olympic) athletes are coming off a natural high,” Troy 
said. “But the athletes that didn’t compete at the Olympics have a real focus, so I think it’s one of the easiest years to get the team focused because of the success of what peo-ple have done in the Olympics.”
With the Olympics behind them, 
both the men’s and women’s teams are excited to get back to compet-ing.
They will start the 2016 season Sept. 23 in Fort Lauderdale at the All-Florida Invitational.
Troy is confident that the Olym-
pics will only add to the fire they bring. 
“The Olympic year has a dual impact,” Troy said. “It’s always exciting during that season and it’s just as exciting afterwards.”
@DrewKoz2
dkozlin@alligator.org
SWIMMING,  from pg13Florida starts its season Sept. 23 at the All-Florida InvitationalTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Alligator File Photo
Florida’s T aylor Tubbs runs during the 2015 Mountain Dew Invitational. Tubbs was one of three seniors to 
ﬁ  nish in the top-ﬁ  ve at the Covered Bridge Open on Sept. 2. 
Allligator File Photo
Florida’s Mac Reynolds (right-center) runs during the 2015 Mountain Dew Invitational.
By Skyler Lebron
Sport Writer
The Florida men’s and wom-
en’s cross country teams domi-nated the season’s ﬁ  rst meet, ﬁ  nishing ﬁ  rst on both sides at the Covered Bridge Open.
But that doesn’t mean coach 
Paul Spangler isn’t expecting improvement out of his players as the season marches on.
“Yeah it was a good start. 
Happy with the result,” Span-gler said. “But we’ve gotta get better because we know that everybody else is, too.”
While training and practice 
can help a team prepare for challenges ahead, a new runner can add an entirely new dynam-ic to an already strong squad.
Enter Jessica Pascoe.
The freshman from Australia 
is a highly coveted runner who 
couldn’t make the trip to the Covered Bridge Open. Instead, 
she will see action for the ﬁ  rst 
time at the Mountain Dew Invi-
tational in Gainesville on Sept. 24. 
“She just got back in the 
country a week ago, and so she missed a little bit of class and we didn’t want to take her out of anymore, so she didn’t go on the trip,” Spangler said. “She’ll race at Mountain Dew, and I think she makes us a lot better.”
Pascoe has a promising re-
sume internationally, ﬁ  nishing 20th in the 2014 Under-18 Di-vision Australian Cross Coun-try Championships and win-ning the 2016 Australian Junior Cross Country Championships in August.
Spangler is expecting im-
provement from another pair of fresh faces in freshmen Hannah Brookover and Maggie Parrish, who ﬁ  nished eighth and 19th, respectively, in the season’s ﬁ  rst meet.
“I think for a freshman com-
ing in, especially for their ﬁ  rst race, can be a little bit intimi-dating and I thought they han-dled it great,” Spangler said. 
Brookover’s ﬁ  nish was the 
highest among the freshmen on the women’s team, and Par-rish placed second in that same group.
Although relatively new run-
ners gather a lot of excitement in the beginning of the year, it is up to the veterans to carry the team in crucial times. 
Seniors Taylor Tubbs, Car-
los Miranda and Mac Reynolds, who all had top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nishes at the Covered Bridge, must con-tinue to perform well in order for Florida to have a shot at the NCAA Championships later this year.
“Get to the nationals,” Tubbs 
said. “That’ll be the number one goal.”
@SkylerLebron 
slebron@alligator.org Freshman looking to 
jumpstart UF runners 
Pascoe is from AustraliaCROSS COUNTRYBy Matt Brannon
Sports Writer 
Week 1 of the NFL season has 
had comebacks, close calls and a 
combination of former Florida play-ers making highlight plays, but Flor-ida’s defensive alumni have stood 
out. Here’s how they fared during 
Week 1 of the NFL season.
Rookies debut:
Three Florida defenders got their 
ﬁ  rst taste of regular-season NFL 
action over the 
weekend. 
Tampa Bay 
ﬁ  rst-round pick Vernon Harg-reaves started against Atlanta in a win on Sunday and recorded his 
ﬁ  rst two tackles. 
But the cornerback’s youth 
showed when Hargreaves got beat by Falcons receiver Mohamed Sanu for a 59-yard gain early in the game. 
“There’s no substitute for game 
play and getting on the ﬁ  eld, and for me, there was a lot of messing up,” Hargreaves told the Tampa Bay Times. “But I learned from it. I needed this game to get my feet wet 
and get started.”
Defensive end Dante Fowler Jr. 
also made his NFL debut Sunday 
after missing the entire 2015 with a torn ACL sustained on his ﬁ  rst day of minicamp. 
On Green Bay’s ﬁ  rst play, Fowl-
er stuffed running back Eddie Lacy for a 2-yard loss. 
He ﬁ  nished with two solo tack-
les and three tackles total. 
Rookie linebacker Antonio Mor-
rison recorded his ﬁ  rst career tackle on Detroit tight end Eric Ebron. The Lions went on to upset Mor-
rison and the Colts in Indianapolis, 
though, 39-35.
Old heads:
A pair of defensive veterans 
helped their teams edge out victo-
ries in Week 1. 
Reggie Nelson’s teammates vot-
ed him one of four team captains despite him signing with Oakland in April. 
In his ﬁ  rst game for the Raiders, 
Nelson led the defense with seven 
solo tackles on what was a long day 
for the Oakland secondary. 
New Orleans threw for 423 
yards, including a franchise-record 98-yard touchdown toss to receiver Brandin Cooks after beating his defender and outracing the safety, Nelson, down the left sideline.
The Raiders would still walk 
away with the win thanks to a gutsy, do-or-die two-point-conversion call by Jack Del Rio, head coach and father of Gators’ quarterback Luke Del Rio. 
Like Nelson, Cincinnati’s Carlos 
Dunlap helped seal a one-point win. 
The former Florida defensive 
lineman totaled ﬁ  ve tackles with a pair of pass deﬂ  ections against the Jets on Sunday. 
Special teams:
Two former Gators played a big part on special teams Sunday. 
BCS champion and Bears receiv-
er Deonte Thompson returned ﬁ  ve 
kickoffs for 103 yards, the longest being a 26-yarder. 
Philadelphia kicker Caleb Sturgis 
missed his ﬁ  rst kick from 46 yards on Sunday but bounced back with a 22-yard ﬁ  eld goal on the next drive and a 38-yarder to close the half. 
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org 
16   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2016
HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales Intern
Resume builder
Personalized classroom trainingFirst-hand sales experienceImprove communication skillsMinimum 10-hour work week
Email resume for internship to 
intern@alligator.orgSales Representative
Gain sales experience
Learn prospecting skillsImprove communication skillsFlexible scheduleNo weekendsEmail resume for sales rep position 
to Shaun O’Connor at 
soconnor@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Fal/l.end 2016
*Must be enrolled in fall classes 
at UF or Santa Fe to apply
 Gators in the NFL: Hargeaves has learning moment
Fowler Jr.
The Associated Press
Atlanta Falcons wide receiver Mohamed Sanu (12) slips past 
T ampa By Buccaneers cornerback Vernon Hargreaves (28) during 
the second half of T ampa Bay’s 31-24 win on Sept. 11 in Atlanta.
He allowed a 59-yard catch