We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 47 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016
Florida plays exhibition game 
tonight
John Egbunu and the Gators face Eckerd 
College in Jacksonville, pg. 13
Street artists discuss cultural impact of murals
It was to celebrate the second season of Gainesville’s 352walls project, pg. 8
UF student sells science-inspired jewelry
Her business continues to grow, pg. 9Early voting continues
See the numbers, pg. 3
CAMPUS
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
A crowd of about 500 people 
ﬁ  lled the Reitz Union Rion Ball-
room Tuesday to hear two prospec-tive Florida state senators face off to represent Alachua County.
During the debate, organized 
by Accent Speakers Bureau and UF External Affairs, candidates Rod Smith, a Democrat, and Keith Per-ry, a Republican, discussed campus carry, student loan debt and medi-cal marijuana.
Although the two disagreed on 
most topics, they did not attack each other, which offered a stark contrast from the U.S. presidential debates, said UF External Affairs chairman Jason Richards.
“I’m very happy with how it 
went,” he said. “It’s important for students to hear about policy.”
Regarding concealed carry of 
weapons on college campuses, the candidates held drastically different views, with Perry arguing students should be able to bring their legally acquired concealed weapons to campus.
The crowd cheered after Smith 
disagreed. He argued that allow-ing guns on campus would make active-shooter situations much 
more difﬁ  cult for police to handle, 
as they may not know who the shooter really is.
During the most contentious 
discussion of the evening, regard-
ing the environment, Perry accused 
Smith of sponsoring a bill that taxed environmental cleanup and services, while Perry was invest-
ing in restoring the springs. When 
asked to reply, Smith said that he 
“couldn’t wait.” He then went on to defend his own record, alleging Perry promoted fracking in Florida. 
Both strongly denied the attacks 
against them. Florida Senate candidates 
debate campus carry, debt
Grace King / Alligator Staff
From left: The two District 8 Florida Senate candidates, former State Sen. Rod Smith and State Rep. 
Keith Perry, took the stage at the Reitz Union on Tuesday night. The debate was hosted by Accent Speakers Bureau and moderated by attorney Justin Sayﬁ  e.
WHILE STUDENTS WAIT, THEY 
CAN EAT PIZZA AND TAKE 
PICTURES WITH CUTOUTS OF 
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
UF will help students get to the polls be-
fore Election Day. 
In collaboration with two nonparti-
san organizations, The Andrew Goodman 
Foundation’s Vote Everywhere ambassa-dors and the Bob Graham Center for Public Service, UF will pick up students on the Reitz Union Breezeway and take them to 
the Supervisor of Elections Ofﬁ  ce, located 
at 515 N. Main St., on Nov. 2  from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.  
Shelby Taylor, the communications di-
rector for the Graham Center, said pizza will be provided for students while they wait for shuttles. There will also be games, door prizes and cardboard cutouts of presi-dential candidates Hillary Clinton and Don-ald Trump to take pictures with. 
“We’re really pleased that this is some-
thing that the university is getting behind,” Taylor said. “We want to make sure that 
students of all political afﬁ  liations are able 
to make their way to the polls.”
Sarah Tenbarge, 20, said she plans to 
vote early this year. 
“Getting to the polls on Election Day re-
ally stresses me out,” the UF English ju-nior said. “As a student, sometimes I don’t know my schedule until the day before. Planning a time when I can go and make 
time for it makes me feel more relaxed.”
Tenbarge said she wants other students 
to vote early and thinks it’s the best way to 
ﬁ  nd a time that works best for them.
“Take advantage of it,” Tenbarge said. 
“I think it’s really useful for students who have such crazy schedules.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org  UF to offer students rides, 
pizza for early voting
By Ardyst Zigler
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students at Inﬁ  nity Hall are getting free 
laundry for testing out a new app that tracks 
the machines’ availability.
Earlier this month, students at Inﬁ  n-
ity Hall started using Washlava, an app through which students can pay for laun-dry, see which units are available, reserve washers and dryers and see if machines are functional, said Jamie Sewell, the app’s chief marketing ofﬁ  cer. 
Residents are receiving free laundry for 
the rest of the Fall semester in exchange for their feedback, she said. According to sta-tistics from the app, more than 1,000 wash and dry cycles have been completed so far. 
Controllers placed inside of the machines 
give the company statistics on how often students are doing laundry, Sewell said. Sunday nights are the most popular time.
Lights on the back of each washer and 
dryer indicate whether the unit is available, she said. A blue light means the washer is 
reserved, a green light indicates the washer 
is open and a red light means the washer 
is in use. 
Students can keep track of the machines 
on their Apple and Android phones, she said. The Tampa-based startup company 
hopes to expand the app to all UF residence 
halls in the future.
Washlava is trying to raise about $3 mil-
lion for its ﬁ  rst round of funding, common-ly known as series A funding, in order to 
expand, she said. The company has raised 
$1.8 million so far, she said.
Inﬁ  nity Hall is the ﬁ  rst place to test the 
app, Sewell said. 
“It’s been positive feedback, but it’s also 
been good information for us to learn about things we should consider doing differently 
later,” she said. 
Inﬁ  nity Hall is tailored to entrepreneurial 
students, so it is ﬁ  tting for the beta testing, she said.  Inﬁ  nity Hall students test 
new laundry availability appSEE ACCENT,  PAGE 4
SEE APP,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Sustainable UF for the 2016 
Sustainable Transportation 
FairJoin Sustainable UF for the 2016 Sustainable Transportation Fair 
today from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
on the northeast corner of the Reitz Union North Lawn behind the Hub and Marston Science Library. Come out to learn more about the sustainable transpor-tation options on campus and in the community through in-teractive tabling activities, an 
electric vehicle exhibit, a live 
survey tent, free bike repair, helmet giveaways and more. Gator Gears Student Bike Rental Program will also be offering bike rentals at the event for the remainder of the semester for just $20. The event is free and open to all UF staff, faculty and 
students. For more information, 
visit sustainable.ufl.edu/sustain-able-transportation-fair or e-mail info@sustainable.ufl.edu.
‘Has integration failed in 
Florida?’Flagler College professor Michael Butler will be speaking about 
his book “Beyond Integration: 
The Black Freedom Struggle in Escambia County, Florida, 1960-1980” today at noon in Pugh Hall, Room 210, as part of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program Brown Bag series. The book is a new interpretation of the civil rights movement in 
Florida, and it places police bru-
tality, Confederate imagery and white resistance at the center of the narrative. Refreshments will be provided. More information can be found at oral.history.ufl.edu.
RUB Entertainment’s Rock ‘n’ 
TalkElvis Presley is one of the big-gest icons in music history. Since releasing his first album 60 years ago, he has left his mark on American culture in a big way. UF College of Journalism and Communications professor David Carlson will give a talk 
on Elvis and his contributions 
to rock ‘n’ roll and society. This event will take place today in the Reitz Union, Room 3320, from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. Refreshments will be served.
Sparks and APIA Photography 
Workshop
Have you ever wanted to learn 
more about working a digital single-lens reflex camera? Come join Sparks Magazine and Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs as they host a workshop all about photography. You will not only learn about using DSLR cam-eras, but you will also have the chance to practice in and around 
the meeting location. You are 
encouraged to bring your own camera, as this is a major part of the workshop. Let your creative juices flow, and learn how you can share your voice, experience and story through art. This work-shop should encourage APIA-identified individuals to enter 
submissions into this year’s an-
thology, which will explore the various taboos that are encoun-tered in their lives. Explore past volumes of anthology at apia.multicultural.ufl.edu/programs/anthology. The event will be Thursday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 2201.
RUB Entertainment presents 
Dumbledore’s Army Training CampCome out to Dumbledore’s Army Training Camp this Thursday from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom for butterbeer, a photo booth, an 
obstacle course, do-it-yourself 
charm bracelets, potions, spell writing, riddles, raffle contests and much more.
APIA Study Spot
Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs Study Spot is a time designated every Friday from 3 
p.m. to 5 p.m. at APIA Affairs in 
the Reitz Union, Room 2201, to honor noble silence for students, staff and faculty while engaging in their study. APIA’s hope is to provide a space where members of the UF community can engage in productive academic activity. The education team strives to 
support the community through 
knowledge, which includes tak-ing care of our student commu-nity members by giving them a space to focus on professional and academic education. Each Study Spot will feature a tutor who will be in the space as a re-source for any students in need. 
The tutors will range from all 
subject matters, giving students of all disciplines an opportunity to learn and grow.
GatorNights: Haunted Horror 
ReitzOn Friday, GatorNights is stir-ring up some spine-chilling fun 
at Halloween Horror Reitz. Make 
sure to arrive in your spookiest or cutest costume to win a fun prize at our costume contest. Come in to get “zombie-fied” by our special zombie makeup artist and enter our daunting maze with Gators Humans vs. Zombies. Screams are guaran-teed at the spookiest and biggest haunted house yet, covering more than half of the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom and equipped 
with terrifying special effects. 
Check out what the future has in store for you with tarot card and palm readers. Craft your own slime or unleash your cre-ative side by painting your own ceramic skull. Capture this thrill-ing night at a photo booth. Still not scared? Brace yourself for 
the 8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. show-
ing of “Don’t Breathe.” Midnight Munchies this week will be breakfast themed. GatorNights is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate and are al-lowed to bring a maximum of 
one guest to the event.
Micanopy Fall Harvest Festival
The Micanopy Fall Harvest 
Festival will take place Saturday  from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. There will be food, entertain-ment and more than 200 ven-
dors selling arts and crafts. On 
Saturday, there will be an auc-tion of donated items from ven-dors from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. For more information, email micaf-est@micanopyfallfestival.org or call 352-466-7026.
Glam Craft Show accepting ap-
plicationsGainesville’s largest indie craft show is accepting applications for its Dec. 4 event. Artists and crafters who make unique, gift-able goods are encouraged to apply. The application deadline is Sunday. Apply online at glam-craftshow.com/apply.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
HIGH  84° LOW  62°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 47
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, 
  Michael Smith, William Clewis
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
CRUISIN’ TO THE POLLS
Joelle Dorsett, an 18 year-old UF English sophomore, receives 
a ride to a polling location from the Library West parking lot on Tuesday afternoon. Her ride was provided by UF College Democrats member Christian Tirado, a UF political science and history junior. The driving program was hosted by UF College Democrats.
Lauren Rowland / Alligator Staff4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016
“When we were in Infinity Hall, 
the day after we launched, I was 
actually hearing a student talk-ing to an investor, and they were trying to raise series A (funding) also,” Sewell said. “It was kind of cool to be in an innovation center where students are at the same point that we are.”Aristotle Koukoulidis, an 
18-year-old UF biochemistry fresh-man, said he has had a positive 
experience using the app so far. 
Before the app, Infinity’s laundry 
machines used to double charge 
his card. 
“It’s definitely more convenient 
to just pay on your phone because 
you just bring your phone with you 
— you don’t need anything else,” 
Koukoulidis said.APP,  from pg. 1Infinity is first to test the app
Ardyst Zigler / Alligator 
Katie Kolb, 18, uses the Washlava app to start her laundry. Kolb, a UF exploratory freshman, said she had to use three washers to clean her gear after an ROTC field training exercise.
SENATORS ALSO 
DEBATED A FRESHMAN 
REPLACEMENT SEAT; ONE 
SENATOR OBJECTED.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Student senators showed their 
support for UF’s African American Studies program Tuesday night. 
Senate approved a resolution 
supporting the program’s request to become a department. Student Government Executive Secretary Octavious Buiey said the change would help combat declining en-rollment of black students at UF and bring more African-American faculty members to the university. 
“As a school that’s striving for 
preeminence, this is going to be something that’s very important for us to reach that step,” Buiey, the resolution’s co-author, told sena-tors. 
Sen. Wallace Mazon (Impact, District E), who also co-authored 
the resolution, said every Florida 
university except the University of 
North Florida has an African-Amer-
ican studies department. When Mazon heard about the program’s 
request, he gathered a group of 
students to encourage UF to turn it 
into a department. 
“There wasn’t any good reason 
why it shouldn’t be a department,” 
Mazon said. “Next time when they 
try to apply for departmental sta-
tus, there won’t be any reason to 
say no. I just want some sort of ac-
countability.” 
Sharon Austin, the director of 
the African American Studies pro-
gram since 2011, said the program 
has been at UF since 1969. After 
meeting with the dean of UF’s Col-
lege of Liberal Arts and Sciences for 
a change in status, the program’s 
request was denied, but Austin 
plans to request again by Spring. 
“We really do think we have 
gained the credibility as an aca-demic unit,” she said. “The sup-
port we’re getting from the stu-
dents prove that they have respect 
for us.” 
During Senate, Zachariah Chou 
(Independent, Infinity) opposed 
Kelly Hooper’s appointment as a 
replacement freshman senator. 
Chou, who beat Hooper for the 
Infinity seat, said she committed campaign violations and was not 
qualified for the seat.
Hooper outlined her goals that 
she ran on during the campaign, 
including creating safety lights at 
roundabouts for scooters. 
Several Impact Party senators 
passionately defended Hooper’s 
appointment. 
Chou abstained from voting, 
and Hooper was elected with no objections and applause from sena-
tors.
 Editor’s note: Zachariah Chou 
formerly worked as a paid photog-
rapher for the Alligator.Senate approves resolution for African American Studies program
Katelyn Newberg / Alligator Staff
Kelly Hooper addresses the Student Senate, defending her 
appointment to the freshman replacement seat and outlining her goals for the position. 
Despite the disagreements, 
both opposed Amendment 1, 
which they said would not ex-
pand solar energy in the state, 
despite claiming to do so.
They also spoke in favor of 
continued investment in public 
universities and colleges and 
expanding scholarship oppor-tunities. Perry went a few steps further than Smith, however, ar-guing that the Florida Legislature 
should help students repay their 
loans by making higher-paying jobs available.
“I assume most of you are go-ing to have jobs when you grad-uate,” Perry said. “The question is, are you going to get a job in your field that allows you to pay back your debt?”
They also found common 
ground when asked about legal-izing medical marijuana in Flori-da, an issue that will be voted on during the general election as a 
part of Amendment 2.
“It is important,” Smith said. 
“It provides relief to people, and we allow doctors to give much 
more serious drugs every day.”
Jordan Brown, an 18-year-old 
UF sustainability and the built environment freshman, said she 
attended the debate to get a bet-
ter sense of who she may vote for. At the start of the debate, she had been in favor of Smith, but she said she wound up reso-
nating with Perry’s views more 
than she first thought she did.
“Both are viable candidates 
and support bipartisanship,” she said. “Neither of them will de-
stroy Florida.”
@jawosmond
Josmond@alligator.orgACCENT,  from pg. 1They clashed over the environment, gunsTHE AMENDMENT 
WILL FUND LAND 
CONSERVATION.
By Melanie Mueller
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 100 people joined the 
former mayor of Gainesville on 
Tuesday to fundraise for the Wild Spaces and Public Places amend-ment at Swamp Head Brewery.
The initiative, which appears 
on Alachua County’s general elec-tion ballot, proposes a county-wide, eight-year sales-tax hike to fund land conservation and the improvement of public parks. If the amendment passes, residents’ sales tax would increase from 6 percent to 6.5 percent.Elizabeth Manley, a 43-year-
old general parks advocate, said the county would benefit from the 
amendment’s passing.
“We have a wonderful parks 
system already, but a lot of our fa-
cilities are aging and are really in 
need of maintenance,” she said. 
“We need to take care of what we 
have.”
If approved, the county would 
distribute the sales-tax money to municipalities to be used for public 
parks, city programming and cul-
tural and arts improvements.
In an effort to reach voters, vol-
unteers have been reaching out to local businesses to fundraise and 
educate locals about the amend-
ment. 
Since July, a pro-amendment 
political action committee has al-ready raised about $56,000, said 
Pegeen Hanrahan, a former mayor of Gainesville. She encouraged students to learn about the amend-
ment’s benefits before voting.
“UF students are very important 
in this election, because those who 
are registered in Alachua County do ... tend to vote positively on 
these types of things,” Hanrahan 
said.
Allison Albritton, a 25-year-old 
nurse at UF Health Shands Hospi-
tal, cast her vote Monday in favor 
of the initiative, opting for a mail-
in ballot. For her, it was a simple 
decision.
“I go to the parks all the time,” 
she said. “It’s another tax for eight 
years, but we have all these beauti-
ful parks in Gainesville — how do 
you think they are being paid for?”Swamp Head Brewery hosts Wild 
Spaces and Public Places fundraiser
“Both are viable candidates 
and support bipartisanship.”
Jordan Brown
UF studentWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Costume SalePersona
Costume Sale
352-372-0455
Shop Local · 201 SE 2nd Pl 
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
THEY WILL MEET TODAY 
IN PUGH HALL.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
For the second time in two 
weeks,  graduate assistants will ﬁ  ght 
for a $320 raise. 
After members of Graduate As-
sistants United and UF negotiators could not compromise over the 
union’s petition for a raise and a $100 
fee relief for graduate assistants, the two parties will meet again today in Pugh Hall, said Charles Shields, the communications chair for GAU. 
During the original meeting, the 
group also asked for a minimum sti-pend of $15,000 for half-time gradu-ate assistants, which UF’s negotia-tors previously verbally agreed to, 
he said. But UF’s chief bargainer, Bill 
Connellan, didn’t sign the proposal, instead scheduling another meeting for today in Pugh Hall, Room 160, at 3 p.m. to discuss raises. 
Shields said he doesn’t know 
what Connellan is going to offer them. Connellan declined to com-ment about the negotiation until the 
meeting. 
Shields said he is optimistic GAU 
will get a ﬂ  at raise, which gives all graduate assistants the same raise, 
as opposed to a percentage raise. Un-der a percentage raise, the amount of money each graduate assistant would receive would vary depending 
on how much each student makes. 
“We won’t discount any offer 
that they give us out of hand — any offer that they put in writing on the 
table,” he said.
The deadline to sign a proposal 
is Nov. 10, but Shields said GAU is 
prepared to push negotiation close to 
the deadline if needed. 
“I think both sides are getting 
antsy and feeling like it may be time 
to go ahead seal the deal before we hit the deadline,” Shields said. 
John Hames, the chief bargainer 
for GAU, said the frustrating part of the negotiation is the university’s claim that it can’t afford to give the same raise as last year, a $430 raise 
and $50 in fee reliefs, according to 
Alligator archives. But GAU is will-ing to work within those parameters. 
“We still are cautiously optimis-
tic that the university will move and that we can bring home a raise for 
graduate assistants that is meaning-
ful,” he said.  
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  GAU, UF to continue 
bargaining UF graduate 
assistant raises
By Mercedes Leguizamon
Alligator Contributing Writer 
At a panel Tuesday night, Steph-
anie Marchman told about 40 Levin 
College of Law students how an-other attorney taunted her when she went on maternity leave.
During the panel discussion, 
Gender Bias and the Glass Ceiling, Marchman, a senior assistant city attorney, members of the Law As-sociation for Women and UF law students discussed gender inequali-ties in the legal profession, including 
dress code, wage gaps and balanc-
ing family and work life.
In 2015, a gender-bias survey led 
by the Young Lawyers Division of The Florida Bar found that about 43 percent of women in Florida had ex-perienced gender bias in their work-places. 
Cara Powell, the president of the 
Law of Association for Women and a UF law student, said after seeing 
the survey, she wanted to bring up 
the issue with her peers. 
“We became aware that it was 
something that needed to be dis-cussed, and we wanted to do it in a meaningful way,” Powell said.
One of the ﬁ  ve panelists men-
tioned that her ﬁ  rm once held a wet T-shirt contest in the late 1980s. 
Powell said she knew a woman who 
had been intentionally left out of coworkers’ “bonding experiences” simply because they were not meant for women, such as golﬁ  ng or a night at the strip club.
As a third-year law student, Pow-
ell said the college has consistently remained about 50 percent male and 50 percent female since her ﬁ  rst year.
“It’s the most diverse class that 
UF Law has ever had, so I deﬁ  nitely think there have been steps taken to ensure that women are a prevalent presence on campus,” Powell said.
Aaron Badida, a ﬁ  rst-year UF law 
student, said while the college may be split in terms of gender enroll-ment, the law ofﬁ  ces that students work in after graduation may not be as diverse.
“That’s not the reality,” the 
22-year-old said.
Badida said he attended the event 
because he wanted to learn about the challenges female lawyers face. 
Badida said he could have lis-
tened to the panelists talk for hours 
longer, emphasizing that it is impor-
tant to raise awareness of what the status quo is because a lot of people don’t know.
“As a male, and in particular a 
white male, I think it’s important to be able to understand where those gaps in representation are and what we can afﬁ  rmatively do to change 
that,” Badida said. L aw students discuss 
ﬁ  eld’s gender inequalityThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
The power of forgiveness and being honest
Becoming an adult in college is a 
more emotional experience than we are able to appreciate. Between due 
dates, job applications, extracurricu-
lar activities, laundry and studying, 
being a part of university life seems quite stressful. 
Miraculously and mysteriously, we survive. 
This milestone of our life is unique, and 
our experiences should be shared in order to inspire others. 
As a senior, I am now able to appreciate the 
struggles of college. It has been complicated, and I wish someone had told me at the beginning how hard it was going to be, how much it will make me grow and mature.
Every time I get the opportunity to share my school 
experiences with my younger sisters, I make sure to tell 
them the truth. Raw honesty has allowed me to bond with my siblings, get to know them as individuals and create a real space of sharing. 
Recently, one of my sisters told me she wanted to 
become a scientist because she doesn’t want to become “nobody.” This statement shocked me and made me re-alize how society has implanted this idea in most of us. 
From a personal perspective, I told her about my ex-
periences in high school and how the same pressure was put on me. Looking at her reaction made me ap-preciate how being myself made my siblings realize that yes, the struggle is real, but it is not that bad.
Personally, it is hard to understand why this idea of 
“mistakes are not allowed” became part of mainstream culture. 
Sadly, this idealistic way of thinking is hindering our 
progress. By removing stigmas and stereotypes of “per-
fection,” we will be able to honestly reach out to young 
people and really aid them. How many times were you disappointed 
after you got to know someone you really admired? Imagine your perception of those 
people if they would have been honest about 
their lives from their start.
Take some time and weigh the conse-
quences of being open, honest and real about 
your life decisions. You will ﬁ  nd out it is not 
that bad. You will become more accepting of your life and be able to let go of those feeling 
of anxiety. 
Life is a short experience that we need to enjoy as 
much as possible. We can lose a lot of time and ef-fort plaguing our thoughts with feelings of remorse and guilt. 
This is not a normal behavior encoded in our genes. 
It is a learned trait that we have imposed from genera-tion to generation. The only way to stop the abuse is to embrace the compassion inside of us. 
Start by forgiving and forgetting those memories and 
ideas that produce pain and anxiety, and you will be able to feel a sense of inner peace. 
More powerful than meditation or any other relaxing 
stimulus, self-awareness and acceptance can unlock the 
most beautiful, creative and special parts of our con-
sciousness and mind.
Andrea Taboada is a UF microbiology senior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.On Gov. Scott’s 
voter-registration 
decision
With Hurricane Matthew still fresh in our minds, we 
need to talk about our governor’s behavior regarding the hurricane.
Yes, it was perfectly rational for him to urge 1.5 
million Florida residents to evacuate the eastern side 
of the state. At the time, Hurricane Matthew was a Category 4 hurricane, with winds upward of 140 mph. Quite simply, it was extremely responsible and necessarily cautious of him to urge those Floridians to seek shelter somewhere else. After all was said and done, Hurricane Matthew claimed the lives of 1,384 people. It was a protocol that many of us should be grateful he followed.
Florida’s voter-registration deadline was supposed to expire 
amid Hurricane Matthew. Like people in any other state, many 
Floridians register to vote at the last available moment. As a 
university, many of us students know what it’s like to wait for the last moment to do something. 
Naturally, any rational governor would extend the registra-
tion deadline, thereby giving his or her constituents ample time to return to their homes after the hurricane, get their lives back together amid ﬂ  ooding and property damage and then regis-ter to vote in this pivotal upcoming election. But we don’t get that privilege, dear reader. Instead, Gov. Rick Scott felt perfectly 
content not giving his constituents more time to register, saying, 
“Everybody has had a lot of time to register.”
While some people may ﬁ  nd that sound, it’s fundamentally 
bad logic. It’s akin to uttering “Well, because you don’t have anything interesting to say, you should be ﬁ  ne with us repeal-ing the First Amendment.” The fact of the matter is that many Floridians who were planning to register on those dates became unable to do so because of an unpreventable natural disaster. To deny them the ability to vote because of that is a disgusting 
act.
Luckily, U.S. District Judge Mark Walker forced Scott to ex-
tend the deadline. In his rebuke, he wrote, “This case pits the 
fundamental right to vote against administrative convenience.” While we agree with this refutation, it highlights the wrong rea-son why Scott refused to extend the deadline in the ﬁ  rst place: his own laziness. Although this is undeniable, we all know the real reason Scott was apprehensive to move the deadline back. He’s one of the few foolish Republicans left supporting Donald 
Trump, and Florida, a vital swing state in the presidential elec-
tion, is more than likely going blue in November. Extending the deadline would allow those who don’t have a lot of extra time — because they’re busy doing other things like working mul-tiple jobs and taking care of their children — to register to vote.
Obviously people were planning to register to vote on days 
when the hurricane was expected to hit. As students, I’m sure many of us had exams and assignments pushed back because of the weather instead of being expected to walk in hurricane 
weather to turn in our homework.
Thankfully, more than 108,000 Florida residents registered 
to vote during the extension alone. This is enough to change 
an election. In 2012, President Obama won Florida by 74,000 votes out of more than 8 million votes cast. Right now, Sen. Marco Rubio’s U.S. Senate seat, which is contested by Rep. Pat-rick Murphy, is a dead heat. Let’s dispel the ﬁ  ction that Scott’s choice not to extend the deadline wasn’t political. Instead, stick it to him by voting our conscience Nov. 8.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Andrea 
T aboada
opinions@alligator.org
“Our experiences should 
be shared in order to inspire 
others.”WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
I remember my very ﬁ  rst tattoo — a crude 
rendition of the word “baby” on my right bicep. I got this done in my senior year of high school. My buddy Cameron had been tattooing a lot of our friends ever 
since he bought some sewing needles and In-dia ink. I kept seeing people I knew showing off their small new tats, usually small doodles of things like birds, clouds or crescent moons. After seeing that none of them got infected, I decided it was high time for my own.
Cameron’s bedroom had poor ventilation 
and a ﬂ  oor of solid concrete; he tore out the carpeting that had been infused with vomit from some drunken night months ago. I sat on the hard ﬂ  oor and coughed on thick white smoke from his dirty plastic water-bottle bong. Then it was time to get started. He put on the Pixies’ “Doolittle” and sat down next to me.
“What do you want?”I had the idea of getting the word “baby” 
tattooed on me since I had ﬁ  rst heard Jim Croce’s “Rapid Roy,” a song about a vagabond driving an old ’57 Chev-rolet around America, running from police in different states, speeding down lonesome highway strips and making fast cash off of drag rac-ing. I really admired this character, who, as revealed in the chorus of the song, “got a tattoo on his arm that say ‘baby.’”
I was stoned and getting my arm 
stabbed by an old sewing needle dipped in black ink. Cameron sweat and worked me-thodically without a stencil. After an hour the tattoo was complete, a crummy rendition of the word in sloppy lettering.
I did a good job of keeping the tattoo hid-
den from my parents for about a year. I was sure to only wear T-shirts that covered my bi-cep and not to walk around the house shirtless anymore. It wasn’t until I got my second and third stick-and-poke tattoos (a heart around “baby” and a lightning bolt on the inside of my other bicep) that I decided it was pointless to keep them hid-den. I showed my parents the tat-toos, and they were understand-ably upset.
My dad is still in denial about 
the tattoos. Every time I wear something around him that re-veals my tattoos, he says some-thing like “I didn’t know you had tattoos.” This has happened sev-
eral times since ﬁ  rst revealing the tattoos.
My mom wanted to know why I chose to 
get the tattoos I did, not why I got tattoos in the ﬁ  rst place. Moreover, why did I let my friends do it? Why didn’t I go to a profes-sional? Why didn’t I get tattoos with deeper meanings than song references and notebook doodles?
To be honest, I don’t know exactly why 
I like stick-and-poke tattoos. Maybe I’m just cheap and refuse to pay for something my friends can do in their bedrooms. Maybe it’s because I enjoy the intimate pain involved with a close friend jamming a thin needle repeatedly into my ﬂ  esh. Maybe I just think they’re more unique than the run-of-the-mill koi ﬁ  sh, dragon and tribal lettering that I see on many of my peers. I am often asked if I think I will regret these tattoos later in life. Hell, I already regret a few of them. The “bad boy blues” tattoo my girlfriend gave me be-came infected within a week, and it’s now faded as a result. The Smiths’ song title “Still Ill” jammed into my rib cage done by my friend Anna put me through a pain I never thought my body was capable of handling. All for some song lyrics I will probably grow tired of in a year or so.
But these tattoos serve as reminders of my 
fun and reckless youth. Each tattoo comes with a vivid memory of a backseat, a hot bedroom, a vacant parking lot. These tattoos represent a portion of my life I cannot deny.
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Last Wednesday, the editorial board of the Alligator wrote a column titled “Re-ligious self-reﬂ  ection is necessary,” in which it took the instance of a British Muslim school educating their girls that 
to be beaten by one’s spouse is permissible as a reminder that we all must reﬂ  ect on the nature of religion. Mr. Editorial, as I will call this unnamed author, said we must recog-nize that “The Bible, the Torah, the Quran … are the words of the gods you believe in, but they were written by man, and man’s way of thinking has come a long way since those ini-tial writings.” He consequently reminded us the books and the religions they have created are inherently ﬂ  awed, and we must not sim-ply “cherry-pick the pieces that you like and ignore the pieces that you don’t like.” Thus, the example from the British Muslim school is a classic case of a primitive religion that needs reform and needs to come to a more rational understanding of the social context in which their religion started.
I think Mr. Editorial raises valid points about religion, especially the dif-ﬁ  culty of reconciling speciﬁ  c pas-sages in the Bible and the Quran with the concept of an all-loving god. But as a Christian, I cannot accept his argument that religion is an inherently ﬂ  awed, man-made construct with values and teach-ings that are relevant only to the times they were born out of. I think Mr. Editorial operates under some huge and contentious assumptions — assumptions I wish to ﬂ  esh out in the next couple weeks.
The ﬁ  rst and largest assumption Mr. Edi-
torial makes, and with which he judges the religions of the world, is the secular assump-tion that either there is no god or at least we cannot know which god truly exists. This is the intellectual motivation behind his claim that the major religious books of the world are man-made, devoid of any divine inﬂ  u-ence. The Bible, the Quran or the Torah can only be man-made if they are not true, and the only path to falsity in religious terms is if the god being wor-shipped does not exist.
Now the issue I want to raise is 
that Mr. Editorial steps into the re-ligious arena proudly donning his secular emblems of human reason and moral progress without prov-ing ﬁ  rst why his emblem is the correct one. In other words, in Mr. Editorial’s criticisms of religion, he 
smuggles his own deep assumptions about reality and life without offering any sound reasons as to why his worldview is the cor-rect one. And yet, he feels it his moral duty to take the plank out of the religious eye by calling them to more self-reﬂ  ection without ﬁ  rst reﬂ  ecting on the validity of his own secu-larism.
The irony is that the secular assumptions 
— this life is all there is, human reason and moral progress are all we need to thrive and God either does not exist or is far away — seem to run counter to the deepest intuitions of human experience, and Mr. Editorial, in fact, admits this. He cites rather ﬂ  ippantly that we have created 3,000+ gods through-out history as a proof against there being any one true god to believe in. But I take this as a conﬁ  rmation, or at least a signiﬁ  cant remind-er, that humans have always and will always interpret this world as not being all there is, and that God or gods is the ultimate source of reality. Why would an overwhelming major-ity of human beings throughout time and in most cultures form these perceptions if they were not true? Would we have hunger if food did not exist, or sexual desire if sex did not exist? Sadly, Mr. Editorial and secularism in general understand these perceptions to be il-lusory.
The question, then, is not whether reli-
gions ought to become more secular, but if secularism ought to convert, and to which religion. See part two next week.
Scott Stinson is a UF English and phi-
losophy sophomore. His column appears on Wednesdays.
There's meaning and memories in tattoos, despite some pain and regret
Secular self-reﬂ  ection is necessary, especially when discussing literatureColumn
ColumnJeremy Haas
opinions@alligator.org
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016
By Ismelda Alvarez 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A team of UF researchers is 
trying to find out how to keep a 
pest from Cuba out of the U.S.
Researchers with the UF 
Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences recently came back from their first trip to Cuba to study a wood-boring pest species called the ambrosia beetle, a pest that can kill trees, said Damian Adams, a UF professor of natural resource economics and policy and the study’s principal investigator. 
The beetle grows a particular 
kind of fungus on a tree, and depending on the tree’s reaction to it, that tree can die, he said. The beetle spread significantly from 2002 to 2014 and started to wipe out redbay trees, an important part of the Everglades ecosystem.
“They are called ambrosia 
beetles because they grow this particular type of fungus that their young actually feed on that has a particular color to it,” Adams said. “It’s almost bluish-purplish, and that’s where the word ambrosia comes from.”
During a one-year study funded 
by a $228,000 grant from the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture, the 
researchers will learn to identify 
the ambrosia beetle and estimate 
the potential economic impact 
of the pest in the U.S., he said. 
Adams said he is working with 
several others to conduct the 
study.
During the group’s first trip 
to Cuba this month, the UF researchers held a workshop with 
Cuban scientists to teach them how to identify the species, he said. 
“There is probably no better 
place in the entire U.S. that has the capacity, the manpower and resources and skill set to address this issue,” Adams said of UF. 
Paloma Carton De Grammont, 
Adams’ assistant, is coordinating 
the study and researching Cuban 
policies on pest control. As a 
Spanish speaker, she went to 
Cuba to help communicate with 
the Cuban scientists. 
“This is going to open the door 
for more research,” she said.UF researchers study beetles in Cuba to protect local wildlife
Courtesy to the Alligator
Researchers, technicians and pest-identifiers from Cuban federal and provincial institutions pose for a 
picture with UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences researchers during a workshop on bark and ambrosia beetles. The workshop was led by researcher Jiri Hulcr and doctoral student Demian Gomez, both in the UF School of Forest Resources and Conservation.
IT WAS TO CELEBRATE 
THE SECOND SEASON 
OF GAINESVILLE’S 
352WALLS PROJECT.
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
A panel of four street artists 
from across the country spoke 
to a crowd of about 20 people 
Tuesday at the Civic Media 
Center, discussing how their murals have changed the fab-rics of urban communities.
The event was held to cel-
ebrate the launch of the sec-ond season of 352walls, a Gainesville street-art program that has turned downtown 
Gainesville into an urban can-
vas.
The panel, which featured 
artists from Baltimore, Atlan-
ta and parts of New Jersey,  
included Turbado Marabou, 
who has helped paint murals in Chicago, Gainesville and Russia.
Marabou said the most im-
portant part of creating street art is listening to the commu-nity that surrounds it.
“You have to be the soci-
ologist,” he said. “You have be the anthropologist.”During his career, he has 
been hired by cities to paint murals, some 10 stories tall, that he said beautified the city 
and instilled a sense of pride 
in its residents. He said he hopes 352walls, which he has worked for in the past, will do the same for downtown 
Gainesville.
He told the story of a mu-
ral he helped paint in Chicago 
that depicted a strong woman 
breaking through walls. It was 
painted on a facility for victims of domestic violence.
“It became a part of their 
life,” he said. “That mural 
gave them some type of inspi-
ration.”
Rachel Sommer, a 22-year-
old Gainesville artist, came 
to hear the panelists speak 
but said she was interested in learning about how projects like 352walls can end up doing more harm than good.
She said the addition of 
such massive and eye-catching works of art attract wealthier people to these areas, which 
can then raise the cost of living 
and push residents from their communities.
“Street art contributes to 
that gentrification,” she said.Street artists discuss 
cultural impact of their murals
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
An 86-year-old man with Al-
zheimer’s disease was killed early 
Tuesday morning after a motorist struck him downtown.
At about 3:25 a.m. Tuesday, 
multiple Gainesville Police units ar-rived to the scene of the accident after the driver of a black Mazda called, saying she hit the man, Na-than Gambles, at the intersection of West University Avenue and Main Street, according to a media release.
The first GPD officer to arrive 
checked on the man, found he was 
not breathing and started perform-
ing CPR, according to the release. 
The intersection was locked 
down, and Alachua County Fire Rescue Services took the man to UF Health Shands Hospital, where he later died from his injuries, accord-ing to the release.
A preliminary investigation 
found that the motorist was headed westbound on University Avenue when Gambles walked onto the road and directly into the car’s path, according to the release.
About a half an hour before the 
driver reported the crash, Gambles was reported missing by his family, and police were called to the 1300 block of NE Third Ave. to look for him, according to the release. 
A GPD traffic-homicide investi-
gation is now underway, accord-ing to the release. No charges have been pressed. 
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgAlzheimer’s patient struck by car, diesEmma Green / Alligator Staff
JUMP IN THE LINE
From left: During a Dance Marathon fundraiser called Moralloween, Erick Esquerete, a 20-year-old UF 
applied physiology and kinesiology junior dressed as a zebra, performs a line dance with Cassidy Chason, a 21-year-old UF nutritional science senior dressed as a “possessed” Pink Lady from “Grease. ” The line dance was a collection of classic songs and references to “SpongeBob Squarepants” and viral videos. The event raised more than $1,000 for Dance Marathon.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
CAMPUS
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
When Erin Winick was young-
er, she used to sit at her sewing 
machine and create her own Hal-
loween costumes. 
As a senior at UF, she decided 
she wanted to become an engi-
neer after taking Design and Man-
ufacturing Lab, which showed  
 her how creative engineering can 
be. 
“I really saw that, as an engi-
neer, you can turn your ideas into reality,” Winick said.
Last year, Winick, a UF me-
chanical engineering senior, de-
cided to combine her passion for 
science and craft to establish Sci Chic, a company that creates 3-D-printed jewelry inspired by scien-tific concepts. On Thursday, she’s heading to Philadelphia to speak 
at the Society of Women Engi-
neers Annual Conference about her company’s outreach in the community. 
“Our goal is to be able to spark 
everyday conversations about science, as well as help educate, especially kids,” the 22-year-old said.Initially, Winick launched the 
line on Etsy, but after seeing the 
high demand, she opened her own 
e-commerce page. The company has been featured on CNNMoney and on science websites.
Winick’s products can be 
found in five retail locations, in-cluding the Samuel P. Harn Mu-seum of Art. At UF Hillel, her sci-ence-themed jewelry has a place 
to grow. 
A company called The Selling 
Factory aims to help startup com-
panies market their products, said Bradley Gamble, the company’s 
CEO.
When Gamble heard about Sci 
Chic two months ago, he reached 
out to Winick in hopes of creating 
a partnership. 
“It’s a genius idea,” Gamble 
said. “It is marrying fashion with 
science and putting it in a way that allows people to represent 
themselves and be proud of the 
fact — especially young people — proud of the fact that they love science.”
At home, Winnick’s 3-D print-
ers are constantly running. She said she outsources a third ma-chine to create metal pieces be-cause it’s too big to fit in her 
apartment.
As a student and a business 
owner, Winick said she’s found 
the rhythm in balancing school-
work with her company.
“I always tell people if they’re 
starting a company in school, you 
have to be able to learn when to put what first,” Winick said. “You 
figure out how to work it out. It 
becomes a practice you get fairly good at.”
Winick’s work does not go un-
appreciated. When she launched new pieces focused on meteorol-ogy, meteorologists around the country reached out to her to ex-press their excitement.
Summer Ash, the director of 
outreach for the Columbia Uni-versity Department of Astronomy and the founder of STARtorialist, said she sees Winick’s pieces as a 
form of self-expression. 
“The whole idea of a scientist, 
the stereotype often is that they’re 
quiet, they keep to themselves, 
they’re introverts,” Ash said. “So 
it was awesome to just show that scientists can express themselves through fashion.”
For Winick, one of the most 
important aspects of Sci Chic is the work it does with children. The bright colors and designs of the jewelry, coupled with educa-
tional material found on the web-
site, aims to spread a love of sci-ence to children.
Sara Gonzalez, a librarian at 
the Marston Science Library, has 
seen firsthand how Sci Chic can 
impact young girls. Her 7- and 13-year-old daughters got to mod-el some of the jewelry.
“Especially for kids, it’s a  
way to make them feel connect-ed to science,” Gonzalez said. “I love what Erin’s doing with pack-aging the jewelry with science 
education. So not only do they 
like what they’re wearing, but they start to understand what it’s about.”
Winick said she hopes more 
people begin to look at science as a creative opportunity.
“Science is more creative than 
people imagine,” Winick said. 
“We really need artistic people 
and problem-solvers, because en-gineering is really about problem solving. It’s a really artistic field 
that people that have those skills 
will do really well.”With science-inspired  jewelry, a UF student’s business grows
Courtesy to the Alligator
Erin Winick, 22, creates jewelry using a 3-D printer. The UF mechanical engineering senior launched 
her business, Sci Chic, about a year ago, and it now has a physical space at UF Hillel.
She’ll be speaking at a conference about her outreachWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   11-15-16-20-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor. Like new 
BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D 
Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus 
rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-
9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    11-10-16-12-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Sublease available. Nov. 1
1 Bed/1 Bath 559 month 500 dep.
Addison Lane Apts.
321-443-0412
Back Check/Proof of Income/Application
10-26-16-4-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW
5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesNO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $1999
91 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
2002 Toyota Rav4, clean title, all papers available, smoke free, no rust, no accidents, 2.0L I4 Engine, AWD, White with Tan , 112K miles. $2900 You can get in touch with me by phone at 3177218798      10-28-5-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
2001 Toyota Tacoma
V6 4dr Double Cab 4WD , automatic, $2900, 
gasoline, 177.000 mi. . Call at 7852518737     
10-31-16-5-12
'03 Mini-Cooper S Blue+White 
73557 mi. $5900
352-219-6400      10-26-2-121998 Ford Explorer, great condition,
leather interior, must see to appreciate. 
$1,500 OBO. Call 352-281-8623    10-31-
16-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Gamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
ACROSS
1 Wander (about)
4 Fragrant bloom9 Utter disorder
14 Second person in
Eden
15 Kitchen sponge
brand
16 Full of moxie17 Like many a gray
day
18 Peanuts20 Sales meeting
aid
22 Feel crummy23 Coal __24 Most populous
continent
25 Date night
destination
28 One of a gallon’s
16
30 Like a successful
business,presumably
32 Stand against34 Northern
California city
37 Birch family tree38 Peanuts
41 Hardly fresh
42 Bit of
photography
equipment
43 Southern
California team
45 Inside
information
49 Copper source
50 Hits the road53 Albany-to-Buffalo
canal
54 Former Air
France jet
56 Geologist’s
division
57 Tops by a slight
margin
58 Peanuts62 Picnic invader63 Ready to hit the
hay
64 Invalidate65 Maiden name
preceder
66 Used up67 Pond critters68 Mexican Mrs.
DOWN
1 Gaudy trinket2 Opposed
3 Enlargement
advantage
4 Scot’s swimming
spot
5 German “I”6 Welcoming
wreath
7 Highway through
the Yukon
8 Newswoman
Roberts
9 “Erin Burnett
OutFront”channel
10 Pick up with effort11 Geographically
based trio
12 Makes trite, in a
way
13 Hoff who wrote
the “Henrietta”children’s books
19 Red “Sesame
Street” puppet
21 Light beer?25 Biceps exercise26 Not at all handy27 “Trainwreck”
director Judd
29 Pay-__-view31 Kings, e.g.33 Lumbered35 “MASH” setting:
Abbr.
36 Lopsided
38 Sci-fi fleet vessel
39 Leave no doubt
40 GI addresses
41 __-mo
44 What a
freelancer maywork on
46 Hearts, but not
minds
47 Ballpark snack48 Lipton rival
51 Lindsay of “Mean
Girls”
52 Foolish
55 Anti-
counterfeitingagts.
57 Slim swimmers58 Euro divs.59 West Coast hrs.60 Houston-to-
Dallas dir.
61 Belly
By Patti Varol©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/26/1610/26/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, October 26, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos12  ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Part time. Must love to work with kids. Free training for teaching beginner Fencing Classes. No experience required. Must have own car. Pay $15 per hour with max monthly income of $480. Send resume to kkvols@floridafencingacademy.com     10-28-16-5-14
Swimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-
time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
1. LANGUAGE: What is the mean-
ing of the Greek prefix “xeno”?
2. GEOGRAPHY: Gotland Island is 
located in what body of water?
3. MEASUREMENTS: What does a 
micron measure?
4. MOVIES: Who was the 
Oscar-winning director of the movie 
“Deer Hunter”?
5. LITERATURE: In which U.S. 
state was the writer Eudora Welty 
born?
6. MUSIC: Who wrote the song 
“Raindrops Keep Falling on My 
Head”?
7. MOVIES: What movie featured 
the line, “Hasta la vista, baby”?
8. PSYCHOLOGY: What is a fear of 
books called?
9. HISTORY: Who was the first U.S. 
astronaut to fly into space twice?
10. FOOD & DRINK: What food is 
eaten traditionally in the United King-dom on the day before Ash Wednes-day?
Answers
1. Foreigner or stranger2. Baltic Sea3. Length4. Michael Cimino5. Mississippi
6. Burt Bacharach and Hal David
7. “Terminator 2: Judgment Day”8. Bibliophobia9. Gus Grissom10. Pancakes
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 24, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 15 Services 19 Connections 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Stat of the day
According to ProFootballFocus.com, Florida cornerback Quincy Wilson has 
allowed an average QB rating of 0.4 in SEC play this season.J.C. Deacon wrapped up his 
best Fall season as Florida's men's golf coach.Read the story on pg. 14.By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Jabari Zuniga traipsed beside 
the O’Connell Center after practice Tuesday. 
His pads dangled at his side while 
the sun revealed a hulking physique that could have rivaled former NFL running back Bo Jackson’s in his prime 30 years ago.
It’s the same physique that prompted 
UF defensive lineman coach Chris Rumph to jokingly create a rule: Zuniga can’t take off his shirt around Rumph’s wife.It’s also the same physique that 
led to his teammates tabbing him the “silent assassin” and “an animal” in the weight room.
Thanks to his strength, size and 
speed, Zuniga leads Florida with five sacks halfway through the season. Jabari Zuniga quietly turning heads
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Jabari Zuniga (92)  participates in drills before Florida's 32-0 win over North T exas on Sept. 17 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Zuniga leads the Gators with five sacks this season. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
It’s not quite Halloween, but 
Gators coach Mike White already has some tricks for opposing offenses up his sleeve. 
“Coach has put in a little bit of 
zone (defense),” center John Egbunu said. 
“He just puts that as a decoy. 
We’re really not going to play zone ever. He really likes the man-on-man defense.”
Tricks aside, Florida is treating 
its fans tonight with the chance to see UF play for the first time since 
losing in March’s National Invitation 
Tournament quarterfinals. 
Florida plays Eckerd College in 
its one and only exhibition game 
tonight at 7 in Jacksonville Veterans Memorial Arena. 
White said the biggest factor in scheduling the preseason matchup was to give the team a chance to get used to the arena. 
With the O’Connell Center under 
construction until late December, 
Florida is forced to play its first two 
games — both designated home 
games — in Jacksonville Veterans Memorial Arena. 
“It’s important, just getting used 
to the rims, getting used to the court and all that,” Egbunu said. “It’s going to help us because of 
the fact that we don’t have a home floor right now.”
A home court isn’t the only thing 
UF is missing right now. Kasey Hill, 
the team’s senior point guard, didn’t 
practice Tuesday and will miss 
tonight’s exhibition with hamstring soreness, White said. 
“(Hill) has been working hard 
all summer but definitely he has to heal up,” Egbunu said. “There’s no point in him trying to play while he’s not 100 percent and end up hurting something.”
Hill shined in a team scrimmage 
on Friday, serving up eight assists 
with no turnovers and adding 13 
points on 6-for-10 shooting. 
Luckily for Florida, its roster is 
deepest at the point guard position. 
Junior guard Chris Chiozza started Florida using exhibition game tonight to evaluate playersThe redshirt freshman leads UF in sacks
COACHES HOPED THE UNUSUAL 
TRAINING WILL INCREASE THE TEAM'S 
IN-GAME PHYSICALITY. 
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Last week, the Florida Gators women’s 
basketball team trekked to Camp Blanding — an Army base in Starke, Florida.
There, the players were subjected to the wrath 
of a drill sergeant.
Organized by UF assistant coach Bill Ferrara 
and a partnership with the Women’s Basketball 
Coaches Association, Florida held a joint-practice 
session with the United States Marine Corps. 
It featured military-style physical training and 
problem-solving challenges, trials that head coach Amanda Butler believes has helped the team. 
“The leadership-reaction course really revealed 
to them, I think, some strengths in some people that maybe they hadn’t seen,” she said, “and then it also exposed some weaknesses.”
The team uses the lessons they learned at Camp 
Blanding during practice. 
Butler’s players haven't shied away from 
the physical aspect of the game, both against themselves and physically stronger competition. 
Butler said the team has placed an emphasis on 
taking charges, which, if executed properly, can force the opposing team into a turnover.
“We really value charges ” she said. 
“It’s not glamorous and flashy. It’s really a 
blue-collar type of a thing where you know you’re 
sacrificing.
“To see that as often as we do in practice against Women's 
basketball team practices with Marine Corps
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15SEE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
 
Twenty games into the 2016 
Florida volleyball season, the No. 
10 Gators are sitting comfortably 
in the Southeastern Conference standings. 
With nine games remaining 
on the SEC schedule, Florida (18-2, 8-1 SEC) is third in the conference, trailing only Kentucky and Missouri. 
UF and Missouri are the only 
remaining undefeated teams on the road, and UF is one of two SEC teams ranked, with the Wildcats currently standing at No. 22.
After a weekend in which the 
Gators didn’t drop a set, excellent play came in bunches.
Most impressive was the play 
of senior hitter Alex Holston.
“I don’t even want to think 
of Alex Holston graduating,” UF coach Mary Wise said Monday.
Holston had a strong weekend, 
starting with six kills and four block assists in a sweep of Mississippi State. 
She followed that up with 
a 15-kill performance against 
Georgia, maintaining a .536 hitting 
percentage. “She’s just having one of those 
elite-level years that you want to bottle,” Wise said, “because this 
season has gone by way too fast.”
Holston’s efficiency over the 
weekend was through the roof, as 
she became the first Florida player to gather 15 kills in 25 attempts 
while receiving no errors since Gator-great Kelly Murphy did it in 
2010, Wise said. 
But while her hitting has been 
a focal point for an offense that ranks second in the SEC in kills 
per set, her defensive capabilities 
are what set her apart.
In the two games, Holston took 
part in seven blocks, trailing only 
middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan 
for most blocks on the team.
Her ability to play sound 
defense and be a part of blocks as a hitter gives the Gators a versatile 
piece on the floor who can do 
nearly everything.
It also provides an example to 
younger players of what to do to 
affect all areas of the game.
“It’s always been our goal for 
the seniors to be playing their best 
volleyball in their final year,” Wise said. “It’s the crescendo. You’re 
trying to build for that.”
Now, Florida prepares for its two-game home stint, battling Ole 
Miss on Friday night and then LSU on Sunday afternoon.
Even with strong veteran play, Wise knows improvement never stops.
“How great teams separate 
themselves is how much better they can get from August to the end of the season,” she said. 
“Our team has embraced that.” 
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org
Holston leading Florida volleyball with veteran play
She ranks second on the Gators in kills per set
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Senior Alex Holston (3) attempts a kill during Florida’s win over Marshall on Sept. 17 in the Lemerand 
Center. “I don’t even want to think of Alex Holston graduating, ” coach Mary Wise said. 
FRESHMAN ANDY ZHANG WAS A 
SURPRISE STANDOUT.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Nine top-10 individual finishes, four top-
five team finishes, two tournament wins and 
one individual title.
These are all accolades that came during 
Florida’s best Fall season under men’s golf 
coach J.C. Deacon.
The successes culminated in the team’s play 
at the Tavistock Intercollegiate, where Florida 
posted its best score under Deacon, a 20-un-der-par performance that was 11 strokes better than second place.
The end of the Fall season also gave a good 
indication of who Florida’s main-five golfers will be moving forward: Sam Horsfield, Gor-
don Neale, Andy Zhang, Alejandro Tosti and 
Jorge Garcia, the golfers who competed at the Tavistock Intercollegiate. 
It was a successful season, so when Deacon 
walked into a postseason press conference on Monday, he immediately expressed his satis-faction.
“The guys are excited,” he said. “We played a lot of good golf ... The guys 
are getting along better than I’ve ever seen. They’re really starting to support each other and become a real team.”
Aside from the success the team experi-
enced as a whole, this season also saw the rise of freshman Andy Zhang.
Zhang, who competed in the 2012 U.S. 
Open as a 14-year-old, emerged on the scene at UF’s second tournament, the Windon Me-
morial. 
After the first two rounds, he was in conten-
tion for first place but ultimately finished sixth.However, injuries prevented Zhang from 
playing frequently. 
Earlier in the season, Deacon mentioned 
how the freshman was dealing with a wrist in-
jury that kept him from being at 100 percent, 
and it showed as he only played in two tourna-
ments this Fall.
But Deacon was quick to praise Zhang as 
the missing link this team needed. 
“I don’t want to put too much onus on 
Andy, but to me, he’s kind of the link that we were missing,” Deacon said. “He’s got the most amazing attitude you can ever ask of an 18-year-old kid. He’s always happy, every sin-
gle day. He’s smiling, he’s joking, never takes 
anything too seriously, he has a blast with the guys, and he’s as hard of a worker as you’ll ever see.”
But even with the rise of Zhang, one ques-
tion still remains.
What will happen to the team when Hors-
field turns professional?
The Spring season will be Horsfield’s last in 
a Gator uniform as he begins his professional career, which means that Florida will lose an important player. 
Horsfield earned three first place finishes as 
a freshman.
For the Gators, someone will need to step 
up, and the Spring will be a good time to show who can fill the void Horsfield’s eventual de-parture will create.
“You’ll never be able to replace a Sam Hors-
field. That’s impossible,” Deacon said. 
“We got some special kids coming in, and 
some people, I think, are going to be up to the challenge. But Sam’s a once-in-a-career player 
as a coach…He’s special.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgDeacon reflects on successful Fall campaign, looks to future
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Coach J.C. Deacon (left) and Jorge Garcia talk during the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course.
22 games last season and led the team in 
assists. He also found a rhythm in Friday’s scrimmage, going 4-for-6 on three pointers. 
“(Chiozza) is a guy who understands 
what we need to do as a team,” Egbunu said. “He’s a leader himself. He understands what pace and what intensity the team 
needs to play at.”
After Chiozza, White said sophomore 
guard KeVaughn Allen is next in line to run point. 
Allen played mainly as a shooting guard 
his freshman season, and he averaged 
more points per game than any returning 
player.
“KeVaughn Allen, he’s our shooter,” 
White said. “He’s been shooting really 
well, a high clip all Fall.”
Egbunu said improvement in Allen’s 
three-point shot spreads out defenses and makes it easier for him to operate in the paint.
The exhibition game will give the 
Gators a chance to do some evaluations of 
individual players and the culture and state 
of UF’s basketball program, White said.
“That’s where I’m most anxious,” 
White said. 
“Just seeing where we are, how far we 
have to go, where we’ve gotten better this Fall, things like that.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Along with offensive lineman Jawaan 
Taylor, he’s been one of the Gators' biggest breakout stars at an unexpected position considering the depth on UF’s defensive line. 
And despite his 6-foot-3, 245-pound 
frame, he’s just a redshirt freshman — a redshirt freshman who happens to rank among the Southeastern Conference's sack leaders. 
Zuniga said five sacks was his preseason 
goal for the entire season. He reached it in five games.
“I kinda knew I was gonna bring some 
pressure off the edge, because I knew I can pass rush,” he said. “But I didn’t really think it was gonna happen so fast.”
While Zuniga accomplished his goal, he 
knows he has more work to do. 
That starts with Saturday’s rivalry game 
against an opponent he knows well: the Georgia Bulldogs. 
Zuniga grew up in Marietta, which lies 
about two hours west of Athens, Georgia.
And despite starring at Sprayberry 
High School, UGA never offered him a scholarship. 
The Bulldogs only began recruiting 
Zuniga after he committed to Florida. 
While at Mississippi State, UF defensive 
coordinator Geoff Collins recruited Zuniga but never offered him a scholarship. That changed when Collins joined the Gators.
“As soon as he got the job at Florida, 
he called me and said I was going to be a Gator,” Zuniga said. 
One redshirt season and five games later, 
Zuniga stands inside UF’s Indoor Practice Facility talking to media members for the first time this year.
He’s helped the Gators to first-place 
status in the SEC East, a position in which UF needs only to win out in conference play to reach the SEC Championship Game. 
But Zuniga’s mind is on Jacksonville this 
weekend. 
This may mark Zuniga’s first taste of 
the Florida-Georgia rivalry, but he’s not unfamiliar with Georgia’s players. 
Zuniga is just one of a handful of UF 
players, including linebacker Jarrad Davis and defensive lineman Antonneous Clayton, who are from Georgia and have played with or against Bulldogs in high school. 
Zuniga didn’t say much about that 
aspect of the game, but his excitement was obvious. 
“I know some guys on that team,” he 
said. “It’s going to be nice.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 13Georgia 
didn't start recruiting Zuniga until he was committed to the Gators
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
John Egbunu attempts a shot during Florida's 68-62 win over LSU on Jan. 9 in the 
O'Connell Center. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Amanda Butler yells from the sideline during Florida's 85-79 win over Kentucky on Jan. 31 in the O'Connell Center. 
BASKEBALL,  from pg. 13Allen has improved his three-point shootingmen … I think it really kinda shows you, 
reveals a little bit of the spirit of this team, that they’re willing to do kinda whatever it 
takes for one another.”
That willingness is on display at any given 
practice. 
Players regularly hustle across the court 
to help a teammate back to her feet. Other 
displays of support — high-fives, chest bumps — are encouraged during Florida's preseason practices as well.
“We track how many ‘touches’ we have in 
practice every day,” Butler said. 
“And I think from our seats — from the 
coaches’ seats — when those things happen, it just makes us feel really good about what’s 
going on in practice.”
It indicates that all is going according to plan 
— that the coaching staff’s unconventional 
techniques are producing the edge from the players that they’ve been looking for.
And with their season opener drawing 
nearer, the Gators are looking to pinpoint their strengths and build on them.
“Offensive learning, defensive growth and 
those sort of things take time, but that positive energy … we’re seeing those on so much of a consistent basis," Butler said. 
"... Putting in extra time and extra work 
outside of the court is gonna help build our 
culture and build us as a cohesive unit in 
unique ways.” 
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgWOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 13The Gators play their first game in 17 days16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2016
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Devin Robinson (3) dunks during Florida’s 68-62 win over LSU on Jan. 9 in the O’Connell Center. Florida opens its season with an exhibition 
match against Eckerd College at 7 p.m. in Jacksonville.
WEDNESDAY:
• Men’s basketball 
vs. Eckerd College (exhibition) in Jacksonville, 7 p.m.
THURSDAY:
• Soccer @ Missouri, 
9 p.m., SEC Network 
FRIDAY:  
• Cross country @ SEC 
Championship, 11 a.m.
• Swimming and diving @ 
Georgia, 11 a.m., SEC Network+
• Men’s tennis @ 
Birmingham Future, qualifying Day 1
• Volleyball vs. Ole Miss, 
7 p.m., SEC Network+
SATURDAY:
• Football vs. Georgia in 
Jacksonville, 3:30 p.m., CBS
• Men’s tennis @ 
Birmingham Future, qualifying Day 2
SUNDAY: 
• Volleyball vs. LSU, noon, 
SEC NetworkTHIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS