We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 5 FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016
Florida football notebook
Updates, injuries and analysis ahead of the 
Gators’ season opener on Sept. 3, pg. 13
No charges for ACSO deputy in K-9 death
The deputy left his dog inside his patrol car, pg. 8
UF Health gets $7 million backup generator
The generator will provide emergency power to Shands, pg. 8SG Fall election registration begins
Nine parties have registered so far, pg. 5
FEATURE 
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
For most of Suzette Wannink-
hof’s life, she rode her bicycle 
alongside her brother.
She and Patrick learned how 
to ride their bikes in their home-town of Key Biscayne, Florida. As the siblings grew older and their 
bikes got bigger, they tackled hun-
dred-mile-long rides and trails in Gainesville when she visited her brother, a then-UF materials sci-
ence and engineering senior. 
It was always hard for them to 
stay quiet for long, the rides punc-
tuated with random conversations and music. She sang while Patrick, 
four years older, beatboxed down 
winding paths. 
But today, Wanninkhof rides 
without her brother. Just over a year ago, three years 
after his graduation from UF, Pat-
rick died while bicycling, hit by a 
distracted driver. And now, she and three other riders are just un-der a month into “Patrick Rides On 8,000,” a seven-month cross-
continental road trip honoring the 
UF alumnus and calling attention to the distraction that caused the accident. “We’re celebrating my broth-
er’s life,” the 22-year-old said. 
“This is the adventure that Patrick 
would’ve loved to be on.”  
•   •   •
Bicycling started with their fa-
ther, Rik Wanninkhof.
The 58-year-old still bikes to 
work every day and taught both children how to ride when they were in kindergarten. 
From there, it remained a pas-
sion for Patrick, even as he pur-
sued his engineering degree in 
Gainesville, said Debbie Wannink-hof, his mother. After graduating, he took a job in New York as a 
physics teacher.  
In New York, he would go on 
long bike rides to relieve the stress The Route: Riding 8,000 miles in memory of UF alumnus 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Warrington College of 
Business Administration will 
have a new dean in 2017. 
John Kraft will return to 
being a faculty member after 
serving as dean for more than 
25 years. Kraft, who has been teaching at UF since 1970, said he was ready to step down.  “I came to work one day 
and thought that was a good 
time to move on to something 
else,” Kraft said.
He said he plans to return 
as a professor, teaching the same courses he currently does: strategy, international business and entrepreneur-ship.
A search committee, com-
posed of deans from other colleges and other faculty members, has paired up with 
national recruiting ﬁ  rm — 
called Isaacson, Miller, Inc. — to ﬁ  nd Kraft’s successor. 
The dean of the College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences, Da-vid Richardson, is chairing the search committee. 
“John Kraft has been an 
outstanding leader for the 
Warrington College of Busi-ness, and replacing John is 
going to be challenging,” Rich-
ardson said.
The committee created a 
website for potential candi-
dates, which outlines quali-ﬁ  cations for the position, in-cluding a doctoral degree in a relevant ﬁ  eld and experience as a business dean. 
Richardson said he hopes to 
have a new dean by next Sum-mer or Fall at the latest. 
Once a new dean is found, 
he or she will take over for Kraft. 
Kraft said he hopes the next 
dean will ﬁ  nd what they want to focus on.
“I think they can ﬁ  gure it 
out themselves,” he said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org    UF launches search for new College of Business deanTHE SIX CLASSES ARE 
HELD WEEKL Y.
By Carolina Garcia
Alligator Contributing Writer
Once as a UF student and 
later as an adult, Jason Dodd’s wife was sexually assaulted in Gainesville.
Now, Dodd offers free self-
defense classes to women who want to learn how to defend themselves from any potential at-tacks.
“The number of sexual assault 
cases are staggering,” Dodd said. “My goal is to help people defend themselves in a manner that is ef-fective, efﬁ  cient and simple.”
The six weekly classes, which 
have been held at Dodd’s Glob-al Mixed Martial Arts Academy since Aug. 12, take place Fridays at 6:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. and will continue until Sept. 16, he said. 
Although classes are full, Dodd said there may be addi-tional openings in Fall and an-other set of classes is scheduled for Spring. Each hourlong session builds skills in the previous class, 
which range from counterattacks 
to escape techniques.
While Dodd has taught wom-
en’s self-defense since 2006, Dodd said he has never held six free consecutive sessions be-fore. In the past, he has held free monthly classes.
Asked why he holds classes 
for free, Dodd’s thoughts turned to his wife, who he said has been assaulted at Midtown and down-town before.
 Lucy Berman, a 21-year-old 
UF animal sciences senior, said she worries sometimes when she walks around campus at night — especially when she’s alone.
She said learning self-defense 
could help make students feel safer.
“There is no doubt that this 
class would be helpful,” Berman said. GNV man oﬀ  ers free self-
defense classes for women  SEE RIDERS,  PAGE 4
Kraft
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
AIM FOR BALANCE
Emily Houck, an 18-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology freshman, balances on her 
hands on a slackline on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday afternoon. Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  93° LOW  72°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Celebrate Krishna’s Birthday
Krishna House is organizing a cel-
ebration to mark the appearance of Lord Krishna today starting at 7 p.m. The program will have cel-ebratory activities and discussion that will be followed by a grand feast. No registration is required.Please join us at Krishna House, located at 214 NW 14th St.
GatorNights: Views from the 
SwampWelcome back, Gators. Whether you’re part of the Class of 2020 or the Class of 2017, we have events for you all year long. Tonight, get ready for Views from the Swamp. From 8 p.m. to 1 a.m., GatorNights will feature a na-tional comedian and the improv group Theatre Strike Force. Dare to try the Ballistic Swings and the Zorb Balls on North Lawn or ka-raoke at Midnight Munchies’ taco and nacho bar. Attendees must be current students to participate and are allowed to bring one guest to the event.   
Free English Classes and 
Citizenship ClassesThe Latina Women’s League is offering free English classes on Tuesdays starting this week until Nov. 8. They will be from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m at the Millhopper 
Branch public library. Anyone 
looking to improve his or her 
conversational English can at-tend. The league is also offering free citizenship classes every 
Thursday from 6 p.m. to 7:30 
p.m. from Sept. 8 to Oct. 20 at 
the library. For more information, visit latinawomensleague.org.
“Ashley’s Consent,” a play about 
sexual assaultBrought to you by the Center for Arts in Medicine and sponsored by the Dean of Students Office, 
the Office of Victim Services and 
the Student Health Care Center, 
“Ashley’s Consent” — run-ning Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday at the Newins-Ziegler 
Hall Breezeway — presents a sto-
ry of sexual assault and all that 
follows in an innovative multi-media format. After each perfor-mance, attendees can participate in a discussion and debriefing with the cast, victim advocates and peer counselors to explore the question, “What constitutes a sexual assault, and when should I intervene?” Register for tickets online at shcc.ufl.edu/ashleys-consent.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
CORRECTION
In a photo story that was pub-lished Thursday under the head-line, “More than 1,300 women receive sorority bids, celebrate,” the Alligator incorrectly identi-fied a group of women as mem-bers of Sigma Kappa Sorority. The women are members of Alpha Delta Pi Sorority.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  David Hoffman, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Michael Smith     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 5
FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
advertising@alligator.org352−376−4482
MASSACHUSETTS . . . 09 /02
KENTUCKY . . . . . . . . 09 /09
NORTH TEXAS . . . . . 09 /16 
LSU . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10/07
MISSOURI . . . . . . . . . 10/14
GEORGIA . . . . . . . . . . 10/28  
SOUTH CAROLINA . . . 11/10
PRESBYTERIAN . . . . 11/18
SEC CHAMPIONSHIP . . 12/02
CONTACT YOUR SALES REP!ADVERTISE IN  
THE ALLIGATOR’S 2016  
FOOTBALL EDITIONS15%AND
SAVEKICK OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUMRUN 5 OUT OF 9 DATES
KICK
 OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
NOW
OPEN
FREE
Delivery
3amUntil
Free Delivery Offered for UF Area• Burgers
• Panini• Pulled Pork   Sandwiches• Donuts• Homemade Cookies• Brownies• And Much More• Dine-in / Take-outGatorbaked.com
352-792-6505 • 12 SW 2nd St.
Located behind Cowboys
Hours: 3pm - 3amKristen Solorzano
Contributing Writer
UF students expressed hope for 
a safer world at a brief ceremony commemorating the Pulse victims Thursday morning.
At the 10-minute-long closing 
ceremony of the One Pulse Unity Project, four people shared their thoughts on equality. Speakers included Student Body President 
Susan Webster, the president of 
Hispanic Student Association and 
the director of Multicultural and 
Diversity Affairs.
Thursday was the last day that 
more than 300 colored linked bracelets covered the Reitz Union staircase’s rails.
The project, a tribute to the 49 
victims of a deadly shooting June 12 at Pulse nightclub in Orlando, 
has covered the staircase since July 
7. It was on display for 49 days.
Mario Ogosto, the president of  
the Hispanic Student Association, took long pauses as he told those who gathered that he has hope for a future with less tragedy.  
“I want a world where one day 
our children will not have to grieve 
in the same way that we did,” he 
said. 
As a member of the LGBTQ+ 
community, Sierra McLaughlin, a UF English sophomore, teared up during the ceremony.  
“They spoke about how the 
tragedies of the world continue on around us,” the 19-year-old 
said. “But the infallible hope we 
construct when we bind together is the ﬁ  rst step in countering the 
evils of the world.”   UF closes Reitz Union tribute to Pulse shooting victims
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
More than 110 students and faculty gathered in the atrium of the 
Reitz Union on Thursday morning to be part of the One Pulse Unity Project closing ceremony.Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF’s Multicultural & Diversity Affairs executive director Lloren Foster speaks on Thursday morning at the closing ceremony for the One Pulse Unity Project, asking the crowd for a moment of silence to honor the victims of the Pulse shooting. Foster concluded everyone present was, “here to show solidarity not only for victims, families and communities… but for each other. ”
4   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016
He was killed by a distracted driver
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Robert Livingston IV, an Ala-
chua County assistant attorney, was 
charged Wednesday with attempting to sexually assault two minors.
The arrest came after police say 
that in 2012, Livingston, 54, who is 
listed as one of three assistant attor-
neys employed by the county on the county’s website, would walk into the room of a then-16-year-old girl as she slept and touch her breasts and genitals underneath her clothes, ac-cording to a police report.
This happened five or six times 
that year, according to the report. 
When the victim would wake up, 
Livingston would stop and leave.
The victim moved away from the 
house. But as time passed and an-other girl living in the house began to mature, the victim reported Livings-ton’s abuse to po-lice in an attempt to prevent further abuse, according to the report.
She told Me-
lissa Latham Liv-ingston, Livings-ton’s wife, about the abuse. Melissa, 63, then ordered 
Robert to install locks inside the 
rooms of the girl and her younger sister, according to the report.
The locks lasted a few months 
before Livingston removed them, according to the report. Sometime in June, the girl, now 17, said someone had entered her room as she slept and began to touch her genitals un-
derneath her clothes.
At the time, the girl said, she 
thought she was dreaming but soon 
realized the incident was “too real to be fake,” according to the report. Although the girl said she was too scared to open 
her eyes, she said she believed Livingston had touched her.
Afterward, 
the girl left her 
room to find Livingston standing in 
the kitchen with his wife, according 
to the report. The only other per-son inside the house was the girl’s younger sister, who was asleep on a couch.
Scared, the girl tried leaving the 
house. When she did, however, Me-lissa bear hugged her in the home’s garage and called for her husband, 
according to the report. 
She broke free, running to the 
door, but Livingston slammed it 
closed and pushed her down. 
When she ran back to the garage, the couple cornered her. Melissa grabbed her around the neck and pushed her against a washing ma-chine, according to the report. The altercation left the girl with bruises, rug burns and scratches.
After she broke free again, Liv-
ingston held her down, but the girl’s younger sister distracted him, giving her time to run to a neighbor’s house 
and call police, according to the re-
port.
Police arrested Robert Livingston, 
charging him with two counts of at-tempted sexual battery on a victim 12 years old or greater and child abuse without great bodily harm. 
As of press time, he has been 
placed on administrative leave with 
pay, said Mark Sexton, a county 
spokesman, in a statement issued Thursday. A page on the Gainesville Area Rowing website that listed Liv-ingston as president of the nonprofit,  which is open to children as young as 12 years old, has since been re-moved.
“Mr. Livingston is at the begin-
ning of a legal process,” according 
to the statement. “The County has 
taken the appropriate step based on the information we have available to us at this time.”
Melissa was arrested and charged 
with child abuse without great bodi-ly harm. 
Both were taken to the Alachua 
County Jail. Robert was released Thursday at 3:27 p.m. on a $50,000 bond and Melissa was released Thursday at 1:46 p.m. on a $10,000 bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org
Assistant attorney charged with attempted sexual batteryCourtesy to the Alligator
Suzette Wanninkhof (left) with her brother Patrick.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Suzette and Patrick tackled hundred-mile-long rides and trails in 
Gainesville when she visited her brother, who at the time was a UF materials science and engineering senior.
Robert Livingston
 Melissa Livingston
of teaching and joined Bike and 
Build, an organization that invites cyclists to help build affordable 
housing across the country.
And it was on a Bike and Build 
trip in Oklahoma on July 30, 2015, 
when the accident happened. 
He was bicycling with others 
when the car hit him. Sarah Mor-ris, the driver, had taken her eyes off the road to check three notifi-cations on her phone. 
Patrick died on the scene. UF 
alumna Bridget Anderson, who was with him, survived with a fractured spine and damaged 
nerves.  
Debbie’s knees buckled when 
she got the phone call telling her 
there had been an accident. She started shaking when the police 
officers arrived at her door. 
“I knew that’s what it was. We 
just fell apart,” the 57-year-old 
said through tears. “The shock 
lasted for months, and we kept 
going, but we were just a mess. It was unbelievable, and it still is unbelievable.” 
A jury found Morris guilty of 
first-degree manslaughter.
Injuries from distracted driving 
have been on the rise since smart-phones were introduced, said Seth 
LaJeunesse, a research associate 
at the University of North Carolina Highway Safety Research Center. Distractions account for 10 per-cent of collisions between cyclists 
and cars, he said.
“Everyone out there is more 
likely to be distracted than they 
were 10 years ago,” he said, add-
ing that distractions can range 
from texting, reading or even eat-ing. 
The difficult part is identifying 
whether the numbers are growing 
because there’s an increase in driv-
ers being distracted on the road or because cases of distracted driv-ers are becoming easier to identify through the use of cellphone re-cords, which can tell investigators 
when a phone was accessed. 
“It’s pretty clear that distrac-
tion on the roadway among all us-
ers is going up,” LaJeunesse said. “The groups that seem to be most 
affected are groups outside of the 
vehicle.” 
But months after her brother’s 
death, Wanninkhof wanted to do 
something to honor her brother’s 
memory. Around Thanksgiving, she called Rachel Hartsell, the woman who was dating Patrick when he died.
‘Do you want to bike from Flor-
ida to Alaska?’ Suzette asked. 
It had been a hard winter for 
Hartsell and Wanninkhof’s family, 
coping with the loss, Hartsell said. 
But the thought of going on such a trip made her pause.
“In the wake of a tragedy, espe-
cially one like Patrick’s, you just 
realize how valuable life is and 
how life is worth living,” Hartsell said, “And so when Suzette called me on a cold November day and 
asked me to bike across the coun-
try — not just across the country, across North America — I was like sure, yeah.”
They decided they would start 
in Alaska and finish 8,000 miles away in Key West, Florida. And when the two women reached out to Bike and Build for additional 
riders, two strangers who never 
met Patrick volunteered. 
Greg Powell and Megan Ryan 
felt connected, they said, to Pat-rick, because a loss in the biking 
community impacts everyone. 
Powell, 28, said it could have 
been any one of them.
A week after Wanninkhof’s 
death, he said he found himself 
facing the hills of South Carolina. Doubt creeped in: Can he do it? Should he stop?
“I can’t get off my bike right now,” he told himself, “Because Patrick’s not going to do it, but he would do it. So why am I going to 
stop?”
Powell pedaled faster.  
•   •   •
Wanninkhof and the rest of the 
group plan to finish their trip in 
late February. 
The riders have raised over 
$9,000 for their trip and more than $18,000 for Patrick Wanninkhof’s Memorial Foundation, which will 
launch a nonprofit organization 
that will teach Miami residents to ride a bike. 
Along the way, they’ll stop in 
Gainesville to visit with Patrick’s 
friends at UF. At the end in Key 
West, Debbie will breathe a sigh of relief before throwing a homecom-ing celebration. She keeps an eye 
on her daughter with a GPS track-
er that gives her frequent updates of the riders’ locations. 
“Somehow, God gave me a 
sense of peace that I have now,” 
Wanninkhof said.
Debbie isn’t sure if her daugh-
ter will do another ride. But, she 
said, they will continue to bring 
attention to the moments of dis-
traction that ended her son’s life and could end another.
She will speak to high-school 
students in Miami in hopes of 
getting them to sign a promise to 
protect all cyclists, a form that she wants students to keep in their cars. 
“The five seconds that you may 
take to look down at your phone 
could change your life forever and 
the lives of all your loved ones,” she will tell them after she shares Patrick’s story. “I am hellbent on saving your life and the life of oth-ers.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org RIDERS,  from pg. 1Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Although Jamie Dubow has 
never needed to use her EpiPen, 
she came close during the Summer 
semester of her freshman year.
Dubow, 20, had just eaten din-
ner at UF’s Gator Corner Dining 
Center when she felt her airways 
begin to swell and her heart beat 
faster. Severely allergic to nuts, she panicked, thinking she was going into anaphylactic shock, a consequence of an allergic reac-
tion that can kill if left untreated.
Luckily, it was just a false 
alarm, the UF psychology junior 
said, and she didn’t have to use 
an EpiPen, an auto-injector of epi-
nephrine. But now, the cost for the shot of medicine that could save her life has skyrocketed. 
A pack of two EpiPens cost 
$100 in 2007. But since Mylan, the company that distributes the EpiPens, began hiking up its prod-ucts’ prices, a pack now costs about $600, according to a New 
York Times article.
“It gives you adrenaline, and it 
helps your body ﬁ  ght off the reac-
tion that you’re having,” Dubow 
said. “It’s deﬁ  nitely worth it to 
have, just in case of emergencies.”
The cost of EpiPen injectors is 
too high for the UF Student Health Care Center to stock, said Cath-
erine Seemann, the center’s com-
munications coordinator. Nurses can administer epinephrine from a syringe if needed.
“It’s unfortunate,” Seemann 
said. “It’s a horrible hike in the price.”
At the SHCC, the full price 
for a two-pack of the injectors is 
$796.10, she wrote in an email.
In response to criticism of its 
rising prices, Mylan said in a state-
ment it would take “immediate ac-
tion” to improve EpiPen access by offering discounts to some patients 
facing high out-of-pocket fees, and expanding a program eliminates 
fees for certain patients.
Since she was young, Dubow’s 
parents have bought her EpiPens 
every year — they expire. This 
year, it cost them about $380 for a 
pack of two, lower than the stock price because of their healthcare coverage but higher than in years past.
Dubow said even though the 
price for her anti-allergy medica-tion continues to rise, it won’t stop her from keeping it for emer-
gencies. If she ever needed to use 
an EpiPen, she said, she would probably give the pen to a friend to administer.
“I have a lot of anxiety about it, 
so I would have someone else do it for me,” she said.
Dubow said the fact that Mylan 
chose to increase the price of a 
life-saving drug injector is unfair. “I think that it’s terrible that 
the price has increased in the past 
few years, because it’s a life sav-
ing drug,” she said. “It would be tragic if someone needed it and 
couldn’t afford it.” 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgFRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
 
Nine parties registered for UF 
Student Government’s Fall elections 
Thursday.
Parties have until Wednesday at 
noon to register, said Eric Hobbs, UF’s supervisor of elections. Parties must be formed before students can begin interviewing to run with them next Thursday. 
To qualify for elections, parties 
must either have candidates for the executive ticket or have at least six candidates for Senate, according to the 700 election codes. 
Although parties registered to-
day, Hobbs wrote in an email he still has to determine whether all parties meet the requirements.
Currently, there are two par-
ties in SG: Access Party and Impact Party. 
Access registered Thursday, said 
Michael Russel, the Access presi-dent. During Fall elections, he said, Access will focus on passing the on-line voting amendment in addition to their platform on student ideas, which has yet to be created.
“We saw what was happening 
over the Summer, and we saw our party still needed to exist,” Russel said. 
Impact also registered and will 
seek student ideas for its platform, Impact president Janae Moodie wrote in an email. 
“The Impact party put the online 
voting amendment on the ballot, and we’re excited for students to have the opportunity to decide for themselves,” she wrote in an email. 
She explained that Senate Presi-dent Jenny Clements (Impact, Dis-trict A) sponsored all amendments to the Student Body constitution.
According to Alligator archives, 
Global Vote started a petition to place online voting on the ballot in the Spring 2015 election, which passed. Over the Summer, that amendment and four others were deemed unconstitutional by SG’s Supreme Court. These amendments will be voted on again in Spring. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  
 SG Fall election registration begins, nine parties apply
UF students aﬀ  ected by increase in cost of EpiPen 
Zachariah Chou / Alligator Staff 
The price of EpiPens has signiﬁ  cantly increased since 2007.  
UPCOMING SG DATES 
• Sept. 1:  Qualifying and 
interviewing from noon to 6 p.m. on the third ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union. 
• Sept. 2:  Qualifying and 
interviewing from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
• Sept. 6:  Qualifying and 
interviewing from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
• Sept. 14:  Absentee ballot 
requests close at 5 p.m. The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
UF should extend the drop/add period for classes
Riddle me this. Classes began Aug. 22, and 
by Aug. 26, only four days later, UF stu-dents are expected to have decided wheth-er they want to drop their course. If not, they have to pay for it anyway.
How is that enough time for people to decide 
whether they want to take the class if most teach-ers only discuss the syllabus during the first week? Students can hardly get a feel for the pace of the course or what they’ll be learning.
UF offers a 25-percent refund on courses if stu-
dents drop by Sept. 16, but at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, classes for the Fall 2016 semester begin Sept. 7, and students have until Nov. 23 to drop classes without any repercussion.
While their classes might be more difficult, there’s no 
reason we shouldn’t be given a few extra weeks to deter-mine whether to drop a class. According to UF’s website, classes for Florida residents cost about $210.43 an hour, for which a three-credit course ends up being about $640. The same three-credit course costs, on average, about $3,000 for non-residents.
Having to throw away about $500 terrifies me, and I 
can’t imagine a non-residential student contemplating dropping a course after realizing it’s no good. Even with a 25-percent refund, a non-Florida resident could have used that money to pay the rent for their entire semester of school.
A 2003 study conducted by Southeastern Louisiana 
University, called “Why Do Students Withdraw From Courses,” showed students’ top-five reasons for course withdrawal included: The student was uninterested in the subject, the student didn’t like the course or the student didn’t like the professor.
I’d imagine it would take more than a week to gar-
ner whether you like a class or teacher. There have been many times when I regretted waiting another week after the drop/add period to realize I didn’t want to take a class. By then it was too late, and it didn’t seem worth it to drop because of all  of the money I’d throw away.
So why can’t UF and other schools or-
ganize a different format that makes it less stressful for students to drop a class during the semester? 
Although I do believe five weeks should 
give students enough time to decide whether to drop, a 25-percent return off the course 
just isn’t enough of a refund.
At the University of California Los Angeles, students 
don’t have to pay any fees if they drop before midnight their second week of classes. At the University of Southern California classes start Aug. 22, and students have until Sept. 9 to receive a refund, so why can’t we follow suit?
It will help our school more than hurt it to extend the 
drop time without a fee, because more students will be able to opt out of classes they don’t like or can’t man-age. Students will also be more likely to succeed in their schoolwork without the added stress of knowing their money has gone to waste. Our school can afford to make this change, and it could impact students’ mental health significantly.
I know I’ve cried a few times over classes I didn’t drop 
in the first week but wished I could.
Even if UF were to consider other options like George 
Washington University’s, which gives students a 60-per-cent refund in their second week and a 40-percent refund in their third, students might decide to drop classes more often earlier in the semester.
We already have to pay enough money, and the loom-
ing threat of throwing it away can lead us to make deci-sions that aren’t the best for us. So please, UF, reconsider.
Nicole Wiesenthal is a UF journalism senior. Her col-
umn appears on Fridays.Here we are, dear readers: the end of the first week of 
school. It feels like only a few short hours ago we were pack-ing our bags and kissing our families goodbye as we ventured into the abyss of collegiate life. Time flies when you’re adding and dropping classes like there’s no tomorrow. For all of our new readers out there, welcome to the Friday version of our paper, where we survey the what’s going on in the world and either praise a story with a “laurel” or banish one forever with a “dart.” So get ready for our epic roast, our salty attitude gone wild, our Fall debut of…
Darts & Laurels
First things first, let’s touch on everyone’s go-to, man-
crush-Monday piece of eye candy: Rush Limbaugh. 
Last week, the radio-talk-show host responded to an ef-
fort by the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Civil Rights, a branch of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, to call attention to and provide an infrastructure for the LGBTQ+ community living in rural America.
This #RuralPride campaign is geared toward both chang-
ing the perception that the LGBTQ+ are a metropolis-only community and tackling the particular needs and vulnerabili-ties of the nearly 10 percent of LGBTQ+ people living in rural America, according to the campaign’s webpage. Sounds good, right?
Well, Rush, who also refers to himself as El Rushbo, defi-
nitely doesn’t think so. To #RuralPride, El Rushbo said, “They (the ‘Obama Regime’) are trying to bust up one of the last geographically conservative regions in the country; that’s rural America.”
If more lesbians end up farming alongside traditional farm-
ers, what’s the problem? Lesbians are already all over your de-leted porn history, Rush, so don’t act like this is some plague falling from the sky. And news flash: There are already LG-BTQ+ living in rural America, and — guess what — some are already farmers. So, your precious rural America is in no danger of collapse. 
We give a dart to El Rushbo for further stoking left-
right hate by having his head so far up his own a--.
OK, now let’s talk about dildos. Progressive dildos. Social 
justice dildos. Students at the University of Texas at Austin took protest at the center of campus against Texas’ open-carry gun laws Wednesday by wielding and distributing another sort of firearm that’s actually illegal to carry on their campus: sex toys.
Rose Zander, a University of Texas at Austin student and 
organizer with the “Cocks Not Glocks” campaign told The Guardian, “We have crazy laws here but this is by far the craziest, that you can’t bring a dildo on to campus legally but you can bring your gun. We’re just trying to fight absurdity with absurdity.”
You see, dear readers, this is how you stage a protest: dil-
dos armed at the ready. And we’re not exactly sure why a Texas university would be so adamant about banning items that resemble human genitals; Ted Cruz is the senator from Texas, and all of Congress considers him one of the biggest dicks on the Hill.
Granted, we Floridians aren’t much better off with our 
elected officials (This is why you have to get out and vote!). Anyway, we give a hard plastic laurel to the Cocks Not Glocks campaign and all of the University of Texas at Austin students working so hard to hold their officials accountable and keep their school gun-free.
Who knew there could be more excitement to the first week 
of school than oversleeping past your first class or waiting for 5,000 years outside the advising office?
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORNicole  
Wiesenthal
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Last week, Iran and Russia reached 
a historic agreement that allowed Russia to launch military strikes 
from Iranian bases in order to 
“ﬁ  ght terrorism” and continue 
propping up the Assad regime. Consider-
ing no foreign military has operated from 
Iran since World War II, this was a con-
siderable step forward for Russia and, 
as I see it, a considerable step backward for the millions of Syrians on the ground 
who feel ﬁ  rsthand the brunt of Assad’s 
regime. A Russia more involved in Iran and Syria is bad for everyone.
Thankfully, however, the agreement 
proved to be short-lived. Iran revoked the agreement after Russia publicized 
it in, “a kind of show-off and ungentle-
manly (attitude),” according to the Irani-
an defense minister, Brig. Gen. Hossein 
Dehghan. Although Iran’s foreign min-
istry spokesman told reporters in Teh-
ran the tactical arrangement was only 
temporary, it appears Putin has a more 
long-term vision for Russia’s role in Iran. 
Frankly, after Crimea, Putin pushing the 
envelope too far shouldn’t surprise any-
one.
Apparently Russia and Iran are not on 
the same page, and the reasons for this 
can be traced back through recent histo-
ry. Since the Islamic Revolution in 1979, 
Iran has sought to increase its power in 
the region. Also since then, Iran’s inﬂ  u-
ence has been felt in a number of coun-
tries including Lebanon, Syria, Iraq and Yemen, where the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps and Hezbollah are deeply 
involved in internal political and military 
conﬂ  icts. More importantly, the Iranian leadership has emphasized national sov-ereignty and independence from outside meddling, whether it be from the West, 
Russia or any other country.
In other words, Iran sees itself as a 
regional power. Furthermore, Iran has 
gone beyond region-mingling in Afghan-istan and cooperating with al-Qaida. 
In recent years, Iran has even actively 
trained soldiers in Latin America who are sympathetic to the Islamic Republic. 
Since Iran has projected an image of 
power, the fact that Iran allowed Rus-
sia to use its soil for military operations 
represents a major deviation. Therefore, Russia’s disclosure of its military opera-tions from Iran projects an image of Iran as a client state rather than a true power. 
This source of embarrassment prompted 
Iran to terminate the agreement with Russia. 
Now that Russia’s reemerged in the 
international arena, grabbed land in Crimea and assisted Assad, it views itself in confrontation with the West: surprise. In this political game, the traditional logic of international power competition 
is played out. Russia bragged about its 
operations from Iran in order to show muscle to the West and publicly display the fact that Russia is back in the Middle East.
But Russia’s attempt to show its teeth 
at the West by ﬂ  aunting its special ac-
cess has backﬁ  red, embarrassing both 
Russia and Iran. On the Iranian end, the misunderstanding between the two gov-
ernments reﬂ  ects its underestimation of 
Putin’s duplicity and his insatiable thirst 
for power.
Russia and Iran have a clear mutual 
interest: maintaining the authoritarian regime in Syria. Additionally, because 
many companies are still unwilling to do business with the Islamic Republic, 
Russia is a particularly crucial commer-
cial partner. In 2014, the two countries 
signed a $20 billion energy deal.
While Russia would probably like to 
see a closer relationship between the two 
countries in order to expand its inﬂ  u-
ence, Iran is saying, “Not so fast.” How-
ever, whether this an isolated incident or 
a premonition for future Iranian-Russian 
relations is still unclear. For the sake of 
the unfortunate subjects of Assad’s bru-
tal regime, let us hope for the latter.
It is important for us as students and 
future leaders to pay close attention to the world beyond our borders. The cri-
sis in Syria, which has led to the biggest 
humanitarian crisis of our time, raises 
some serious moral questions. What is 
America’s role in this messy and brutal 
conﬂ  ict? Should we approach the in-
creasingly competitive Russia as a friend 
and avoid confrontation, or is it time to renew a more aggressive Cold War ap-proach?
Julian Fleischman is a UF political 
science and telecommunication senior. His column appears on Fridays.A strain between Iran and Russia: What does it mean?  Column
Julian  Fleischman
opinions@alligator.org Fall is an interesting time for 
music fans of any genre. This year has been packed 
with many great releases, 
and many more have yet to 
come. Here are some records to keep an eye out for this semester:
Yellowcard – "Yellowcard" 
(Sept. 30):
The 10th and ﬁ  nal studio al-
bum from Yellowcard is set to release soon. Following a strong summer on this year’s “Warped Tour” and 
signing with a new record label, the band has ﬁ  nally 
decided to call it quits after one last headlining tour. It will be hard saying goodbye to a band that has been so instrumental in the rock genre for decades.
Metallica – "Hardwired… To Self-Destruct" (Nov. 
18):
For the better part of 30 years, Metallica has shaped 
the heavy-metal genre. With each subsequent album becoming a must-have, I don’t expect anything less 
from the band’s upcoming 10th studio album, “Hard-
wired… To Self-Destruct.” This is their ﬁ  rst new album in more than eight years and the ﬁ  rst one with their own independent record label.
Green Day – "Revolution Radio" (Oct. 7):It is hard to believe Green Day is now a 30-year-old 
band. Surrounded by countless amounts of controversy and trips to rehab, this punk-rock band has been shap-ing music for years now. Although it has been a hard 
four years for the band since the releases of “Uno!”, 
“Dos!” and “Tre!” back in 2012, the new album’s lead single, “Bang Bang,” proves Green Day can still be the powerhouse punk band we all remember.
A version of this album review by Alec Erickson 
originally appeared in The Rocky Mountain Collegian.Fall music guide: 
Albums to look out forUWire
Alec Erickson
UWireBy Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
A 96-wheeled truck with 
a police escort dropped off a 
270,000-pound generator to 
UF Health Shands Hospital on 
Thursday morning.
The 10,000-horsepower 
generator will provide emergency 
power to the Cancer Hospital and 
surrounding new buildings, said Brad Pollitt, the vice president of facilities for UF Health. This will help if the main power grid goes 
down.
Both Gainesville Regional 
Utilities and Shands wanted an 
energy-efficient backup generator. 
It cost more than $7 million, and 
the generator will be ready for test operations in March. 
Pollitt said the project has 
been in the works since Shands 
Cancer Hospital was created in 
2009. At about 10:30 a.m. the massive machine found its home on Archer Road without causing major traffic disturbances, Pollitt 
said. 
“The unit is funded by GRU 
and is recovered through a long 
term contract with UF Health,” 
wrote Chuck Heidt, the project 
manager for the south energy center, in an email. 
The generator will be one of 
the most efficient machines in the 
nation, Heidt said.
In the event of a hurricane 
or city-wide power outage, the 
generator will allow UF Health hospitals to have the power they 
need to function normally, Pollitt 
said. 
“There’s not very many 
hospitals nationally that have this type of model where the 
local power company works with 
the hospital,” Pollitt said. “This generator means the hospital will 
never be without power.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016
Kelsey Bona / Alligator Staff
GIRL VS. BOYS
UF computer engineering freshman Daniela Travieso, 18, takes on the engineering boys in a game 
of “Super Smash Bros. ” on the Nintendo Wii U during the Freshman Leadership Engineering Group’s game night at Pugh Hall on Thursday.
Courtesy to the Alligator
The 270,000-pound generator will provide power to UF Health Shands Hospital. It cost more than $7 million and will begin testing in March.
UF Health gets $7 million backup generator for Shands HospitalCaitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
No criminal charges will be 
filed against an Alachua County Sheriff’s Office deputy whose police dog died of heat exhaustion.
 The deputy left the dog inside 
his patrol car last month, ACSO announced Wednesday.
After consulting with the 
State Attorney’s Office, an ACSO detective ruled Thomas Wilcox did not have any criminal intent when he left his dog, Robbie, 6, inside a hot patrol car on July 8, according to an offense report.
Now the department’s Office 
of Professional Standards will conduct an administrative internal investigation to determine if any policies were violated, said Lt. Brandon Kutner, an ACSO spokesman. The results will go to Sheriff Sadie Darnell.
“At the conclusion of that 
investigation, that will be filed up the chain of command,” Kutner said.
Possible penalties include a 
reprimand, time without pay or removal from the K-9 unit, he said. He said he didn’t know when the investigation will be finished.
Willcox, 41, has temporarily 
been assigned to work with other officers the department’s training division, Kutner said.
On the day Robbie died, 
temperatures outside Wilcox’s home in Newberry, Florida, reached 96 degrees, according to the report.  
Willcox, who was on vacation 
locally, had taken a break from a fishing trip to respond to a SWAT call earlier that day before returning to the trip, according to 
the report. 
Wilcox’s father told deputies he 
didn’t see Robbie in the yard when 
he stopped by at about 4 p.m. that day.
The father found Robbie, a 
Belgian Malinois, at about 5 p.m. 
and tried to spray him with a hose 
to cool him off.
When deputies arrived at 9:18 
p.m. to investigate the dog’s death, 
Willcox sat in a chair next to a 
kennel with a sheet over it.
“It appeared as if (Wilcox) 
had likely been weeping heavily,” according to the report.
While Willcox lacked motive to 
kill or injure Robbie, he contributed to Robbie’s death by leaving him in 
the hot car, according to the report.
While in some instances, K-9 
units are considered officers, such 
as with assault on a K-9, “in this 
case this law is not applicable,” 
Kutner said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgNo charges for ACSO 
deputy in K-9 death 
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
The City of Gainesville Pub-
lic Works Department announced 
Thursday that several roads and lanes in the city will be closed this weekend, with some closures last-ing longer.
Among the closures are the fol-
lowing:
Beginning at 7 a.m. Saturday, 
Northwest Eighth Avenue will be completely closed between North-west 23rd Street and Northwest 34th Street, near Hogtown Creek Headwaters Nature Park. Closures will last until Monday morning, ac-cording to a statement issued by the department.
For at least the remainder of Au-
gust, there will be temporary lane closures on Southwest 12th Street 
to allow for milling, repaving and 
re-striping of affected areas of the 
roadway, according to the state-
ment.
For about four more weeks, 
Northwest 14th Street will be 
closed between West University 
Avenue and Northwest Third Av-
enue, near Burrito Bros. Taco Co. 
This is to install a new sewer line 
and other utilities upgrades for 
construction of the Standard devel-
opment project, according to the statement. 
Until February 2018, Northwest 
18th Street will be partially blocked between Northwest First Avenue 
and Northwest Second Avenue, 
near The Spot, for construction of 
One College Park Apartments, ac-
cording to the statement.
All closures are subject to 
change due to poor weather or oth-
er unexpected conditions.
For further updates, residents 
are encouraged to visit the depart-ment’s Facebook page at facebook.
com/GainesvillePublicWorks.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgRoad closures across GNV this weekend
FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
2BR/1BA in NW. Available 9/1/16. Comes with W/D. New kitchen, bath, wood floors. Large backyard. $675/mo. Please leave message 352-371-3473     8-31-16-9-2
2/1 Brandywine $650/mo + $650 dep. Hi spd internet & water incl. <1mi to UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopping. On bus route. Avail Aug 15. Text 352.284.2654 or jrfong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-2
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $500/BR or $1500/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    8-31-16-8-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Female roommate for BR w/ pvt BA in house off SW ARcher Rd. $115/ wk + 1/2 utils. No children or pets. Please call for an interview 770-823-7099    8-26-4-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
2 Bd/1Ba Brandywine Condo $52,000. Newly renovated, on 1st floor, bus routes. Pool & clubhouse. Near UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopps. Text 352.284.2654 or jr-fong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
SUZUKI FORENZA 2006
Automatic, A/C, white, 125K miles. All power. $2800/OBO. Call 352-219-1298    8-26-16-8-12
2014 YAMAHA 250CC MOTORCYCLE
Very low miles, white, great condition. $2800. Call 352-372-2815     8-26-16-6-12
LOW MILE. Cherry of a car. 2006 Pontiac Grand prix GT, 67K miles.Prem options, Supchgr. White, w/ blk & tan Lthr, 1 owner, Maintianed, Must See to appreciate! $7K OBO. Call 352-332-6333. or 352-328-6934     8-26-16-5-121For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689- 8647    8-26-1-12
DONATE YOUR CAR FORBREAST CANCER!Help United Breast Foundation’sEducation, Prevention & Support ProgramsFAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION1-866- 594-4556     8-26-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the fall semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
ACROSS
1 Sonic employees
8 Shrinking section
at Barnes &Noble
11 Bit of wit
14 Anatomical rings
in irises
15 Earth-moving tool
16 Reproductive
cells
17 Fishing spot for
vacationing
Londoners?
19 Upset, with “over”20 Legwear for air
travelers?
22 Ruff stuff
25 Lacking26 Not quite right30 Until now33 P replacers, in
some lineups
34 Woman’s name
meaning “white”
38 Smooth, perhaps39 Retirement party
remark  ... or a
homophonic hint
to four long
Across answers
42 Epps of “House”43 Computer
conveniences
44 [That’s kinda
funny]
45 Sylvester’s genus47 Radius, e.g.49 “The Great
Escape” setting
53 Lots54 007 returning
fromassignment?
59 “... __ quit!”60 Vacant look?64 Toondom’s
Phineas, to Ferb
65 Strauss’ “__
Heldenleben”
66 Like the edges of
some mirrors
67 Dodge City-to-
Topeka dir.
68 Mining supply
69 Talked big
DOWN
1 Waiter at a stand2 LAX stat
3 Bonn : König ::
Lisbon : __
4 Place of rapid
growth
5 Miscellany
6 “¿Qué __?”7 Very, in Vienna8 “Carmina
Burana”performers
9 “It tolls for thee”
poet
10 Wetlands
grasses
11 Beat the buzzer,
say
12 National
alternative
13 Show wonder18 Email attachment21 Court action22 After “Our” and
with 54-Down,title for the VirginMary based onan 1871apparition
23 Where many
strikes are called
24 Subtle come-on,
perhaps
27 Geisha
accessory
28 Thin coating29 WWII White
House dog
31 Johnson &
Johnson brand
32 Hard-working
“little” folk talecritter
35 “30 Rock”
network36 Michael of
“Arrested
Development”
37 __ vincit omnia
40 Work on a novel
41 System of
thought
46 Carpenter’s array
48 Access
requirements
50 Forum language
51 “__ you done
yet?”
52 E. Berlin’s land54 See 22-Down55 African city on
the
Mediterranean
56 Romaine relative
57 Muffin go-with
58 St. Petersburg’s
river
61 Space bar
neighbor
62 What’s found in
central Arizona?
63 Byrnes of ’50s-
’60s TV
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/26/1608/26/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, August 26, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12 AutosFRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14Extended Day Enrichment Program
Now Hiring
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted to 
work with elementary school children doing 
arts & crafts, sports, Dance and
much more in an after school program
at various schools.
Hours are
M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders earn $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action
Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information call Misty @
the EDEP office 955-7766
8-26-16-5-14
Earn While You Learn 
     TEXT Marketing 
     Immediate/monthly residual income 
     Hank: 352-283-3880
8-26-16-5-14
ANIMAL SCIENCE INTEREST?
----INTERN WANTEDGAIN EXOTIC ANIMAL EXPERIENCECONTACT GAINESVILLE RABBIT RESCUEEmail betsyday@ufl.edu for information     8-26-16-5-14ABA Associates is seeking graduate or un-dergraduates in Psych, Special Ed, or re-lated field to work with individuals with de-velopmental disabilities. Interest in Behavior Analysis, diet and exercise is a plus. Please email Mark at lister@abaassociates.net for more information.     8-30-16-5-14
Lloyd Clarke Sports, 1 mile North of UF on 13th St, is seeking a friendly, caring and reliable sales team member. Position is 25-30 hr/wk including 1 weekend day. Apply in person to 1504 NW 13th St. No phone calls    8-26-16-3-14
Be Your Own Boss!
AAA Real Estate School is
offering a live real estate
licensing course starting 9/6.
Call 352-225-4653      8-30-16-5-14
Sales Associated wanted! Firearm & sales 
exp req'd. 30 + hr/wk. Sat or Sun a must. No calls! Apply at 626 NW 13th St. M & C Army Surplus    8-31-16-5-14
Tutor needed forCollege Algebra. $16/hr.
Email Terri @ tboland97@gmail.com    8-29-
3-14Monopoly research study: 
Looking for participants ages 15-21, Hispanic, born in the US.Call 352-294-5980 or email dmiller5@ufl.edu for more info.     9-2-16-10-14
Caregiver neededCompassionate caregiver needed for young lady with disability. Must be at least 18 years old, have a reliable vehicle,  and high school diploma or higher education.Over-nights and weekend shifts available.If interested, please contact Maryam Nikoonejad at (352)246-6039or Mr.Niko at (352)200-1017.        8-29-16-5-14
After School staff needed! Now hiring PT counselors and drivers with a Class A, B or C license! Patience, initiative and a desire to positively impact girls is required! Visit GirlsPlace.net for details!    8-26-16-4-14
National ATM’s is hiring workers to assist with ATM sales & marketing. Great for Student, flex hrs. Outgoing personality a+! Support & Training assistance. Commission $50.-$100. per location. Call 352-363-8373 or email re-sume to info@nationaleventatms.com    8-29-16-5-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time & Flexible Hours!
Seeking Supervisors, Warehouse Staff,
Cashiers, Bartenders & Cook
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
352-692-6244
9-1-16-12-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-2-16-12-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is 
seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Gator Tales Sports Bar & Grill
Hiring Bartenders & Servers. Apply at 5112 NW 34th Blvd, across from the YMCA.     9-2-7-14
Home helper for retired couple in NW Gainesville. Housekeeping, cooking & some driving. 15 hours a week. $13/hr. References & background check req.Contact Kathy, altacct@yahoo.com     8-30-16-4-14**Admin Assistant-Frat. Management**Office assistant needed for accounting and 
management company exclusively dealing 
with Fraternities at UF. Applicant must be in-
telligent, able to multi task, a self-starter, and 
driven. Microsoft Office skills a must. Office 
experience and sorority knowledge not re-
quired, but a plus. Will work with semesterly 
schedule, open M-F 9-5. Start at $8.50/hr 
Submit resume and paragraph about your-
self to info@fratmanagement.com     9-9-16-
10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Highland Lawn Maintenance
Is your yard in need of help? We provide quality lawn service that you can afford. We offer one time clean-ups as well as monthly service. Give us a call @ 352-514-5973.    8-29-16-5-15
FLIGHT SERVICE DISPATCHERGet FAA approved training in weeks,not yearsTo become a certified aircraft dispatcherJOB PLACEMENT ASSISTANCECall AIM 888-242- 2649     8-26-1-15DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary!Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price LockLock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion!855-479- 7963     8-26-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?Settle for a fraction of what you owe!Results may vary.Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates 1-877- 330-3429      8-26-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800- 224-0305     8-26-1-16
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?You and Your Family May be entitledto significant CASH AWARD.Call 1-855- 389-3099      8-26-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope &amp; Help LineFor a free assessment, 1-855- 995-3142     8-26-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Designated drivers are the greatest
15 Services 19 Connections 24 Pets 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Alex Holston and the Florida 
volleyball team open the 2016 season against No. 1 Nebraska tonight.Read the story on pg. 16.Florida football players selected to watch list
Florida defensive lineman Caleb Brantley, linebacker Jarrad Davis and 
offensive lineman Martez Ivey were named to the Rotary Lombardi Award watch list, the committee announced Thursday. The annual award is given to a player who displays excellence at his position.FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
MASSEY TRANSFERRED 
TO UF FROM HOLMES 
COMMUNITY COLLEGE. 
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Steve Spurrier didn’t forget 
about Dre.
That’s Dre Massey, Florida’s versatile junior wide receiver 
who spent two years at Holmes 
Community College in Mississippi 
before transferring to UF this year.
But before Massey earned a 
second shot at playing Division I 
football, he was recruited out of 
high school by Spurrier, then South Carolina’s head coach. Massey was a standout quarterback at 
Mauldin High School just outside 
of his hometown of Greenville, 
South Carolina.
But the recruiting talks didn’t 
work out in his favor.
“Everybody knew with my 
grades, I wasn’t gonna make it,” Massey said. “I had to go the JUCO route. I kind of got back on After two years in junior college, 
receiver finds home at Florida
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Dre Massey participates in drills during Spring practice at the Sanders Practice Fields. During his foot-
ball career, Massey has played quarterback, running back, receiver and returned kickoffs. 
SEE MASSEY,  PAGE 15
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
At 6-foot-6 with piercing green 
eyes, Fred Johnson is a man who 
walks into a room and demands at-tention. 
But as a recruit, he lived in the 
shadow of future teammate Martez Ivey. 
Johnson, a three-star offensive 
tackle from West Palm Beach, was rated No. 140 at his position by the 247Sports Composite. Meanwhile, Ivey was ranked No. 1.
As far as immediate contri-
butions, Johnson was an after-thought. Even he knew it. 
“My experience level in high 
school was little to none,” John-son said. “When I came to college I was more scared of, ‘Am I ready for this, am I not?’”
But as early as last season’s Fall 
camp, Johnson started to build confidence and surprise coaches. That confidence translated into be-ing the main backup for starting right tackle Mason Halter in 2015. It also led to a pair of starts.
And this season, with two years 
of football experience, Johnson is set to anchor the right side of Flori-da’s offensive line. But he’s not the only young player who will start up front.
Ivey, who’s moved inside, and 
fellow sophomore Tyler Jordan will hold down UF’s guard spots. Both of them 
also started at times last sea-son, playing on one of the worst 
offensive lines in 
the country. The Gators allowed more sacks (45) 
than any other FBS team. 
This season, for Florida to have 
success, they all know that needs to change. And that change starts with them.
“Tyler Jordan and Martez and 
Fred,” said David Sharpe, UF’s starting left tackle. “You know, we’re kinda lighting a fire under 
them, and they know it’s a big 
year.”
The remaining pieces aside from 
the three sophomores are Sharpe and center Cameron Dillard. Red-shirt junior Antonio Riles was also set to be a major cog before suf-
Youth along offensive line will prove critical to UF’s success
Ivey
SEE O-LINE,  PAGE 15FOOTBALL NOTEBOOK
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
Antonio Callaway has been 
taking reps with the first-team 
offense during practice over the 
last three weeks.
Whether he plays with them 
during Florida’s season opener against Massachusetts on Sept. 3 
remains to be seen.
Second-year UF coach Jim 
McElwain said Thursday that he 
has not heard from the university 
if Callaway — who was found not 
responsible in a Title IX hearing 
earlier this month for an alleged 
sexual assault — is eligible to play 
next weekend.
“We’re still working through 
some things,” McElwain said.
Callaway isn’t the only receiver 
whose status for the Sept. 3 opener 
remains up in the air.
McElwain did not say if 
freshmen Tyrie Cleveland and Rick Wells — who still face felony 
charges stemming from a summer 
incident involving BB guns and the destruction of campus property — 
would be available for the season 
opener. Both have also missed 
practice recently with hamstring 
injuries.
“Those two guys are obviously 
going through some things and 
dealing with some things,” 
McElwain said, “but they’ll be 
back.”
Eight Gators named 
preseason All-SEC
The Southeastern Conference 
released its Coaches’ Preseason All-SEC football teams on Thursday, with eight Gators making the cut.
Leading the pack for UF are 
senior linebacker Jarrad Davis and 
junior defensive back Jalen Tabor, 
the only two UF players who landed on the 28-member first-
team.
Offensive lineman Martez Ivey, 
defensive end Bryan Cox Jr. and 
punter Johnny Townsend earned 
second-team recognition, while offensive lineman David Sharpe 
and defensive backs Marcus Maye 
and Quincy Wilson landed third-team preseason accolades.
SEC West powerhouses 
Alabama and LSU led the conference with 13 representatives on the three preseason teams, with the Crimson Tide boasting an SEC-
best seven first-team members.
Injury updates
C.J. Worton will have to wait 
at least a couple more days before 
returning to the field.
McElwain said the junior wide 
receiver remains out of practice 
with a high ankle sprain.
“I’ve been a little nervous 
because obviously he’s been 
out for such a long time, yet the 
old, dreaded high-ankle sprain,” 
McElwain said. “… We never push 
anybody back before they’re ready, and that’d be the case there, and 
we miss him.”
While Worton continues to be 
sidelined, the Gators saw three 
players return to the practice 
field, including running back 
Jordan Cronkrite and offensive 
linemen Andrew Mike and Kavaris Season-opener status 
for three receivers remains unclear
SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
The last time Florida played 
Stanford in the 2014 NCAA quar-
terﬁ  nals, the game ended in a 2-2 
tie and came down to a penalty 
kick decision. 
Stanford advanced by a score 
of 4-3 and knocked Florida out of 
the playoffs.
It won’t be any easier this 
time. 
Tonight, the No. 6 Gators take 
on No. 3-ranked Stanford Cardi-nal in Palo Alto, California, for 
the ﬁ  rst time in nearly two years.
The match kicks off a six-game 
road trip for the Gators, one that 
includes three top-25 matchups, 
including games against No. 1 Florida State and No. 15 UCLA.
But before they can worry 
about that, the Gators have to get 
through the Cardinal.“They’re always a really good 
team,” sophomore Sarah Troc-
coli said. “It’s always been really great competition so I’m excited.”
The Gators (2-0) have to deal 
with a three-hour time change and the fatigue that comes with traveling across the country and 
playing a top-three team on the 
road. Stanford (2-0-0) won its 
ﬁ  rst two games against Navy and 
Georgetown, which were both on the road. 
“It’s always tiring traveling, 
especially to California,” Troccoli 
said. “But it’s sort of an exciting 
environment to play in because people don’t necessarily want you there, so it can kind of fuel 
you.”
Senior forward Savannah Jor-
dan, this week’s Southeastern 
Conference Offensive Player of the Week, has brought Florida’s 
offense to life by scoring a goal in each of the ﬁ  rst two games.
But the defense has yet to be 
tested against a quality opponent, 
and the Gators gave up two goals 
in their opening match against 
Iowa State.
 “I think we have had some re-
ally good offensive production. I 
don’t think we have been tested 
enough yet to see what we look 
like defensively,” coach Becky 
Burleigh said. “So I think this weekend will help provide that.”
This top-10 matchup starts at 
11 p.m. eastern and will air on 
the Pac-12 Network.
“Talent-wise we are equally 
good,” sophomore Melanie Mon-
teagudo said. “Obviously we 
don’t have our fans, but we still 
bring a great bench atmosphere… We still get it done.” 
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org  After two straight wins, No. 6 
Florida faces ﬁ  rst real test
The Gators play No. 3 Stanford on the road
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Melanie Monteagudo dribbles the ball during Florida’s 5-2 win over Iowa State last Friday. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida huddles prior to its 3-2 overtime win over Oklahoma State on Sept. 4 in Gainesville. 
FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
track and got some offers.”
Massey did so well in 2015, combining 
for 1,000 yards and nine touchdowns in 
nine games, that he heard from Spurrier 
at the end of the season.
But both ended up choosing Florida. 
Spurrier resigned from South Carolina 
in October and returned to UF in July 
as an ambassador and consultant to the athletic program.
Since he’s been here, Spurrier has 
praised Massey’s abilities.
“He’s very impressed with my hands 
and how good I can catch the ball,” Massey said. “I didn’t expect that coming from someone who’s never played 
receiver.”
While his receiving skills garnered 
attention from Florida, it’s Massey’s 
speed and flexibility that will get him on the field and make a difference this 
season.
Coach Jim McElwain said he plans to 
use the 5-foot-9, 180-pounder as a kick 
returner, receiver, quarterback and even 
a punter this season.
“I think the thing about him is his 
versatility to do a lot of different things,” 
McElwain said. “Everything from punt to throw to handle it carrying it out of the 
backfield. There’s a lot of different things, and he’s one of those guys that you can use in a lot of different situations.”
Massey is still adapting, however. 
After nearly three weeks of preseason 
practice, he said Southeastern Conference 
football is a lot faster and more physical 
than junior college. Specifically, he’s had to pay more attention to detail in running his routes.
“In JUCO, we just kind of go,” he 
said. “If you’re good, you’re good.”
Lining up against the likes of corners 
Jalen Tabor and Quincy Wilson has also helped Massey, who said Wilson’s 
6-foot-1, 213-pound frame is especially 
difficult for him.
“Going into a game, you know you 
aren’t going to see guys as good and talented as them,” Massey said. “It just 
shows me when you go against players 
like that, the games will be easy.”
Massey always knew he was talented 
enough to play in a venue like Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium. What has helped him 
adjust to the speed of the game is the chip on his shoulder.
“It’s really your last chance,” Massey 
said of playing JUCO ball. “I think that 
humbles you enough to know that this is 
it. That’s kind of your mindset going in. Are you gonna make it or not?”
 
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgMASSEY,  from pg 13McElwain plans to play 
Massey at multiple positions
Harkless.
This and That
Tabor and tight end C’yontai Lewis 
returned to practice on Thursday. Both are still suspended for the season opener.
On Thursday, the Gators began their first day of game prep for the season opener against UMass. “There’s a lot of things that we’ll kind of do from a routine standpoint, work situations with the crowd noise to get our guys kind of used to that,” McElwain said. 
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.orgNOTEBOOK,  from pg13Tabor, Lewis suspended for 
Florida's opener on Sept. 3fering a season-ending knee injury 
early in Fall camp.
That leaves lofty expectations 
on the shoulders of the underclass-men. Their defensive counterparts 
are doing their best to prepare them, 
especially redshirt senior defensive lineman Bryan Cox Jr., who takes pride in pushing Johnson’s limits during practice.
“He’s a very strong competi-
tor,” Johnson said of Cox. “I’m glad that he’s here so I can get better in my technique and hone my skills 
against him.”
Working against veterans like 
Cox is just one way to ensure the 
offensive line doesn’t see a repeat of last year’s performance. Another is improved communication. 
“It’s getting stronger and stron-
ger,” Ivey said, adding that the group is almost at a point where 
they are able to communicate with-
out talking to each other at all. 
“It’s gotten to that point almost,” 
he said. 
The improved communication 
comes with familiarity — some-thing the group lacked as freshmen.
And just as their lack of familiar-
ity is no longer an excuse for poor 
performance, neither are their ages.
“They’re all stepping up, you 
know, doing their jobs and just be-
ing the players they’re looked to be,” Sharpe said. “I feel like they’re all taking bigger steps.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgO-LINE,  from pg13The offensive line has made communication a priority 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Fred Johnson emerges from the tunnel at Commonwealth Stadium in Lexington, Kentucky, prior to Florida's 14-9 win over the Wildcats 
on Sept. 19. Johnson made his first start six games later against V anderbilt at home. 
Alligator File Photo
Linebacker Jarrad Davis (40) tries to shed a block as FSU running back Dalvin Cook (4) runs through Florida's defense during UF's 27-2 loss to the Seminoles on Nov. 28. 
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
After a 2015 season that ended 
in agonizing defeat, the Florida 
volleyball team ﬁ  nally has a shot 
at redemption.
The No. 10 Gators open the 
2016 season tonight against No. 1 
Nebraska in Eugene, Oregon.
This will mark the fourth time 
in program history that Florida 
has challenged the No. 1-ranked 
team in its season opener, the last being in 2003 when the Gators squared off with then-No. 1 
Southern California. 
But this Nebraska team isn’t 
your average No. 1-ranked team.
While the Gators dropped a 
ﬁ  ve-set thriller to Texas in the 2015 NCAA Tournament quar-
terﬁ  nals, the Cornhuskers were hardly challenged, crushing the Longhorns in straight sets to cap-
ture the 2015 national champion-
ship.
“Any time you play a Nebras-
ka team, you know, they’re very well coached, so disciplined,” UF 
coach Mary Wise said. 
“They’ve got a chance to, if 
not today, not too long from now, 
be even better than they were a 
year ago, and that’s really saying 
something.”
While Nebraska features a 
squad that lost only two starters to graduation, Florida will wheel 
out a team packed with new, in-
experienced faces.
And although Florida lost ﬁ  ve 
seniors to graduation at the end of last year, the Gators return plenty of talent and experience on their 
young, 18-member roster. 
Leading the team into battle is 
6-foot-4 ﬁ  rst-team All-American 
Rhamat Alhassan, the team’s cap-tain. 
The junior defensive dynamo 
ﬁ  gures to be a terror above the net this season.
Alhassan ranked second in the 
nation in blocks last season (189). 
And at 1.47 blocks per set, she is currently tied for second in Florida’s career record book. 
By her side are a pair of All-
Americans in Alex Holston and Carli Snyder.
As the team’s lone senior, 
Holston will look to lead by ex-
ample. 
The right-side hitter elevated 
her game last season, compiling 
438.5 points and 381 kills.
And Snyder, a rising star 
within the Florida program, set career highs in kills (247), aces 
(12), digs (246), 
blocks (39) and 
points (283) last season.
If the Gators 
hope to topple the reigning 
national champions in tonight’s match, they’ll need more than 
Snyder, Holston and Alhassan.
They’ll need the whole team.And while Wise said that tak-
ing on this squad will be a difﬁ  -cult test for her players, it doesn’t 
mean they’re not up to the chal-lenge.
“It’s all about the learning ex-
perience,” she said. 
“It gives us the chance to mea-
sure ourselves. …it’s about the long-term process.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org  16   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 2016
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Be a part of something big 
and give blood today. For more information, call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients UF volleyball opens season on road vs. No. 1 Nebraska  
The Gators went 25-7 last season and made the Elite 8
Snyder
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Coach Mary Wise celebrates from the sideline during Florida’s 3-0 win over Ole Miss on Sept. 25 in the O’Connell Center. For the fourth 
time in program history, UF will open its season against a No. 1-ranked opponent when it faces Nebraska tonight.
“It gives us a chance to 
measure ourselves... it’s about 
the long-term process. ”
Mary Wise
Volleyball Coach