We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 161 TUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016
The Alligator Awards
Who was UF’s best female athlete of 2015-
16? Read our debate, pg. 14
UF professor and students debut original show
The premiere will be this Thursday, pg. 3
Research Roundup
Greenhouse gas emissions, invasive plants and blueberries, pg. 8Connect with us
Visit alligator.org or @thealligator on Twitter
Zachariah Chou / Alligator 
GOTTA CATCH ‘EM ALL
Students gather near a Pokémon hotspot on the Reitz Union North Lawn on Friday evening. A student 
installed a “Lure Module” in the area’s PokéStop, which increased the chances of ﬁ  nding wild Pokémon in the area. See page 4 for the full story and more photos.
SAFETY
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
As of Friday, Alachua County’s 
Sheriff Ofﬁ  ce has decided to dis-
patch two cars for each call it re-
ceives.
ASO spokesman Art Forgey 
said this new rule was created be-
cause of the shooting of ofﬁ  cers 
in Dallas and information the of-ﬁ  ce received that could endanger 
ofﬁ  cers in Gainesville.
“They’re still single cars, but 
they’re being dispatched in two cars to each call,” he said. “Each car still has one deputy in it, but they’re dispatching two units to 
each call.”
As of press time, the sheriff’s 
ofﬁ  ce does not know if this rule 
will become permanent or how long the ofﬁ  ce will follow it, For-gey said.
“We will implement this as 
long as necessary for the safety of our ofﬁ  cers,” he said. “I think there’s always safety in numbers; we always preach that to folks 
who are out and about in public.”
Gainesville Police is also en-
forcing this rule. The depart-
ment dispatched two ofﬁ  cers for each call over the weekend, GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
“For our safety, we are not go-
ing to disclose our operations go-ing forward,” he wrote.
However, University Police is 
not changing any procedures as of press time, UPD spokesman Major Brad Barber wrote in an email. “We will however continue to 
assess any developing situation and make whatever changes are 
necessary to help ensure commu-
nity and ofﬁ  cer safety,” he wrote.
@saradmarino 
smarino@alligator.org
 Local police departments implement new safety rule
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
The mayor of Gainesville, Lau-
ren Poe, started a new commu-nity book club that will use books 
to spark discussions on a broad 
range of topics, Poe said.
Mayor’s Book Club will have 
its ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  cial meeting Sept. 12 
at 6 p.m. at the Library Headquar-ters downtown. A new book will 
start every three months, he said.
The ﬁ  rst book is the award-
winning “Between the World and Me” by Ta-Nehisi Coates. The book deals with race issues and 
what it’s like to be black in Amer-
ica, Poe said.
“I wanted to pick books that 
are challenging,” he said. “Get us to ask questions of ourselves that we usually wouldn’t con-sider or give us a perspective on 
something that we don’t currently 
have.”
Mayor Poe, who has not read 
the book yet, said he wants to ex-
perience it at the same time as the 
rest of the club.
Faye Williams, a community 
organizer for the Porters Quarters neighborhood, said she knew the author’s father when she owned a bookstore in Washington, District 
of Columbia. She said she loved 
the power and voice Coates’ writing had even before he won awards.
Gainesville is still segregated, 
economically and geographically, Williams said. She said she hopes people will read the book and feel empowered to become active in their communities.
“I’m really impressed with 
Poe, when you think about it — this is a southern white-man may-or who chose a northern black man’s book,” she said. 
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org
 Gainesville mayor starts book club, hopes to start discussionsBy Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Ty Redler, a 22-year-old UF biol-
ogy senior, said he spent days wor-
ried about his lost service dog until 
he ﬁ  nally found him Saturday.
“He was in the hammocks,” 
Redler wrote in a text message. “All of a sudden my friend’s like oh my god, I see Rusty and I’m like oh my 
god, you see Rusty.”
Redler said he and his friend 
found Rusty in Hammock Oaks Apartments.
Redler said he believes Rusty 
had been in that area for some time because there was a water source 
nearby and neighbors had left out food for cats. 
“Yeah, I honestly think he was 
chilling out there for awhile,” Redler said. 
Redler said besides some ant 
bites and ticks, Rusty is still in good shape.
“He looks great, he lost about 
ﬁ  ve pounds, which is nothing,” he said. “He’s looking beautiful.”
Once the two were reunited, 
Redler said the ﬁ  rst thing he did was lay down and hold Rusty be-
fore going to the pet rescue to get 
the dog cleaned and vaccinated.
Redler said he was diagnosed 
with Crohn’s disease in 2008, be-coming progressively sicker. Last year, he underwent a major sur-
gery and had to enroll in physical 
therapy. At that point, Redler said it was time for a service dog, which is 
when he got Rusty.
“It’s a dream come true to have 
him back,” Redler said. “I’m just so happy that I get to have my dog 
next to me again. Life was not the same without my dog.”
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.org  Student ﬁ  nds service 
dog over weekendSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
HIGH  96° LOW  73°AM
WHAT’S HAPPENING
‘Sketchy People’
The UF School of Theatre + 
Dance is pleased to present, 
“Sketchy People,” written by 
Charlie Mitchell in collabora-tion with the cast of the show. Hilarity ensues when members 
of a sketch comedy troupe re-
unite for one performance only. Will this live show be the big break in show business they desired for so long? Or will the 
same personal conflicts that led 
to their breakup dash their des-perate hopes? “Sketchy People” brings hilarity and slapstick 
antics to UF from Thursday 
through Sunday. Tickets are $13 for students with their Gator 1 Card, $18 for the general public and can be purchased through the University Box Office.
Creative B short film screenings
This series of short-film screen-
ings will offer entertaining and 
thought-provoking glimpses into collaborations between art, 
dance, health and science fic-
tion. Today's program puts the 
spotlight on contemporary ap-
proaches to dance.   The pro-gram was created in consulta-
tion with Trent D. Williams, 
Jr. of the School of Theatre and 
Dance. It begins at 7 p.m. at 
Digital Worlds Institute REVE, 
Norman Gym. It is free and open to the public. For more informa-tion, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgettenberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Alligator Staff, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto, 
  Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Britney Jenkins, Juan Londono, 
  Alexandra LeCras, Christian Mayorga,
  Caroline Rhoades, Jeffrey Romer, 
  Mathews Silva, Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 161
TUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Daniel Hopin
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s School of Theatre + Dance 
will premiere an original per-
formance, “Sketchy People,” on 
Thursday at the Black Box Theatre. 
The show is directed and writ-
ten by UF professor Charlie Mitch-ell in collaboration with student actors. It focuses around a sketch 
comedy troupe that reunites af-
ter several years to perform a last show, according to the UF College 
of Arts website.  
Mitchell said he was approached by a director from the school in the Spring to write a devised piece for 
the Summer. 
A devised piece is a show creat-
ed from scratch with collaboration 
from the actors, he said.
“Normally a playwright just 
goes into a dark room somewhere and creates a play,” he said. “In 
this case, it’s sort of a workshop where you and the actors can write 
the material together.”
Mitchell said the idea for the 
show came from a sketch comedy 
class he teaches. He said he got plot ideas by watching the actors improvise different scenarios in character. 
“It was about a sketch comedy 
group so of course we needed to make sketches,” Mitchell said.  “Just like ‘Saturday Night Live,’ we 
needed material.”
The eight-character cast is a 
mixture of undergraduate and graduate theatre students.   
“The real trick was trying to re-
ally honor their contributions and have eight well-developed charac-
ters,” Mitchell said.  “It’s tough.”
Mitchell said he spent his sum-
mer days working with the actors for five hours at a time playing im-prov games to generate ideas. At night, he would spend another five 
hours synthesizing those ideas into 
a working script. 
“I’m very curious to see what 
works and what doesn’t work,” he 
said.  
Summer Pliskow, a 20-year-old 
acting major, plays three charac-ters in the show. She said it was a 
new experience for her working on the play, but she had a lot of fun.
“It was great to have a piece of 
us in the show,” she said. 
Pliskow said Mitchell inter-
viewed all of the actors in the cast and used parts of their lives to mold the backstories and person-alities of their characters. 
“Some people have exact sto-
ries from real life put into them,” Pliskow said. “My character Megan that I play, her relationship bits are 
actually pieces from my life.”   
The play runs Thursday, Fri-
day and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m., according to the 
UF College of Arts website. Tickets will cost $13 for students and $18 
for the public. Tickets can be pur-
chased at the University Box Office 
or at ticketmaster.com. 
“Expect to be entertained,” Plis-
kow said. “It’s a laugh-out-loud 
kind of comedy.”UF professor, student actors to debut show on Thursday4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
With the release of a new app 
developed by Niantic Inc., some 
students’ childhood dreams are 
becoming reality.
Pokémon Go was released 
Wednesday as an augmented reality game that can be played on a smartphone. 
“It’s cool to see Pokémon on 
your desk or at the Reitz Union,” said Garrett Fine, the sponsors 
manager for Gator Gaming. Gator 
Gaming is a UF club that hosts weekly gaming events, including 
games like Super Smash Bros., 
Fine said.
The game uses GPS and your phone’s camera to bring a virtual 
creature into the physical world, 
the 21-year-old UF computer science senior said. 
Fine said you can gain 
experience and level up by catching Pokémon, hatching 
Pokémon and going to gyms. 
“My character is level 14, and 
I’m catching Pokémon with up to 800 combat power,” he said. 
Players have to physically walk 
around to move their characters and ﬁ  nd new Pokémon, and Fine 
said he has already walked 15 miles through the game. 
Fine said he ﬁ  rst owned 
Pokémon Red for his Gameboy Color when he was 6 years old. 
“It feels very nostalgic,” he said.
Everyone is outside playing 
a game we grew up with, he said, even those who didn’t play 
Pokémon as kids. 
“Michelle Obama has been 
trying to get people outside for eight years,” he said, referencing 
a social media post he saw. “Pokémon Go did it in 24 hours.”
According to Forbes, after the 
release of the game, Nintendo’s stock prices reached a 25 percent 
increase by Monday. The app 
itself was developed by Niantic Inc., which worked with Nintendo 
and The Pokémon Company.
The app is free and has no ads, 
Fine said. Within the game, users can make microtransactions to purchase more Poké Balls, eggs, lures and other in-game items. 
UF management senior 
Rayquon Fields, 21, works at the Reitz Union and said students 
have been playing the game constantly. 
“It’s a waste of your phone 
battery,” he said. “People are just walking around aimlessly 
throwing Poké Balls in the 
hallway.”
Fields said Pokémon will 
always be a classic game, but he prefers to have real interactions with people. 
John-Michael Diekmann, 
a 21-year-old UF fourth-year mechanical engineering student, 
said he hasn’t played the game much but likes that it gets people out in the environment instead 
of sitting in front of a gaming console. 
Augmented reality has been 
around for a while, Diekmann said. There are other games that 
use the same technology, he said, 
but they are just not as popular because they lack recognizable 
names. 
“I think augmented reality 
games are the next big step in getting kids off their butts and 
outside while still playing their favorite video game,” he said. 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org
 Pokémon Go brings virtual creatures to UF campus
Zachariah Chou / Alligator 
Students sit outside the Reitz Union and play Pokémon Go on Monday. “It’s really cool to see other 
people playing because at ﬁ  rst you feel insecure since you’re 18 years old and playing Pokémon, ” said Barrett Brueckner, an 18-year-old UF psychology freshman who was playing at the time, “but then you realize everyone else around you is doing it, and you feel happy. ” 
Pictured is a screenshot from Pokémon Go, in which players 
can capture Pokémon on their phones using the built-in GPS. 
The game can be downloaded for free on Android and iOS.
TUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
THE FAIR TARGETS  
STUDENTS LOOKING FOR  
JOBS DURING SUMMER B.
By Nealy Kehres
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF freshman Sam Rynor said he wants 
to make money, but he doesn’t want to call 
dozens of employers and drive around town dropping off applications.
“I know it’s time for me to get a job, but 
I know job-hunting can be a struggle,” the 19-year-old business major said. 
UF’s Career Resource Center aims to minimize this struggle with its ninth annual Part-Time Job Fair on July 20.
The fair offers students and alumni the 
chance to speak with employers in various UF departments and industries, said Ashley White, a career events and development in-tern that helped organize the event. 
Last year, the fair was hosted in the Fall 
and attracted more than 1,500 students. This 
year, the center will target students looking 
for a way to meet their financial needs dur-ing Summer B, White said. 
Trevor Mylin, 21, said he rigorously 
hunted for a job so he could save up enough money for an LSAT law school aptitude test prep class. “I would apply online to a couple places 
a day and then drive around Gainesville dropping off applications,” said the UF po-litical science senior. “It definitely gets de-moralizing at times.”
Mylin and Rynor both said the fair will 
present an easier way to find a job.
The fair is free to students and alumni 
and requires no pre-registration.
White said students should wear busi-
ness-casual attire and come with a positive attitude. 
“You can be optimistic, because they’re 
coming to recruit,” she said. “Bring your re-sume. Bring a pen, and most importantly, bring your smile.” CRC to host part-time job fair for UF students, alumni
By Jessica Rodriguez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville residents showed their support 
for the musical “The Toxic Avenger” after its 
popularity called for an extended end date. 
The musical, a parody about a hero, a vil-
lain and an important message opened June 
3 and will run until July 31 as opposed to the 
June 26 closing date.
“I don’t think anyone has found a secret to 
what the audience will and will not embrace,” 
said Lauren Caldwell, the artistic director of the Hippodrome State Theatre and director of 
the musical. “If I ever figure out the secret to 
that I’ll let you know.”
 Summertime is usually vacation time, and 
the musical is one of those things that offers 
a great time in a cool building, Caldwell said. 
The cost to put on a musical costs thou-sands of dollars and differs with every show, 
she said. Musicals are more expensive due to 
the amount of work needed to put everything together as well as the loyalties they need to 
pay. 
The musical will be shown Tuesdays and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m., Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m., Saturdays at 5 p.m. and 8:30 p.m., 
and Sundays at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m.
Previews are $18; Friday, Saturday and 
Sunday matinees are $35; and Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday evenings 
are $30. Discounts of $25 include seniors, people under 30 and veterans; discounts of 
$15 include student and youth; and discounts 
of $20 are offered for far side seats.
@jesskorina
jrodriguez@alligator.orgSummertime allows double 
hold-over for musical
NEW YORK (AP) — The Standard and 
Poor’s 500 index closed at a record high 
Monday, beating the mark it set a bit over 
a year ago.
The Dow Jones industrial average was 
within 1 percent of its own closing high, 
which was also set in May last year, but 
the Nasdaq composite has further to go. 
The technology-focused index is still neg-ative for the year.
The S&P 500 gained 7.26 points, or 0.3 
percent, to 2,137.16. That beat the record 
close of 2,130.82 it reached May 21, 2015.
The market has had a rough ride in the 
year since the S&P 500’s last record. In-
vestors have been rattled by plunging oil 
prices, falling corporate earnings, fears 
over possible rising interest rates, slow-ing growth in China and, most recently, Britain’s historic vote to leave the Euro-pean Union.
In the weeks since the British refer-
endum, however, many investors have come around to thinking that the conse-quences of the “Brexit” may be contained largely to Britain, and they’ve gone back 
to buying stocks again.
Jonathan Corpina, the senior manag-
ing partner at Meridian Equity Partners, 
expressed surprise that the market has bounced back so much that the S&P 500 
has reached another record high.
“If you looked at the headlines from Brexit, you’d think that the world was coming to an end,” Corpina said. “And 
very quickly, in a matter of weeks, that 
was completely erased.”Stocks gain, setting a new 
record high for S&P 500 in
Carolyn Meador, a UF psychology freshman, receives a balloon 
crown. GatorMania provided free food and attractions for those who attended the event on Saturday afternoon. Companies attending
Bento Cafe
UF RecSports
The Flood Insurance Agency
For a full list, visit the CRC’s website
SATURDAY FUN IN THE SUN    Photos by Zachariah Chou
Pablo Casilimas, a UF advertising senior, throws Jonathan Yap, a UF industrial and systems engineering fourth-year student, as part of a demonstration for the Gator Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu organization on Saturday during GatorMania on Flavet Field. The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Commercial fireworks should be banned
China may have invented fireworks more 
than 2,000 years ago, but fireworks have been linked to America since the birth of this country. In a letter to Abigail Adams on July 3, 1776, John Adams wrote that 
the signing of the Declaration of Independence should be celebrated with “... Bells, Bonfires and Illuminations from one End of this Continent to the other from this Time forward forever more.” While fireworks were once championed by a fu-ture president and first lady, they are now advo-cated by Joe Dirts with butane lighters.
There’s a reason we do not partake in some practices 
they used to do back in 1776. No wait, there’s a reason we do not, not partake in a lot of the practices they used to do back in 1776. Times change. Although fireworks may have been a tradition to celebrate the birth of this country since its founding, it is time to say farewell to fireworks.
Fireworks are very dangerous, yet they aren’t treated 
as so. Unlike 240 years ago, anyone with $20 can buy professional-grade fireworks to not only possibly put on a spectacular show, but also hurt themselves and others. Ac-cording to the Consumer Product Safety Commission, 11 firework-related deaths and an estimated 10,500 treated in-juries occurred in 2014. Sparklers are the source of the most injuries, and children 5 to 9 years old have the highest rate of emergency-treated injuries. This isn’t what John Adams had in mind.
A view of dumb people hurting themselves as the reason 
for firework injuries may yield fireworks as a low concern for many on their priority scale. Okay, because there’s an-other reason that is a main concern of almost all Americans. Even before 1776, the idea of America had to be protected by its citizens from those looking to threaten its existence. But that threat is no longer the British waiting just outside our borders. Today’s threat is anyone looking to make an explosive. In the beginning of July, it could be anyone look-ing to buy fireworks. If the American govern-ment does everything in its power to keep people from attaining the resources to harm others and then turns its back one day each year, counter-terrorism efforts the other 364 days may prove to be a moot point. Americans shouldn’t give up all activities that bring enjoyment because they could be used for the wrong reason, but when an activity includes explosives, it’s time to give up that activity.
Stricter firework regulations could be the an-
swer, but they haven’t been effective so far. Ac-
cording to the Florida State Fire Marshal, fireworks that pro-pel themselves into the air or contain more than 100 grams of explosives are illegal. I was almost sure the fireworks keeping neighbors awake through the night weren’t abiding by these regulations, so I journeyed in search of how easy it is to purchase illegal explosives. I only had to drive three miles to George — you know, that local guy under a white tent on the side of the road who sells roses in February, fireworks in July and Christmas trees in December. There I found fireworks that shot up to 200 feet in the air for $15 and fireworks fueled by 500 grams of explosives for $75. Banning fireworks altogether is safer and more effective than wasting money cracking down on sellers of Screaming Meemies.
A firework is basically an explosive propelled into the 
air. This isn’t the 18th century anymore. Americans can satisfy their inner need for flashing colors and loud noises without “bombs bursting in air.” Giving people explosives that pollute the air, cause millions of dollars in property damage and injure thousands is no longer the way to go. This country has experienced countless changes in the past 240 years. How we celebrate the Fourth of July will have to be added to that list.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical engineering sopho-
more. His column appears on Thursdays.Black lives and  
police officers
T  his past week’s trauma is no secret.
Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge and Philando Castile in 
Minneapolis were both killed by officers who, in the video 
evidence, appeared more adrenaline-driven than “protect-the-community”-driven; and then there were the five inno-
cent, community-serving officers shot down in Dallas, Texas, by a vindictive, violent veteran black-male sniper shooter.
Those who prioritize evidence feel outraged by the injustices 
of all three of these cases, in which innocent lives were taken from us. This is why we’ve seen Black Lives Matter representa-tives decry the Dallas shooter, and this is why we’ve seen police officers stand peacefully with protesters and oversee the safety of demonstrations across our country’s cities this past weekend.
Our Opinions Editor, David, can attest to the existence and 
merit of these peaceful demonstrations – he spent the weekend in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, alongside two major marches: one framed around numerous political concerns, the other around a Black Lives Matter march.
So, now that we’ve highlighted the similar sentiments of Black 
Lives Matter, police and demonstrators across the country, we want to address recent reactions to Black Lives Matter — reac-tions we find factually inaccurate and negatively consequential.
There are a myriad of different reactions we could highlight, 
ranging from various memes to a former Illinois congressman’s “Real-America-is-coming-for-you,” anti-Obama tweet. However, we feel a solid example to focus on came from Tomi Lahren in re-sponse to the Dallas shooting. The media personality and host of “TheBlaze,” tweeted: “Meet the new KKK, they call themselves ‘Black Lives Matter’ but make no mistake their goals are far from equality. #Dallas #bluelivesmatter.”
She tweeted that hours after the Dallas shooting and later de-
leted it. We’ll give Tomi the benefit of the doubt and assume 
she deleted this tweet after discovering that the Dallas shooter, 
according to the Dallas Police Department, had no connections to Black Lives Matter or the protest he fired upon.
Nonetheless, deleting the tweet after the fact doesn’t take 
away from how potent her reaction was with such little evidence. When this story first broke, and by the time Tomi delivered her reaction, all we knew was the sniper shooter suspect shot 11 officers, fatally shooting five and wounding the others, during a Black Lives Matter march.
That Tomi’s immediate reaction to this was to equate the 
movement to a historically racist, monstrous, deplorably violent group and further pin them as anti-equality and anti-cop — and that her tweet received more than 2,000 likes and 1,000 retweets — signifies how many Americans hold a twisted view of Black Lives Matter altogether. It would be wrong to dismiss these indi-viduals as morally lacking. The day we devolve to pure character attacks is the day rational solutions-based discussion dies. We need to, instead, vigilantly stand by and argue the evidence.
Even if the shooter were wearing a Black Lives Matter T-shirt, 
which he wasn’t, his actions wouldn’t represent the movement any more than the “bad cops” represent cops at large. You’re always going to have trolls or bad actors on both sides.
If protestors can stand side-by-side with cops while staring 
down the forces of institutionalized racism and implicitly biased police brutality, then we can all take a minute to hold our breath and understand what this massive 3-year-old movement that has transformed racial discussions in our country actually stands for 
without arrogantly dismissing it as violent and irrelevant. 
We need to talk. We need to listen. We need to stand against 
violence and prejudice. Together.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORJoshua 
Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
To those of you who are not familiar 
with Bob Ross, stop reading this column and immediately turn on 
your computer and watch one 
episode of “Beauty is Everywhere” 
on Netflix.
After one episode, it is easy to understand 
why this man was universally adored. While watching him paint gorgeous landscapes is entertaining and weirdly mesmerizing, it’s secondary to the real reason we love his program: his soothing, oddly satisfying and 
enchanting voice. Whether he’s painting a 
bright sunny sky or a gloomy ocean scene, it is impossible for anyone to feel anything other than peace and warmth when 
listening to his narration. For 27 minutes, 
Ross politely steals your attention away from everything that is bad in the world. It’s just a correlation, but statistically I do better on exams when I watch an episode 
immediately before entering the classroom.
PBS radiated positivity whenever Bob 
Ross stepped on the screen. Fred Rogers 
(you know, Mr. Rogers) was another 
PBS legend with a contagious smile and 
welcoming persona. As entertaining as Mr. Rogers’ show was, it wasn’t loved by children because of the cute finger puppets and bright colors (Have you ever seen a red more “red” than one of Mr. Rogers’ sweaters?). It was because of Rogers’ calming 
demeanor. I know fellow 21-year-
olds who listen to recordings of Mr. Rogers’ show for the same reason I watch Bob Ross: It’s, 
quite simply, relaxing.
The last two months have 
probably been amongst the 
most tragic our nation has ever encountered. For the first time in my short 
life, I’ve heard peers my age repeat similar 
tropes our grandparents recite: “These are 
the worst of times.” When you look around, it’s hard to blame them. A lot of unusually horrific things have happened in the last few months. Like many of you, I can’t remember the last 
time I saw our flag at full-mast.
So the next time you turn on 
the television, or read a column 
in this paper, about how some 
thing or things may be shit 
(willing to bet there’s one next to me right now), remember this: We live in a wonderful time. 
Right now, our world experiences levels 
of peace and tolerance unfamiliar to the 
world before us.
This may strike you as odd or even 
blatantly false, but it’s true. It may not 
appear as such because the media is 
inundating our sphere of discourse with stories on issues that are controversial. The reality is these sources of information do so because it’s entertaining to stir the pot and 
get people involved in the conversation. 
What kind of headline would “Thousands of charitable organizations continue making countless of lives significantly 
better worldwide” be? The Great Bill 
Hicks once noted that when news report incidents regarding drugs, it’s always some horrific story where the details are fundamentally morbid. Not once do you hear the story, “Today a young man on acid realized that all matter is merely energy condensed to a slow vibration, that 
we are all one consciousness experiencing 
itself subjectively, there is no such thing as death, life is only a dream, and we are the imagination of ourselves. Here’s Tom with 
the Weather.”
Please don’t mistake my column for 
some optimistic, peppy bullshit either. 
Tragedy befalls often. Grief is hard to swallow. Some clouds have no silver 
lining. But do not believe that is all there is 
because it is all you see. Slowly but surely, we will get through this. More people will suffer. Just be patient. The lines 
between cultures, genders, races, sexual 
orientations, et cetera, are thinner now than they’ve ever been in human history. We’re still trudging forward.
When lights ablaze — whether from 
explosions or gunfire — they illuminate the faces of people helping one another to safety. Mr. Rogers once said that in times of distress, he would look for helpers: “You 
will always find people who are helping.” I 
encourage you all to do the same.
Zachary Lee is a UF philosophy senior. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.
Always hold on to your optimism, even when you experience tragedyColumn
Zachary Lee
opinions@alligator.org
"When lights ablaze 
— whether from 
explosions or gunfire 
— they illuminate the 
faces of people helping 
one another to safety."8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Progress made on cutting costs in controlling 
invasive aquatic plants
According to the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conserva-
tion Commission, from 2008 to 2015, $125 million was 
disbursed by state and federal water resource managers to combat the spread of invasive aquatic plants.
According to a release, $66 million of that amount 
concentrated on containing just one plant species: Hy-drilla. 
Recently, researchers at UF’s Institute of Food and Ag-
ricultural Sciences announced substantial progress in the ﬁ  ght against Hydrilla, including other invasive aquatic 
plants, according to a release.
Current research focuses on a system known as 
integrated pest management, which combines different 
control methods, said Lyn Gettys, an assistant professor of aquatic and wetland plant science at the IFAS Fort Lauderdale Research and Education Center in Davie, Florida. 
“Instead of relying solely on herbicides,” Gettys said. 
“Other methods — including grass carp, biological con-trol and mechanical harvesting — are used in conjunc-
tion with herbicides.” 
Combatting invasive aquatic plants not only reduces 
herbicide use, but it also has the potential to revitalize 
waterways and lakes once choked by Hydrilla and oth-ers, said Bill Haller, the acting director at the Center for Aquatic and Invasive Plants at IFAS.  
“If a lake is full of Hydrilla, people won’t go out in it,” 
Haller said. “People will choose to go ﬁ  shing somewhere else.”
- Justin FordUF study ﬁ  nds people don’t know about beneﬁ  ts 
of blueberries
UF researchers conducted a study to gauge how much 
people know about blueberries’ health beneﬁ  ts.
The study also sought to determine if there is a gap in 
knowledge about these health beneﬁ  ts across different de-
mographics.
Shuyang Qu, a 29-year-old doctoral student in agricul-
ture education and communications at UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, led the study.
Qu said the study found while people don’t know about 
some of the beneﬁ  ts of blueberries, like how the berries re-
vert aging, they do know certain ones: Most surveyed were 
aware of the berries’ ability to prevent cancer and lower 
risk of heart disease. 
“The fact that cancer and heart disease are the leading 
causes of death in America may have led to more personal research related to preventing the diseases,” Qu said. 
While the study didn’t ﬁ  nd a signiﬁ  cant difference of 
knowledge between income or gender, they did ﬁ  nd one key differentiating factor: education. 
“People with some college or more education were 
found to have higher levels of knowledge than those with high school or less education,” Qu said. 
Qu said one way to communicate the beneﬁ  ts would be 
to hold events during the blueberry season, like tastings. 
The study was performed through a survey of more than 
2,000 people across 31 states, mostly on the East Coast and in the Midwest, according to a release.
-Ryan SerpicoUF to study greenhouse gas emissions
UF researchers will use a $710,000 grant for a study 
about the environmental impact of cattle ranches, said 
Patrick Inglett, an associate professor at UF and a mem-ber of the study’s research team.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture selected UF’s pro-
posal out of hundreds of other proposals based on its plan to study mitigating greenhouse gas emissions re-leased from the soil at cattle ranches, Inglett said.
The goal of the research, which will last three years, 
is to build a model that can predict greenhouse gas emis-sions from soil on cattle ranches despite increasing tem-
peratures and more intense wet and dry seasons, Inglett 
said.
He said cattle farms have been difﬁ  cult to understand 
because of irregular variables and numerous “hot spots” of concentrated organic matter, like manure. 
“Microbes chew up organic matter like food, and they 
begin to release carbon dioxide just like we do,” he said.
“In a cattle ranch you have things like fertilizer and 
manure, which contain carbon and nitrogen, and the way you manage the system determines how the mi-crobes process it,” he said.
Inglett said the team will focus on nitrogen in particu-
lar because one molecule of nitrous oxide in the atmo-sphere is equal to 300 molecules of carbon dioxide.
Researchers will begin in the Fall, he said.
-Nealy KehresTUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
TOP LEFT:
Director of Black Affairs Vee Byrd delivered opening remarks at 
the vigil held in memory of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile on Monday evening. “I’m tired of being here in this space … talking about the injustices of my brothers and sisters, ” she said.
BOTTOM LEFT:
UF junior Wallace Mazon, 21, holds a candle alongside Tristan Worthington, 20, in memory of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile at the vigil held on Turlington Plaza on Monday. There were more than 200 students, faculty and community members in attendance. 
BELOW:
Kristin Kozelsky, 37, embraces Malik Davis-Pittman, 19, after closing remarks were made at the vigil held on Monday evening on Turlington Plaza. Malik and friends Wilanda Peck, 19, (left) and Royale McCloud, 19, held signs advocating peace and unity.
COMPASSION AND CANDLE LIGHTS
Photos by Alan Alvarez 
Alligator Staff NEWS FROM AROUND THE NATION
Eric Gay / THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Dallas Police Chief David Brown answers questions during a news conference on Monday in Dallas. 
Five police officers were killed and several injured during a shooting in downtown Dallas last week.
DALLAS (AP) — When Mi-
cah Johnson opened fire on Dal-
las police in an act of vengeance 
against white officers, he was attacking a department whose chief has been lauded across the country for taking bold steps to 
root out bad cops and repair rela-
tions with minorities.
Police Chief David Brown, a 
black man who pushed through the reforms despite resistance 
from the rank-and-file, boasted at 
a news conference Monday that crime, police shootings and ex-
cessive-force complaints against the department have all dropped 
dramatically on his watch.
“This is the best department 
in the country, and I’m proud to 
be associated with the men and women of the Dallas Police De-
partment,” he said.
Johnson, a black Army vet-
eran who served in Afghanistan, killed five officers in a sniper at-
tack Thursday that he portrayed 
as payback for the fatal police shootings of black men last week in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and suburban Minneapolis. The at-
tack ended with Johnson blown 
up by a bomb delivered by a po-lice robot.
“Dallas PD is paying the price 
for problems elsewhere around 
our country,” Mohamed Elibiary, 
a Texas-based Department of Homeland Security adviser, said.
Carlyle Holder, the president 
of the National Association of Blacks in Criminal Justice, had been holding up the Dallas Police Department as an example of a law enforcement agency effec-
tively addressing the problem of 
racial disparities in police work.
“That’s what made the killing 
of those officers so much harder to take,” he said.
Brown became chief in 2010, 
taking over a department that a generation ago had one of the highest rates of civilian shoot-
ings in the country. In 2012, his 
efforts to heal the rift between police and the black community took on greater urgency when the killing of a black man by a 
white officer triggered wide-
spread protests.
The chief responded by cre-
ating a public database to track shootings by police, requiring officers to undergo lethal-force training every two months in-stead of every two years and 
firing 70 officers involved in 
questionable incidents, includ-ing some who faced charges of excessive use of force.
The biggest backlash has 
come in the last six months, when Brown started a commu-nity policing program in mostly Hispanic and black neighbor-hoods. He began reassigning 
officers from desk jobs to foot 
patrols, a move that was praised by criminal justice experts but angered the police unions, who demanded his resignation.
“We need more boots on the 
ground, absolutely,” said Mike Mata, the vice president of the Dallas Police Association. “The problem is he was reassigning 
detectives from the office to back 
on the streets without any re-training. It’s almost like you set 
them up for failure.”
The dispute further strained 
a department that Brown said is 
one of the lowest-paid in the re-
gion, with new recruits making 
$43,000 a year.
While attending the Uni-
versity of Texas at Austin on a 
full scholarship, Brown became motivated to enter law enforce-ment when he returned to Dal-
las in the early 1980s and found 
friends from the neighborhood caught up in a cocaine epi-demic. Months after he became chief, his 27-year-old son, David 
Brown Jr., was shot to death by 
police after killing two officers.
“I’ve been black a long time,” 
Brown told reporters Monday. “We’re in a much better place 
than when I was young man 
here, but we have more work to do, particularly in my profes-sion.”
In the south Oak Cliff neigh-
borhood where Brown grew up, for example, 12 officers on the beat regularly introduce them-selves to residents — a dramatic 
shift for a community that had 
been accustomed only to seeing officers responding to a crime. One of the team’s priorities is to help convicted felons find jobs.
“We knew we couldn’t arrest 
our way out of the situation,” said Maj. Thomas Castro. Since the community policing strategy 
was instituted in January, vio-
lent crime in the neighborhood has dropped 10 percent, he said.
But it has been a gradual 
process of getting residents ac-
customed to community polic-
ing. Three young men appeared startled Sunday when an officer 
pulled up in his police car.
“I’m more afraid of the police 
after the shooting because people 
are going to feel like everybody’s out for them,” said Anthony Wil-
liams, a 23-year-old demolition 
worker who described being routinely sworn at, frisked and asked for identification simply for sitting outside. “We feel like 
the biggest gang is the police out 
here because they face no reper-cussions.Man shoots and  
kills five Dallas  
police officers
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — A lawyer 
for a Minnesota police officer who 
shot a black driver has said his client 
thought he was approaching some-
one who resembled a suspect in an 
armed robbery — an assertion that 
could be pivotal as investigators re-
view how the deadly traffic stop went 
down.
But outside observers say that 
claim raises some questions. Among them: If the officer suspected Philan-
do Castile in the robbery, why didn’t 
he treat the traffic stop as a potentially 
dangerous situation?
“There’s something inconsistent 
about what happened here,” said 
Albert Goins, a Minnesota attorney 
who is not representing anyone in the case. “That inconsistency has got to 
be answered.”
St. Anthony police officer Jeroni-
mo Yanez shot Castile Wednesday in 
the St. Paul suburb of Falcon Heights. 
Castile’s death — and another police 
shooting a day earlier in Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana, that also left a black man 
dead — prompted protests around the country, including in Dallas where 
five officers were killed and several 
more were wounded Thursday. Pro-
testers have been camped out in front 
of the Minnesota governor’s mansion 
for days, demanding justice, while 
dozens were arrested after a weekend 
march shut down a 6-mile stretch of 
freeway.
As the investigation into Castile’s 
death proceeds, those following the case are left to sort through conflict-
ing accounts and questions about 
how Yanez and fellow officer Joseph 
Kauser handled the traffic stop. Au-
thorities released no new information 
about the case Monday, and wouldn’t 
answer questions about the traffic stop, citing data privacy laws.
Yanez’s attorney, Thomas Kelly, 
told the Star Tribune that his client 
thought Castile looked like someone police had been seeking in a recent 
armed robbery. On Monday, Kelly 
told The Associated Press that he 
could not comment further.
Castile’s girlfriend, Diamond 
Reynolds, was in the car along with 
her 4-year-old daughter, and Reynolds 
streamed the gruesome aftermath of 
the shooting live on Facebook. In 
the video, Reynolds describes being pulled over for a “busted tail light.”
Reynolds told reporters last week 
that her boyfriend was shot as he told 
the officer he had a permit to carry 
and was currently armed while he 
reached for his wallet. She said Cas-
tile was having difficulty getting to 
his wallet and that his gun was in a 
holster in his pants.
Kelly told the AP Saturday that a 
broken tail light wasn’t the only rea-son for the stop. He said Yanez, who 
is Latino, was reacting to seeing the 
gun, not to Castile’s race. He did not 
elaborate.
Goins, an attorney who assisted 
the Castile family after the shooting 
but is not representing anyone in the case, said if Yanez and Kauser 
believed they could be stopping the 
robbery suspect, they should have 
approached the car differently: us-
ing lights, sirens and a public address 
system while they took cover and or-
dered the occupants to the ground at 
gunpoint.
“There’s a procedure every police 
officer I’ve ever run across knows about, called a felony stop,” Goins 
said. “They take people out of the 
car before they start to ask questions. 
They want to be cautious because the 
circumstances merit caution.”
Court records reviewed by the AP 
show Castile had no felony record but 
had been pulled over dozens of times since 2002 for a variety of minor of-
fenses including speeding, driving 
without a muffler and not wearing a 
seat belt.Yanez has four years of experi-
ence as an officer in St. Anthony, a predominantly white St. Paul suburb 
whose department also patrols Falcon 
Heights, where Castile was pulled 
over when he was shot.
The day before the shooting, state 
police released a bulletin seeking the 
public’s help finding a pair of black 
men who held up a convenience store less than two miles down the same 
street from where Yanez stopped Cas-
tile, in an area also patrolled by St. 
Anthony police. The men stole cash 
and cigarettes at gunpoint.
The alert for the July 2 robbery 
described one of the suspects as hav-
ing longer dreadlocks and possibly a 
moustache, and the second as having shoulder-length dreadlocks, a small 
moustache and some hair on his chin.
Castile had a goatee, which is 
visible in the video his girlfriend 
streamed, and dreadlocks.
In Reynolds’ video, a clearly dis-
traught person who appears to be a 
police officer stands at the car’s win-
dow, tells Reynolds to keep her hands up and says: “I told him not to reach 
for it. I told him to get his hand out.”
“You shot four bullets into him, 
sir. He was just getting his license and 
registration, sir,” Reynolds calmly re-
sponds.
In an interview Monday on MSN-
BC-TV, Reynolds said she decided to 
pull out her cellphone and hit record because she knew “it was going to be 
law enforcement’s word over mine.”
“I’m a nobody. And I felt by the 
police doing what they did, the only 
way to get my word justified ... was 
to post the video,” she said.
Yanez and Kauser have been 
placed on leave, as is standard prac-
tice when officers are involved in shootings. Kauser’s race hasn’t been 
released.Investigation of shooting in  
Falcon Heights continues10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.Available 8/1/16. $1,100. or $275 per  bedroom 
Call / text 239-370-8735    8-22-16-21-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. 1 avail. Immed. & 1 avail. 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   7-21-16-10-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Joshua 407-342-0617 / Charlie 407-810-3489     8-4-16-13-1
1 room, furnished, sliding glass doors to small privacy fenced back yard patio (du-plex). One female student roommate, dish-washer, washer/dryer in unit 2.5 miles from UF. High-spd internet included in $325 rent. 352 631 0737       7-26-16-10-1
Grad looking for male roommate postdoc, grad or mature undergrad. 2/2 apt, close to UF, avail Aug 1st, $350/mo + 1/2 util, con-tact Larry 443-939-6198. Located country village apt 2700 SW Archer Rd, Gainesville, FL     7-21-16-7-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF3BR/2BA w/ double sinks. All appliances in-cluding DW, W/D. Patio, 3 reserved parking places. $1200/mo. Call Claudette @ 352-359-5584   7-28-16-10-2
Luxury Apt: 1BR/1BA.
Granite counter tops, cable, washer, & drier
included.Close to Archer Rd, UF main
campus & Shands w/3 bus routes.
4076971571 or glorisapt.gville@gmail.com
7-26-16-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!1-2bd $325 shared ba, $375 own ba in 3/2 home. Peaceful 7.5 acres w oaks <10 mins to UF, Shands, Publix & shops! Spanish speakers encouraged. jrfong00@yahoo.com or txt 352.284.2654     7-28-16-10-4
AVAILABLE AUG 15 - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    8-22-16-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-15-25-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                     8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     7-14-16-7-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-15-25-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191      7-14-16-7-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
F/T receptionist for busy law firm. Communication, attention to detail, and multi-tasking skills a must. Previous experi -
ence a plus. Send resume tocarrillolawoffice@gmail.com      7-14-16-6-14
CSR (Customer Service Rep) needed part-time at University Air Center. Please apply online at UAC.aero.      8-2-16-10-14
Caregiver neededCompassionate caregiver needed for young lady with disability. Must be at least 18 years old, have a reliable vehicle,  and high school diploma or higher education.Over-nights and weekend shifts available.If interested, please contact Maryam Nikoonejad at (352)246-6039or Mr.Niko at (352)200-1017.     7-19-16-5-14Part time cleaner needed for home,apartments, and office cleanings m-fri 8-5, wed 8a-10p and sat 8a-3p. Must be a fast, energetic cleaner in good shape to per-form any cleaning task with no limits. Must own a reliable car and be willing to service Gainesville, Jonesville, williston, and mor-riston. Must past a background/drug test. Paying $8.50/hr and weekly pay ..If inter-ested please call 352-214-0868     7-26-5-14
Gator Dining is Hiring!Attending Job Fairs on July 14th & July 20th Please apply atwww.gatordining.com/employmentto participate. Make sure to select a ‘Higher Education’ position.    7-19-16-3-14
$ Seasonal PT Position $Football Game Day ParkingMust work a minimum of 2shifts every home gameContact: scoc-hire@ufl.edu       7-21-16-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatest
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
You need the money
to do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Your input matters!Help UF plan community outreach event 5 min research survey http://bit.ly/1YuT2SB Questions? (352)273-3690      7-19-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatest
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
ACROSS
1 Piece of cake
5 Forever and a day
9 Tony who was a
teammate ofCarew andKillebrew
14 Some bra fabric
15 Little bit
16 Put a lid on17 *On the same
page
19 Steakhouse
order
20 “You never know”
21 Where honorees
may sit
23 Miss Chile’s title:
Abbr.
24 Rowing pair
26 Ragged28 Gingerbread
house rooftoppers
32 Get really mad35 “Hey, sailor!”36 Glide above the
clouds
38 False step
39 Actor McKellen
40 *Auto buyer’s
consideration
42 Andy’s doll pal43 Eccentric45 Base lullaby46 Likelihood
47 Nods off
49 Multiwinner race
outcome
51 Say hello to53 Take down __:
humble
54 Silo filler56 Landlocked
African nation
58 Like a soldier at
attention
62 Pigeonhole
64 Online business,
and a hint to the
ends of theanswers tostarred clues
66 Muscat native67 Ready for picking68 “Very true!”69 Fee-based
entertainmentservice
70 Biblical garden71 Little shavers
DOWN
1 Like the chance
of winning alottery2 Grandpa’s love
3 In need of a
massage
4 Journalism
award
5 Prepare to fire
6 Sore loser’s
opposite
7 Volcano in Italy
8 “__ with flowers”
9 Mo. for scary
costumes
10 Bib-wearer’s
entrée
11 *Illegal activity
that threatens
elephants
12 Blow off some
steam
13 General vicinity18 Tail end22 Texas NBA
team, on
scoreboards
25 Civil rights icon
Parks
27 Prom attendee
28 Profits29 Company with
orange-and-whitetrucks
30 *Jamaican 
resort
31 Soup go-with, at
lunch
33 Fit automaker34 Auditing giant __
& Young
37 Ali boxing
technique
40 Deal with things
41 “Right this
minute!”
44 70-Across tempter46 “Just my luck!”
48 “Just a __!”
50 Regard
52 At that place
54 Hoofbeat sound55 “__ Lama Ding
Dong”: doo-wophit
57 Battery fluid
59 Humorist
Bombeck
60 Kept in the loop,
briefly
61 Bills with
Hamilton on them
63 Tyler of “The
Leftovers”
65 Fellows
By C.C. Burnikel©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/12/1607/12/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, July 12, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment
1. In 2015, Cincinnati’s Todd Fra-
zier became the second major-league 
player to win the All-Star Home Run 
Derby in his home stadium. Who was the first?
2. Between 1977 and 1979, a Pitts-
burgh Pirate won the N.L. stolen-base crown each season. Name the two Pirates who won three titles between them.
3. When was the last time before 
2015 that the University of Tennessee did not have a player selected in the NFL Draft?
4. Golden State’s Stephen Curry and 
Klay Thompson started in the 2015 NBA All-Star Game. When was the last time two Warriors started in an 
All-Star Game?
5. The Montreal Canadiens were the 
first NHL franchise to record 3,000 victories. Which one was the second 
to do it?
6. Where was the first Summer 
Olympics held after the end of World War II?
7. In 2016, Jason Day became the 
third multi-time winner of the WGC Match Play golf event. Who were the 
first two to do it?
Answers
1. Ryne Sandberg of the Chicago 
Cubs, in 1990.
2. Frank Taveras (1977) and Omar 
Moreno (1978-79).
3. It was 1963.
4. Rick Barry and Nate Thurmond 
started the 1967 All-Star Game.
5. The Boston Bruins crossed the 
3,000-win mark in 2016.
6. London, in 1948.7. Tiger Woods (2003, ‘04, ‘08) and 
Geoff Ogilvy (‘06, ‘09).
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 11, 2016 King Features Weekly Service25 Lost & Found
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Arman Hall and six other 
Gators qualified for the Rio Olympics. Read the story on pg. 16. "I don't say much but if you look at that schedule and you see that you play the 
Gators next..you better make sure them chin straps are tight"
- Bryan Cox Jr., UF defensive lineman 
@BEECox_UFTUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
ALLIGATOR AWARDS
Staff Report
In this edition of the Alligator 
Awards, we debate which female athlete was the best of the 2015-16 season. Sports writers Ray Boone, 
Matt Brannon and Alejandro López 
join alligatorSports Editors Ian Co-
hen and Ethan Bauer in a round-table discussion to debate the five nominees. Debates will go in al-
phabetical order by the writer’s last 
name.
Bauer: Alhassan led the 
Gators through a down year
Since taking over as head coach 
of Florida’s volleyball team in 1991, 
Mary Wise has built the program into a juggernaut. And right now, that elite status is dependent on 
Rhamat Alhassan. 
This season was considered a 
down one for the Gators, whose 
seven losses were the most suffered under Wise. 
Still, true to its usual form, the 
team made it to the Elite 8 before being ousted by Texas. 
In a down year such as this one, 
the 11-seed Gators shouldn’t have been one set away from the Final Four. But thanks to Alhassan, they were able to come that close. 
The then-sophomore was named 
an AVCA first-team All-American in 2015, mostly as a result of her blocking skills. 
She tallied 1.62 blocks per set, 
which was second in the nation. Her .422 hitting percentage was also among the country’s best, coming in at No. 9. 
Using her towering frame, the 
6-foot-4 middle blocker led her own team in both those categories and 
also in total points with 485.5.
In short, she was paramount to 
the team’s success. Without her, 
Florida’s season could’ve been sig-
nificantly worse. 
With her, the Gators came with-
in two points of a Final Four berth. 
Plus, she crochets. I know this is 
a best female athlete competition, but that has to give her some cool-
ness points. 
Boone: Graziano’s growth im-
portant to team’s success
Nicole Graziano dominated col-
lege lacrosse last season. 
The 2016 Big East Midfielder 
of the Year was the focal point of a Florida team that went 18-2 and 
swept the conference’s regular sea-
son and tournament titles. 
A redshirt senior, Graziano 
became just the sixth player in program history to score 100 ca-reer goals, doing so on Senior Day 
against UConn where she tallied 
three goals against the Huskies in a 
13-8 victory. 
The Mendham, New Jersey, 
native had a banner year across the board, setting career highs in goals (44), assists (17), points (61), ground balls (31), caused turnovers (22) and draw controls (45), leading the team outright in goals, points and draw controls. 
Her outstanding play put her in 
position to receive the Tewaaraton Award. On May 15, Graziano was named one of five women’s finalists for college lacrosse’s highest honor, becoming the fourth Gator to ever be named a finalist for the award. 
Graziano left her mark not only 
on the Florida lacrosse program, but on the University as a whole. 
Her considerable impact is why 
she was Florida’s best female ath-lete in 2016. 
Brannon: High-scoring fresh-
man deserves your vote
While the freshman from Greece 
may have a tenuous grasp on the English language, she has a strong grip on her role as a starter on Flori-da’s women’s basketball team. 
The team’s only true freshman 
came one assist away from logging the Gators’ third-ever triple double after scoring 14 points with 10 re-bounds against UCF in December. 
UF wouldn’t have had nearly 
the success it had this season if it weren’t for the three-time South-eastern Conference Freshman of the Week.  
After playing just four minutes in 
the season-opening loss to Temple, she played 28 minutes  — register-
ing 13 points, seven assists and four 
steals — in the Gators’ upset victory over No. 6 FSU that propelled them to a 12-game win streak. 
By the end of the season, Christi-naki was playing more minutes per game than anyone.
The 6-foot Athenian led the team 
in total points and compiled 106 as-sists, 29 more than the next Gator on the list. 
But not all of her accomplish-
ments show up in the stat sheet. 
The freshman showed veteran 
poise when she stole a last-second inbound pass from No. 12 Kentucky and drove to the rim, getting fouled and converting the three-point play to put the game out of reach. Who was Florida's best female athlete of 2015-16?
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan (center) high fives Mackenzie Dagostino (left) during Florida's 3-1 loss to Kentucky  on September 27 in the O'Connell Center. Alhassan was a pivotal piece in UF's NCAA T ournament run.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Jim McElwain walked onto 
the podium at the Southeastern 
Conference Media Days, turned 
to the rows of reporters in front 
of him and began at the end.
“Very disappointed in how 
we finished,” McElwain said on Monday. “Not something that we’re proud of and not something that I take very lightly.”
Seven months ago, McElwain 
and his players drove back from Orlando defeated.
Their Citrus Bowl appearance 
ended in a 41-7 blowout loss to Michigan, undoing an air of success that surrounded the UF 
program after the Gators made it 
to the SEC Championship game just 27 days before.
“It’ll be interesting to see 
how this year’s team responds,” McElwain said.
The second-year UF coach 
spent much of his appearance at the SEC’s annual Media Days in Hoover, Alabama, discussing his roster’s turnover.  Florida lost 
11 significant contributors after 
the end of last year, including NFL Draft picks Vernon Hargreaves,  
Keanu Neal 
and Jonathan Bullard, all of who played 
roles as part of 
a Florida team 
that won the SEC East. 
“I’m looking forward to seeing 
what this team is all about,” McElwain said. “I’ve been excited 
the way our older guys have grabbed these younger guys.”
The area that McElwain may 
be the most excited about is the 
quarterbacks room. Two transfers 
(Luke Del Rio and Austin Appleby) and two freshmen (Kyle Trask and Feleipe Franks) figure 
to vie for playing time, although 
anyone other than Del Rio winning the starting job would be seen as an upset.
The redshirt sophomore was 
McElwain looking to replace lost talent in second year
UF lost in the SEC title game last seasonSEE AWARDS,  PAGE 15
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15McElwain
She had the highest-scoring in-
dividual game for the Gators when 
she dropped 22 on Vanderbilt after scoring 11 consecutive points in a 
seven-minute span in the fourth 
quarter. 
The freshman scored in every 
game except one and led the team 
in scoring in nine different games, 
more than any teammate. 
Cohen: Sloan ends decorated 
career with record-setting senior 
year
As if all of it wasn’t enough — 
her 31 All-America selections, her six NCAA individual champion-ships, her three team national titles — Bridget Sloan bookended her col-legiate career with one final award 
last Thursday.
She was named the SEC Female 
Athlete of the Year, becoming the 
sixth female athlete from Florida to win the ward in program history.
And this year, no athlete in the 
nation was more deserving.
Sloan ended her final meet as a 
Gator, and her final meet competing in the packed, boisterous O’Connell Center with a perfect 10.0 score on her floor routine.
And after her All-Around score 
of 39.775 in that same meet, she became just one of three gymnasts in the nation to earn that high of a score during the regular season. Ex-cept she did it twice.
Sloan is Florida’s career leader in 
perfect 10s, a fitting statistic for the 
competitor who was nearly flawless 
over her four-year career, and espe-cially her last as a Gator.
Simply put, Sloan has dominated 
her sport like no other UF athlete has this year. 
Like no other athlete in the na-
tion.
López: Jordan drove Gators 
high-powered offense
Take one look at Savannah Jor-
dan’s 2015 stat sheet for Florida’s soccer team, and a host of figures jump off of the page.
The Fayetteville, Georgia, na-
tive notched a goal for each of the 24 games she played, 13 more than Brooke Sharp — the Gators’ best secondary scorer — and good for 
second in the country.
Those 24 goals accounted for ap-
proximately 39 percent of UF’s total, 
powering the SEC’s highest-scoring offense and leading the seventh-best attack in the nation.
She also posted 55 points, more 
than doubling her nearest teammate on the scoresheet and generating roughly a third of UF’s total offen-sive output on the year.  What’s more — the striker led her club in shots on target (64) and game-win-ning goals (4).
More often than not, the team 
went as Jordan did. And that boded well for them, too: Jordan was one of three Gators to play every minute of every game, a testament to her consistency.
Her season may not have culmi-
nated in a national title, but Jordan still lugged home hardware. Her on-field performances resulted in a third NSCAA first-team All-America selection, a second nod as SEC Of-fensive Player of the Year and a third spot on the All-SEC first team.
Make no mistake: Savannah 
Jordan was an integral part of the defending SEC champs’ roster, and was, arguably, the university’s most influential female athlete this past season.  
Who do you think was the best fe-
male athlete of the 2015-16 season? Vote online at alligator.org/sports.TUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
The redshirt sophomore was 
the clear standout in Florida’s 
Spring scrimmage on April 8, 
going 10-for-11 for 176 yards and 
two touchdowns. The second-most impressive quarterback was 
Appleby, who went 8-for-11 for 
80 yards.
“All four guys we have in 
that quarterback room, I’m really excited about. Luke being 
one of them who obviously was 
here with us last year, so he has familiarity with kind of what we’re doing,” McElwain said, 
“The way Luke and Austin both 
have kind of elevated the guys around them, it’ll be fun here in two-a-days to try to see who takes that step.”
McElwain addresses 
Callaway, Harris:
After Florida announced 
on March 8 that Treon Harris 
and Antonio Callaway were 
indefinitely suspended prior to the start of Spring practice, McElwain addressed the status of both on Monday, but didn’t give 
reasons for their suspensions.
The coach said that both 
players are on campus and using 
UF’s workout facilities, but didn’t give anymore information.
“Nothing has been resolved yet 
and there really isn’t a timetable on it,” McElwain said of their suspensions. “That’s about what 
it is right now.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg14UF coach gives no updates on suspended Harris, Callaway
AWARDS,  from pg14Florida's female athletes won multiple conference awards
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Bridget Sloan smiles during Day 2 of the NCAA Championships on 
April 16 in Fort Worth, T exas. In the final home meet of her UF ca-reer, Sloan posted a perfect mark on her floor routine.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain talks to his players following Florida's annual Orange and Blue Spring scrimmage on April 8. Of UF's four quarterbacks, Luke Del Rio received a bulk of the playing time.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan shoots during Florida's 2-1 loss to T exas A&M on Sept. 10 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Jordan scored 24 goals during the 2015 season, good for the second-most in the country .16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 12, 2016
OLYMPICS
NOAH L YLES, A CURRENT 
HIGH SCHOOL SENIOR, 
PLACED FOURTH IN THE 
200-METER DASH. 
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Seven more Gators are headed 
to the Olympic Games in Rio, but 
their performances were largely overshadowed by that of a future Florida athlete who didn’t even make the cut. 
Noah Lyles, who will run for 
the Gators next season, represented 
T.C. Williams High School in the 
200-meter Olympic prelims where he bested seasoned-pro runner Tyson Gay and finished first with 
a blazing 20.04-second race on 
Thursday.
Unfortunately for him, that was 
only the prelims. His 20.09 in the fi-nals on Saturday put him in fourth 
place, one spot away from ad-vancing to Rio. 
However, his 
finals’ time was good enough to break the 
31-year-old national high school 200-meter record by 0.04 seconds. 
While Lyles likely won’t be go-
ing to Rio, multiple Gators will be. Chief among them is Arman 
Hall, who finished fourth in the 400-meter dash last week. On Monday, USA Track and Field an-nounced Hall will be running in the 
4x400-meter relay. He is the only 
Gator track athlete who will be run-ning for the U.S. after also compet-ing for UF this past season. 
In addition, Kerron Clement will 
run in the 400-meter hurdles af-ter finishing first in the trials. Will Claye (triple jump), Tony McQuay (4x400-meter relay) and Christian Taylor (triple jump) will join him for the U.S. 
Outside of the American com-
petitors, Novlene Williams-Mills 
will run in the 4x400-meter relay 
for Jamaica’s women’s squad while swimmer Rex Tullius was added to the roster of the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
ebauer@alligator.org
@ebaueri
Future UF sprinter makes impression at Olympic trials
Lyles
