We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 86 FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016
Florida gymnastics to face 
second top-ten opponent  
Auburn is ranked No. 8, pg. 13
Research Roundup
Poinsettias and smoking addiction treatment, pg. 3
Police say unnamed man ﬂ  ashed genitals on sorority row
This is the second incident, pg. 5Muscle Meets Metal
Check out our mini photo story, pg. 8
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
NORTH LAWN NAP
Hope Fischer, left, a 20-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology junior, and Haley Wright, a 21-year-old UF health science junior, hang out on the North Lawn on Thursday. Wright said the two get together each Thursday between classes to fulﬁ  ll a tradition from the F Book, and the weather was perfect for a nap on the lawn this week.
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Sports Writer
Brooke Copeland always be-
lieved in divine intervention.
From birth, the Cleveland, Ten-
nessee, native was brought up as a 
Baptist in the “buckle of the Bible 
Belt.”
That’s why she was baptised in 
the Jordan River — the site of Jesus 
Christ’s baptism — as a high school freshman. That’s why she came to Florida to play basketball. And that’s why she walked into a hospital room at UF Health Shands Hospital on a December day in 2014.
God’s path brought her to Ann-
aRose Van Sciver, a then-10-year-old struggling to overcome cancer.
Over the course of the next 13 
months, the two shared a bond that would last through sickness and sweetness, cancer and dance par-ties, uncertainty and elation.
Through it all, the sophomore 
never doubted her place in Ann-aRose’s life, or AnnaRose’s place in hers.
“I know it was deﬁ  nitely a God 
thing that brought me to her,” Brooke said. “Knowing that I need-ed her and that she needed me as well.”
      
AnnaRose wasn’t the ﬁ  rst patient 
Brooke befriended.
Even before she began mak-
ing weekly visits to Shands as a UF freshman, Brooke was drawn to-
ward people who needed a friend.
Now a 20-year-old UF telecom-
munication student, she said her 
passion for reaching out to others stems from a childhood spent with her aunt Lynette, who has Down syndrome.
She watched as other children 
mocked her aunt because of her ap-
pearance.
“I would never viciously attack 
anyone because of her treatment,” 
Brooke said of her aunt being ridi-culed. “Although I wanted to.”
While her anger did make her 
lash out verbally at a few, her sym-pathy made her empathetic toward many.
As early as kindergarten, she re-
members making an effort to sit with her classmates who were lonely.
That compassion for the people 
around her stayed with Brooke throughout her life.
“It brings me joy to know that 
they’re not alone,” she said.
Brooke’s status as a basketball 
player at UF has put her in a unique position to impact those around her. From her weekly visits to Shands to her work with Girl’s Place, Inc., a Gainesville after-school program, she embraces the opportunity to go beyond the team’s community ser-vice initiatives.
According to head coach Aman-
da Butler, Brooke is the leader of the team when it comes to community involvement.
“She gives a lot of her time away, 
but for her, she doesn’t think of it as giving,” Butler said. “It’s something that she gets back.”
It was a team visit that brought 
Brooke to the Shands pediatric ward 
in late December 2014.
But it was her commitment to 
others that led to a connection with A SIST ER’S BOND
Athlete, patient form friendship
SEE ANNAROSE,  PAGE  14
CAMPUS
By Anayansy Hernandez
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is getting a new student support service 
program this February.
UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Academic Support received a 
$1.1 million grant from TRiO Student Support 
Service. The new support service will help low-
income, ﬁ  rst-generation and disabled students 
complete their undergraduate degrees, said Angeleah Browdy, the OAS director.
The TRiO SSS grant aims to increase college retention and graduation rates among under-graduate students, Browdy said.
The 5-year grant will fund 140 eligible UF 
students and provide academic advising, ca-reer counseling, scholarships, student travel funds, a free textbook resource library, printing services and personal development, she said.
“This grant will be a great help to students 
who want to excel in their academic program and further their education,” Browdy said. “Students have to learn to be resourceful.”
The program will also help grant recipients apply to graduate and professional school, she said. Students can meet with counselors and get free tutoring as well.
Kevin Reeves, the OAS assistant director, said he is excited about the new opportunities the program will bring to the ofﬁ  ce.
“The opportunity to get additional students 
to receive the support services offered through the Ofﬁ  ce of Academic Support will allow us to help a higher number of them,” he said.
Gabriela Pedrido, a UF linguistics sopho-
more, said she applied to the program to re-ceive academic support.  
“My GPA has suffered a bit due to pre-med, 
and I would like to get it back to a good stand-
ing,” the 19-year-old said. UF receives grant to help first-generation students 
“This grant will be a great help to 
students who want to excel in their 
academic program and further their 
education.”
Angeleah Browdy
OAS directorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
National Society of Leadership 
and Success
The National Society of Leadership and Success is hosting its first Welcoming 
Social today and New Member 
Orientation on Feb. 20 to wel-come all of its members and get a head start on this semester’s activities. The National Society of Leadership and Success is the nation’s largest leadership hon-or society. Students are selected by their college for membership 
based on a student’s academic 
standing or leadership potential. Candidacy is a nationally recog-nized achievement of honorable distinction. With 509 chapters, the society currently has 550,023 members nationwide. The soci-ety is an organization that helps people discover and achieve 
their goals. The society offers 
life-changing lectures from the nation’s leading presenters and a community where like-mind-ed, success-oriented individuals come together and help one an-other succeed. The society also serves as a powerful force of good in the greater community 
by encouraging and organizing 
action to better the world.
Weekend Warrior: Indoor Cycle 
SummitCome to RecSports on Saturday from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. for the Weekend Warrior. This Weekend Warrior will focus on 
the Indoor Cycle Summit. There 
is no registration necessary. It will take place in Southwest Recreation Center, Room 1. This interactive session will address common questions of cycling as well as how to integrate cycling into your workout routine.
El último aleteo de Andrea 
(Andrea’s Last Flutter)Marisol Salinas, a professor of dance at the Instituto Superior de Bellas Artes in Asunción, Paraguay, and an artist-in-residence for the UF Center for World Arts, will present an orig-inal dance theater recounting 
the story of Andrea Marquez, 
a survivor of the 1981 massa-cre in El Mozote, El Salvador. “Andrea’s Last Flutter” freshly encounters a tragic moment in Latin American political, social and cultural history through the magical embodiment of one woman’s quest for freedom. The 
performance will be held at the 
Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art on Sunday at 3 p.m. Parking and admission are free. Questions? Contact eking@harn.ufl.edu.Latina Women’s League
There will be a free Bilingual Story Time event Jan. 30 at 11 a.m. at The Library Partnership, 
situated at 1130 NE 16th Ave. 
For more infomation, contact info@latinawomensleague.org.
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing CompetitionWords on Canvas is a year-ly writing competition at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art 
for college students interested in 
inspiring museumgoers by writ-ing poetry or prose connected with a work of art. All UF and Santa Fe College students are welcome to participate. Winning contestants will be awarded Harn merchandise, and students may submit until Feb. 21. Entry 
is simple and free of charge. For 
more information, please visit our website at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas.
Condom Accessory Design 
Challenge for Sex in the Swamp 2016Grab a friend, get creative and 
transform condoms into the next 
must-have accessory. As part of its Sex in the Swamp event Feb. 18, the Alpha Lamba chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma is host-ing a condom accessory design challenge. Each first-place win-ning team member will receive a Fitbit Flex Wireless Activity & 
Sleep Wristband. Teams of one 
to three current UF students must register for the challenge by Jan. 29, and the design must be completed by 5 p.m. Feb. 16. For more information and to register a team, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2016/01/12/condom-acces-sory-design-challenge.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Reitz Royale-themed event tonight from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature human roulette, poker and blackjack tables and a UF Club Creole pageant. The event 
will also feature two showings 
of “The Intern” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free island-style food dur-ing Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to par-
ticipate. Students are allowed to 
bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Roe v. Wade anniversary and 
benefit showThe Gainesville Chapter of National Women’s Liberation invites you to join us for a Roe v. Wade anniversary and ben-efit show today at the Hardback Cafe. Although many believe it was solely this decision (via the 
Supreme Court) that gave us the 
right to abortion in the U.S., in reality it was years of struggle and grassroots organizing led by ordinary people that won this victory. Come learn more about the continued fight for abortion and birth control rights, enjoy some great music and financial-
ly support the movement! Doors 
open at 8 p.m., and admission is $5 to $15 as a sliding-scale do-nation.
Apply Now for 2016-2017 
Financial AidTo apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid at fafsa.
ed.gov. You can file a FAFSA as early as Jan. 1 each year. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive the results of your FAFSA from the federal processor is March 15. Apply well before March 15 to ensure the federal processor has time to analyze and send 
the results of your FAFSA to the 
UF Office for Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served ba-sis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most – and best – aid. In order for the Office for Student Financial Affairs to consider you for a fi-
nancial aid package, you must 
be an admitted student and have met the “On-Time” deadline. For more information or assis-tance completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your financial aid adviser. For contact information, visit sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions 
after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 86
HIGH  64° LOW  43°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Maria Bonaventura, Jessica Gonzalez,   
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo    
  Noguerol, Isabella Rodriguez
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloFRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
We are seeking volunteers for a study of pain in 
the face and jaw (TMD pain).
(352) 273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
600 NW 5th Ave
Gainesville
FL 32601
(352) 
384-1008Fades and Fros
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
 Researchers developing heat-
tolerant poinsettias
UF researchers are trying to improve poinsettias so 
they can grow in warmer temperatures. 
Dr. Jim Barrett, a UF Institute of Food and Agricul-
tural Sciences professor emeritus and part-time poinset-
tia researcher, said most poinsettias have a heat delay, which causes ﬂ  owering to take longer due to high tem-peratures. UF researchers have been studying poinsettias 
for years to improve sales.
Because of Florida’s high temperatures, the plants are 
very sensitive and usually don’t live after December, he 
said. 
Barrett said the plants are usually sold from early 
November to late December. Florida gets its poinsettias from breeders, but few species of the plant can survive in the state.
He said UF has been successful in educating poinset-
tia breeders to understand what the plants need to sur-vive when growing in warmer climates.
Poinsettias need sun and shade and require good 
drainage, Barrett said. Poinsettias don’t do well in tem-peratures less than 50 degrees. 
“The varieties are unpredictable in high-temperature 
regions,” he said.  
- Chelsea HansenPsychiatric treatment may help in 
quitting smoking
Researchers in UF’s Department of Psychiatry are trying 
to determine whether additional treatment can break the 
habit of smoking.
Dana Mason, the research coordinator, said she is using 
transcranial magnetic stimulation, a non-invasive treatment that has few side effects, to combat addiction. The study is investigational because this method hasn’t been approved 
by the Food and Drug Administration for treating addiction.  
Transcranial magnetic stimulation involves a magnetic 
coil that rests on someone’s head, Mason said. This sends 
magnetic pulses to the area of the brain where addiction to nicotine occurs. 
“People have a very hard time taking the medications 
that are prescribed to quit smoking, like Chantix, et cetera, that have a lot of bad side effects,” Mason said.
Researchers are looking for participants who are moder-
ate to heavy smokers and have smoked at least 10 ciga-rettes a day for a year. The participants will receive a daily treatment for three weeks and a weekly treatment for an-other three weeks. 
“Hopefully it may become another treatment to quit 
smoking that doesn’t have the kind of side effects that med-ication has,” Mason said.
- Cassandra Alamilla
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
AUDIBLE ARROWS
Jesse Frimmel, a 21-year-old UF senior, and Victor Viramontes-Pattison, a 20-year-old UF ju-
nior, cover “I Miss You” by blink-182 on the cajon and guitar on Turlington Plaza on Thursday. Viramontes-Pattison said the two marketing students are part of Arrows in Action, an alterna-tive rock band of four UF students.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
In 1976, the UF College of Vet-
erinary Medicine opened.
On Sunday — 40 years later — 
the college celebrated its anniver-
sary at a veterinary conference in 
Orlando.
Sarah Carey, the college’s direc-
tor of public relations, said about 
400 people gathered for the biggest party at the conference. It included cake and a slideshow of the col-lege, which displayed photos from the past and present.
“We brought back as many alumni as we could,” Carey said. “We had three members of the 
charter class.”
Carey said this was a kick-off 
celebration before a year of events.
Graduate student Chris Alling 
believes students can gain insight 
from the alumni who visit during these events.
“It helps the students get an 
appreciation for the resources we 
have,” the 24-year-old said. “It 
sounds like that the college has grown a lot.”
However, Alling hopes the col-
lege doesn’t change too much over time.“The school has a family at-
mosphere,” he said. “Everyone in 
the class knows everyone in the 
class. I hope that’s something that doesn’t change.”
Carey, who has worked at the 
veterinary school for more than 25 years, believes this year will have an impact on the students and fac-ulty who participate.
“A key thing is that an anniver-
sary is an opportunity to reflect, not just a party,” Carey said. “It’s a landmark — a milestone.”
@merylkornfield 
mkornfield@alligator.orgVeterinary school celebrated 40th anniversary SundayBy Ainesey Foira 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Wild Iris Books is hosting its second Free 
Store event Saturday at 2 p.m.
Free Store is an event coordinated by the 
owners, Erica Merrell and Shirley Roseman, in hopes of providing basic necessities to people 
who can’t afford them.
It’s held at the Civic Media Center, situated 
at 433 S. Main St., and caters to poor, queer 
and trans people, Merrell said. 
“Humans have so much stuff,” she said. 
“There are things in everyone’s closets, things in their house, things they got gifted that they don’t need.”
With donations from the public, the book-
store often fills the CMC with clothes, shoes, children’s toys and books. 
With help from volunteers, all the goods 
are transported from a storage locker before the event, and piles of shirts are folded after-ward. 
Once a month, Wild Iris Books invites ev-
eryone to the CMC to swap items or take what they need. 
Tyra Mishell, a UF anthropology sopho-
more, said she likes how the event recycles 
used clothing and reduces waste. She said 
she also likes how the event welcomes people from all backgrounds, especially those who need things such as clothes to stay warm.
The project started in the bookstore’s 
courtyard about one year ago, and it later found a home at the nearby CMC. In the fu-
ture, Mishell said she envisions the Free Store 
as a service event where people can also get food, haircuts and massages. 
For now, the event is held every fourth Sat-
urday until April. 
“Free Store first started off as two picnic 
tables,” Merrell said. “Now it is about two truck loads.”Second Free Store at Wild Iris
Jan. 22 Alumni Reception and Meet the Faculty 
at the Ocala Equine Conference
March 7 Alumni Reception at the Western 
Veterinary Conference
April 9 Open HouseMay 13 Sophomore Professional Coating 
Ceremony
May 27 Senior BanquetMay 28 CommencementUpcoming Anniversary EventsBy Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Students can sign up to run for 
Student Government starting this 
weekend.
The first day of qualifying and 
slating, the process that gives stu-
dents the chance to interview and 
run with a political party for SG Sen-ate, begins noon Sunday in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
“The purpose of slating is for par-
ties to determine the candidates that they want to run,” supervisor of elec-tions Erica Baker wrote in an email. 
Students can run with Access 
Party, Impact Party or as an inde-pendent.
“I think a lot of students don’t 
understand how easy it is to be in Student Government,” said Praveen Varanasi, the Access Party president.
Varanasi and Will Smith, the Im-
pact Party president, said students should put aside their beliefs and be 
involved with SG.
“No matter what you believe in, 
or what you have in mind, come meet us and let us know what you 
think,” Smith said.
Slating will be Sunday from noon 
to 6 p.m., Monday from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. and Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ball-room. The qualifications for Senate or for an executive position, students must be full-time, in good academic standing, free of conduct probation and delinquent financial obliga-tions to UF and must not have been 
removed from an SG office by im-
peachment.
Senate candidates must be en-
rolled in the college they want to represent. Undergraduates must maintain a 2.5 overall GPA. Gradu-ate students must maintain a 3.0 GPA or the minimum GPA for their program.
Executive candidates must have 
successfully completed three semes-ters, excluding Summer, at UF.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgSpring elections sign-
up starts Sunday
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
During a 5-kilometer run at the Commuter 
Lot on Sunday morning, students and police 
will work side by side.
University Police announced a partnership 
Thursday with UF’s Gator Emergency Medical Response Unit, a first-response service staffed by students, said UPD spokesman Officer Wayne Clark.
The unit, also known as GEMRU, will cover 
small events and, in the event of an emergen-cy, provide first-response care until profession-als arrive. They will not cover football games and other high-profile events, Clark said. He said Sunday will be its first assignment.
“If something does happen, they can start 
providing medical response to the situation,” he said. “It’s just to initiate a faster response to 
anything that happens on campus.”
Of the 44-member staff, 13 members are 
EMT-certified and 28 are certified Emergency Medical Responders, according to the group’s 
website.
The unit will be led by Dr. Christine Van 
Dillen, the medical director at the UF Depart-ment of Emergency Medicine, and UPD Chief Linda Stump-Kurnick, according to a press re-lease. 
GEMRU is an offshoot of Gator Emergency 
Medical Response, an organization that trains students to become paramedics and first re-sponders, according to the release.
The group will also provide its services at 
special events that don’t normally have emer-gency medical staff on site, according to the re-lease. During Sunday’s race, two UPD officers will be joined by up to four GEMRU members, Clark said. UPD will provide the group with first-aid bags, which will likely include ban-dages, gauze, tourniquets, disinfectants and other common items. 
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgGators partner with police 
for emergency medical aidLOCAL
“Free Store first started off as two 
picnic tables. Now it is about two truck 
loads.”
Erica Merrell
co-owner of Wild Iris BooksFRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
THEY WILL SOLVE A REAL-
LIFE BUSINESS PROBLEM.
By Andrea Benaim
Alligator Contributing Writer
Four UF students are headed to 
New Zealand.
The students will compete in 
the Champions Trophy Case Com-
petition in Auckland, New Zealand, 
from Wednesday to Jan. 30. UF’s 
team will get a business-related case study to solve. The case will be a problem a real company is having.  
Kaily Benedict, 21, Karthik Ra-
jan, 20, Sherman Wilhelm, 21, and Taylor Ziegler, 20, were chosen from UF’s Business Case Analysis course to defend UF’s first-place 
title, which they won last year.
Ziegler, a UF marketing junior, 
said the competing teams get a 
breakdown of the problem the com-pany is having, and they must de-velop a detailed solution for it.  
Twelve schools compete and are 
chosen based on their performance in other competitions throughout the year, said Horace Tucker, the associate director of the Heavener School of Business.  
“This competition is for the 
best of the best. That’s why it’s the Champions Competition,” Tucker said.
UF attends about eight or nine 
competitions a year, but this is one of the most competitive, Tucker 
said. Only winners and teams that 
placed in competitions in the previ-ous year attend, he said.
Ziegler said she thinks UF will 
do well.
“I’m pretty dang excited,” 
Ziegler said. “It’s not every day you get to go to New Zealand.”UF students to compete 
in New Zealand
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Authorities are searching for a man who 
police say exposed himself to women in 
the Norman Parking Garage, two blocks 
from campus.
Since Jan. 6, University Police have in-
vestigated two cases of a man exposing his 
genitals to women in the garage, said Of-ficer Wayne Clark, a UPD spokesman.
The first incident was not officially doc-
umented, Clark said.
The second incident occurred Jan. 14 
at noon when the man flashed a woman walking up a Norman Garage stairwell, Clark said.
Police believe the same man is respon-
sible for both occurrences. 
“He didn’t say anything to her,” Clark said. “He didn’t touch her. He was just in 
the stairwell exposing himself.”
The man had short hair and wore a blue 
jacket and pants. He’s probably between 
the ages of 30 and 40 years old, Clark said.
Gainesville Police responded to a sepa-
rate incident Jan. 14 after a man stood in the lobby of a law office and began to mas-turbate in front of the office’s secretary, ac-cording to a police report.
He stared at the secretary through the 
window, grabbed his crotch and then walked inside, according to the report. The secretary left to find help, and when 
she returned, the man was gone, according to the report.
GPD and UPD are working together on 
the investigation. 
Both departments have increased pa-
trols in the sorority row area, Clark said.
“Of course that is a crime,” he said. 
“You can’t just expose yourself to people like that.” 
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice say unnamed man flashed genitals on Sorority RowBy Renee Wilson 
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF assistant professor of ento-
mology received an $822,000 grant.
Professor Christine Miller found 
out she received the Faculty Early Ca-
reer Development award in Novem-
ber from the National Science Foun-
dation. She said she thinks she’ll have access to the money, which will go toward teaching and research, in February. 
She said she had already begun 
working on her proposal for next year because she didn’t expect to get it the first time.
Miller said she applied in July. 
She will use the grant to research ani-mal weapons using leaf-footed bugs. She’ll use the bugs as a way to ob-serve fighting tactics seen in animals. With the money, Miller said she hopes to help graduate students with research and bring other students to entomology research.
“There is nothing more reward-
ing than getting students excited about science 
and sharing with 
them,” Miller said.
Lauren Cirino, 
a UF evolution-ary ecology mas-ter’s student, said with the grant, 
students may be able to do research outside the country. 
Part of the grant will pay for 
course undergraduate research ex-perience classes, which will allow students more hands-on experience, Cirino, 32, said.
“We’re going to have a lot more 
funds to do a lot more research,” she said.UF professor receives 
grant to study bugsCAMPUS
Miller
This was the second incidentAndres Leiva / Alligator Staff
DANCE BEFORE YOU WALK
One-year-old Tianli Cheng watches Brianna Henry, a 17-year-old UF math freshman, perform tap 
dance as part of a Stomp the Swamp tabling event on Thursday afternoon on Turlington Plaza.“This competition is for the 
best of the best. That’s why it’s 
the Champions Competition”
Horace Tucker
associate director of the 
Heavenener School of BusinessThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWe’re tired, Gator Nation. On top of last week’s abys-
mal, regrettable series of unfortunate events, the Spring 
semester has gone into full swing, and we’re tired. Oh so 
very, very tired. 
If we were a lesser publication or a mediocre comedian 
like, say, we don’t know, Larry the Cable Guy, we’d proba-
bly top this editorial off with a joke like, “You know you’re 
a UF student when you’re taking 15 credits, involved with 
18 extracurriculars, and ya haven’t slept since Sunday!” *insert pained, canned audience laughter here*
But we’re not a lesser publication, and thankfully, we 
will never stoop to Larry the Cable Guy’s level. 
So, in the meantime, as we wipe away our tears and you 
settle in with our fine paper, please enjoy our somewhat witty take on the week that once was in this edition of …
Darts & Laurels
This week, liberals and pundits worked themselves into 
a tizzy over noted Tina Fey character Sarah Palin’s en-dorsement of the chatty, overflowing urinal and Republi-
can presidential nominee Donald Trump. 
Many saw this as the moment when American stupid-
ity achieved its glorious and bold singularity. Others saw 
a brave and courageous woman extending her hand to a 
strong, morally upright man.
To those who got outraged and posted memes mocking 
Palin and Trump on social media: What are you so upset 
about? Don’t you realize this is a good thing?! Let us ex-plain — in 2008, Sarah Palin’s profound stupidity managed 
to single-handedly sink John McCain’s presidential ambi-
tions. 
Her endorsement speaks to the narrow, limited demo-
graphic Trump is banking his presidency on. Palin’s en-
dorsement is a reassurance, not a threat. 
Palin’s brief time on the Republican ticket is a potent 
reminder that, at the end of the day, no matter how perva-
sive American idiocy may be, common sense and decency usually trumps all.
For allowing us to sleep a little easier at night, Sarah 
Palin gets an AR-15 brandishing, moose-killin’ Laurel.
On Wednesday, it was announced that Jan. 20 was Da-
vid Bowie Day in New York City. For those who don’t 
know, Bowie and his wife, Iman, were New Yorkers for 
several decades before his passing. 
It is not clear whether all Jan. 20s going forward will be 
David Bowie Day, but they sure as hell should be. We’d go on about why this is the case, but we’ve belabored the 
subject as is over the last two weeks.
For respectfully acknowledging an artistic titan and a 
much-missed human being, the city of New York gets a 
Laurel.
A Laurel goes to the scientists who may or may not 
have discovered a ninth planet in our solar system. Al-though we’re still bitter over poor Pluto’s fall from grace, as always, science continues to amaze.
Last, but most certainly not least, Oregon Gov. Kate 
Brown reached out to the federal government Wednesday and asked for their help in ending the ongoing occupation by “armed protesters” in the state’s wildlife reserve. We think it’s about damn time. A Laurel for Kate Brown, and 
a Laurel for common sense.Chronic relationship posting is exhibitionist
My Facebook is a cesspool of unwanted 
information. Whether it’s a paragraph-long status or a link to a BuzzFeed list called “20 things every 20-something should know,” my news feed always 
has something new for me not to care about. If Facebook didn’t occasionally facilitate conversa-tions with people I’ve lost touch with, I would probably delete my account.
Despite the diverse range of immaterial Face-
book posts, there is one particular breed that trumps the rest: the relationship post. Don’t get me wrong — it’s great if you have someone in your life who makes you happy. It’s also fine to celebrate that person by 
posting a few pictures here and there. Plenty of couples un-
derstand and implement relationship posting in moderation.  
Then there’s the chronic relationship-posters: those cou-
ples who practice no restraint in posting novel-length decla-rations of love and commitment whenever their boyfriend or girlfriend does something mildly noteworthy. “So proud of so-and-so, he made his first omelet today! This is why I chose such an amazing and perfect man to brighten my life.” Please, spare me.
If the posts weren’t bad enough, the pictures accompa-
nying them are worse. I know couples who upload photo chronicles of their painfully mediocre experiences on a daily basis. Derek and Jenny go to the zoo. Chris and Lauren kiss at Chipotle. Bonzo and Miffy file their tax returns. I can’t even check my messages without catching a glimpse of whatever today’s non-adventure was.
I realize this might seem a bit judgmental. Let me be 
clear: It’s not that I think chronic relationship posting is bad 
or wrong, I just think it cheapens something that is meant to 
be an intimate connection between two people. When you post every waking moment of your relationship on the Web, you take that connection and make it a public affair. Also, let’s be honest, most of these couples aren’t using posts as a medium to express their true feelings for each other. If that were the case, why wouldn’t they just give each other love letters? It’s more of a “Look at us. Do we look happy and well adjusted or what?!” billboard.
It’s all part of the “my life is so great” dog-and-
pony show of social media. Chronic relationship-posters display the same exhibitionism as chronic selfie-takers. In some ways, even more so. Self-
ie-takers are just advertising the way they look. 
Chronic relationship-posters are advertising the fact that he or she has indeed found their “other half,” and their “other half” is just as enamored. It all seems a bit performative, and it transforms a relationship into an online brand.
Chronic relationship posts are also problem-
atic because they often carry an undercurrent of territorial-ism. I always found it incredibly strange that attaching your 
name to someone else’s was a common dating practice. Why 
does it matter whether everyone knows you’re together? That you’re “taken” by someone else? Plus, there should be enough trust in place for the relationship to survive regard-less of whether you’re branded with a big, online “property-of” tag. Some even take this concept one step further. They verbally and visually create a combined identity for the cou-ples posting them. Separate people interacting in their own online social environments suddenly fuse together to form a 
weird, two-headed couple monster devoid of any autonomy.
Perhaps I’m being a bit hyperbolic here. I know it’s unfair 
to characterize all chronic relationship-posters as attention-
seeking or possessive. After all, some people genuinely enjoy sharing all aspects of their lives on the Internet. Some people are so swept away by their boyfriends or girlfriends that they want to shout it from the rooftops (or do the 21st-century Web equivalent).
That being said, I recently read a series of World War 
II letters from soldiers to their wives and girlfriends. When comparing their subtle but incredibly profound words to the embellished proclamations found in relationship posts, it becomes clear which is more sincere and why. One was meant for a single pair of eyes, while the other was meant for thousands.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics senior. Her column 
appears on Fridays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Namwan 
Leavell
opinions@alligator.orgLetter to the Editor
A Letter to Congressman 
Yoho Regarding the MOU
Congressman Yoho,
As you are aware, Congress passed 
House Resolution 2029, “Consolidated Ap-
propriations Act, 2016,” appropriating $1.1 trillion for the upcoming year in a bipartisan 
effort.
American policy-makers have the tre-
mendous ability to impact the support the 
U.S. gives to other countries. As a result, a signiﬁ  cant amount of money may be used to continue U.S. foreign aid to Israel.
UF contains one of the largest Jewish 
student populations in the country. Provid-ing monetary assistance to Israel for secu-rity is a meaningful way for the U.S. to help protect a land special to thousands of those 
students.
The current commitment to Israel has 
the U.S. providing $30 billion over a 10-year 
plan. With the approval of the recent appro-priations bill, $3.1 billion will be provided in assistance to Israel for this upcoming year. This will keep the current agreement 
on track; however the 10-year commitment 
will conclude in 2018.
As the president of Gators for Israel, I 
urge you to work with Congress and the 
next administration in the coming years to 
ensure that Israel is provided sufﬁ  cient aid to maintain its national security. Israel is one of our strongest allies in the world, and it is imperative to preserve this long-lasting and bipartisan relationship with the U.S.    
In the coming months of your campaign, 
Gators for Israel encourages you to keep in mind the upcoming memorandum of under-standing as you look to work with Congress and the administration in a bipartisan man-
ner.
Thank you,
Matthew Epstein
President, Gators for IsraelFRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
I’ve wanted to write about 
the Boycott, Divestment and 
Sanctions movement for a 
while, but I haven’t had a 
real reason that’d be worth 
the inevitable barely-coherent shouting in my direction.
Then came Tuesday’s release 
of a report by Human Rights Watch titled “Occupation, Inc.”  The gist of the report is businesses cannot both maintain a commitment to human 
rights and operate or invest in commercial 
activities within the territories Israel ille-gally occupies.
It seems fairly straightforward, but in 
today’s warped discourse, the very idea that businesses and people should divest from Israeli economic activities in the oc-cupied West Bank, or even the idea Israel is capable of doing wrong at all, is inﬂ  am-
matory and controversial.
Here’s where we enter the debate over 
BDS: a political movement that calls for 
businesses and consumers to boycott prod-
ucts manufactured in territory illegally oc-
cupied by Israel.
I continue to use the adverb “illegally” 
because it is an indisputable fact that, since 1967, Israel has engaged in activities in the 
West Bank that violate numerous codi-
ﬁ  ed and recognized standards of interna-tional law. Namely, the Israeli military has transferred Israeli civilians from Israel into 
suburb-style settlements built on land that 
has belonged to Palestinians for centuries, displacing residents and destroying farm-land and villages in the process. This isn’t merely immoral. It’s a ﬂ  agrant violation of 
the law — you know, a crime.
But the big point, where BDS comes into 
play, is that these crimes are facilitated by 
the practice of businesses and investors 
shifting production and investment activity 
into the illegally occupied areas on the Pal-estinian side of the border, expropriating natural resources and setting up industrial zones. A major reason for these transfers 
is the abundance of Palestinian laborers, 
who are hired at exploitative rates — of-ten as low as one-third of the Israeli mini-mum wage — with zero beneﬁ  ts. But the 
situation gets better for businesses: Since 
Palestinian laborers in the West Bank are subject to Israeli military law without any civil rights (totally not apartheid!), work-ers in the illegally occupied territories have 
no right to sue or even bargain with their 
employers.
Through multiple incursions of human 
rights and international law, Israel and the 
companies that pursue economic activity in 
the West Bank turn a proﬁ  t. The goal of BDS is to minimize or eradicate the proﬁ  t turned through peaceful boycotts and eco-nomic pressure. By disincentiviz-ing the occupation, BDS activists hope to bring about its end.
That is BDS. A peaceful and 
humanitarian effort using eco-nomic leverage to safeguard peace and human rights. The movement is growing in support 
from ﬁ  gures like Jewish Voice 
for Peace, Israeli human rights 
groups and humanitarian activists around the world.
The problem with BDS is the campaign 
is perhaps the most wildly misunderstood and maligned political movement of the 21st century, perhaps next to Black Lives Matter.
Now that it’s been embraced on many 
college campuses, BDS has been raised as a spectral vision of corrosive campus leftism, or anti-semitism, or as a front for radical 
Islamist terror groups.
This is not a coincidence; there exists a 
well-funded and well-organized campaign 
to intimidate and cajole BDS activists into submission. This is exempliﬁ  ed by Canary 
Mission, an uber-creepy McCarthyist web-
site that collects proﬁ  les on Palestine/BDS activists — be they Jewish, Muslim, Arab or black — with the explicit intent to smear 
them and hinder future job opportunities.
Many state legislatures, including Flori-
da’s, have passed resolutions condemning 
BDS. What is, in reality, a sensible econom-ic boycott against illegal activity has been 
smeared and silenced across the globe.
What I ﬁ  nd interesting about the BDS 
debate is that people who are usually quite 
quick to stand up for free speech are con-
spicuously quiet when the speech of BDS 
activists is silenced with legal intimidation and blacklisting. Folks who proudly pro-claim their disdain for political correctness’ silencing effects often have no problem 
silencing and attacking people who hold 
incorrect opinions on Israel. And, when France criminalized BDS activism alto-gether, there was nary a peep from the we-
must-defend-free-speech “Je suis Charlie” 
crowd.
“The Palestine Exception to Free 
Speech” is thought-provoking, especially as Israel’s Likud government continues 
its rightward slide to despotism and un-
democratic behavior. True to its name, the Likud (“consolidation”) party exploits the inherent tensions in Israeli society to 
its own beneﬁ  t. Economic pressure against 
its policies can embolden Likud’s opposi-tion in Israel. BDS is a pragmatic, humane and nonviolent way to reverse the tide and make Israel the humanitarian and multicul-
tural society it should be.
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Fridays.Don’t be rude about BDS movementColumn
Veteran newscaster Char-
lie Rose let out one of his rare nervous smiles on 
last Sunday’s “60 Min-
utes” during an inter-
view with actor Sean Penn. Rose, usually a distinctly eager, curi-
ous and captivated interviewer, 
recognized his interviewee had made a remark that would ap-pear to viewers as perhaps insensitive at worst and tone-deaf at best: “My article 
failed.”
What Penn meant by that statement, 
which would later propel the interview 
into becoming a Facebook trending topic, 
was he regretted that the public mistook 
what his intentions were in traversing the Sierra Madres in search of interviewing the world’s most notorious drug lord.
“You wanted to have a conversation 
about the policy of a war on drugs?” Rose asked.
“With the reader,” Penn affirmed.Sometime between his widely pub-
licized escape from a Mexican prison in July 2015 to his recapture earlier this year, Mexican drug cartel leader Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzmán Loera arranged a 
meeting with Mexican telenovela actress 
Kate del Castillo and two-time Academy Award winner Sean Penn. 
When Castillo and Penn finally arrived 
at Guzmán’s hideout, they found that he 
had primarily been interested in meeting 
with Castillo, with whom he had been keeping a correspondence since 2012. 
He did not even know who Penn was.  
Guzmán began his career in the drug 
cartel in Sinaloa, Mexico, before the age 
of 10. Now, at 61, he is the former leader of the largest international drug cartel in human history, which is responsible for 
shipping, by some estimates, more than 
half of all the illicit narcotics that enter the U.S.
“I’m drawn to explore what 
may be inconsistent with the 
portrayals our government and 
media brand upon their de-clared enemies,” Penn wrote in his article with Rolling Stone.
In his interview with Charlie 
Rose, he added, “I feel com-plicit in the suffering that is 
going on… I’m looking the other way. I find that equally complicit with murders 
in Juarez.”
Penn is right to be concerned. The drug 
epidemic ranks among this nation’s most 
pressing issues and, in terms of direct 
causalities, is even more fatal than many 
other highly publicized domestic issues. 
For example, since 2001, more Ameri-
cans have died due to gun violence in the south side of Chicago than in Iraq and Af-
ghanistan combined. 
On a nationwide level, between 88 and 
92 Americans die daily from firearms, and 
more than 120 die per day from a drug 
overdose.
Penn’s intention with his article was 
to not only highlight this, but also the in-
ternational relationship of the drug trade — for every American life ended, expo-
nentially more Mexicans die as well.
But perhaps what Penn did not foresee 
was that, by the ludicrous nature of the 
meeting — an American celebrity meet-
ing the international kingpin of narcotics 
on the run — he did not put himself in the best position to discuss any serious is-sues, and instead made himself the center of the story. To make matters worse, this 
is exactly the narrative angle Penn used in 
Rolling Stone.
“I’m really sad about the state of jour-
nalism in our country. It has been an in-
credible hypocrisy and an incredible les-
son in just how much they don’t know and how disserved we are,” he told Rose. 
Penn, in turn, calls his work “expe-
riential journalism,” reporting only on 
what he sees and largely ignoring much 
mention of the countless deaths his inter-viewee has caused.
“Again, journalists,” he said, add-
ing air quotes to the word “journalists,” “who want to say that I’m not a journal-ist: Well, I want to see the license that says that they’re a journalist.” 
Few people would claim Penn has no 
right to practice journalism, they just wouldn’t suggest questing through the mountains as a means of saving journal-ism from itself.
Neel Bapatla is sophomore English 
major. His column appears on Fridays.Dismal journalism: A Sean Penn storyColumn
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.org
Neel Bapatla
opinions@alligator.org
“The drug epidemic 
ranks among this 
nation's most pressing 
issues and, in terms 
of direct causalities, is 
even more fatal than 
many other highly 
publicized domestic 
issues.”8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016
HE WAS SENTENCED TO
 270 DAYS IN JAIL.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A judge sentenced a Gainesville man 
to 270 days in jail Wednesday after police 
said he beat his puppy to death in June.
On June 11, Meldwige Gregoire, 25, 
adopted a 4-month-old pit bull mix from Alachua County Animal Services, accord-ing to a police report.
The next day, Gregoire stomped on the 
puppy’s back and hind leg. He then kicked the puppy in the back multiple times be-fore dragging it down a hallway by its leash, according to the report.
Gregoire told police he was punishing 
the puppy, according to the report.
Two days later, Gregoire returned the 
puppy to the shelter wrapped in towels 
and said the puppy died in its crate.After an autopsy, investigators discov-
ered the dog was killed.
The puppy’s right eye and brain were 
severely injured. It also had two broken 
ribs, several broken 
teeth and bruising on its 
head and back, accord-
ing to the report.
Police arrested Gre-
goire for animal cruelty 
June 26.
In court Wednes-
day, 8th Judicial Circuit 
Judge James Colaw sentenced Gregoire to 
270 days in jail, 42 months of probation 
and anger management classes.
Colaw also prohibited Gregoire from 
owning animals, living with animals or 
working with animals, according to court 
records.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgCourt sentences man for 
animal crueltyBy Amanda DioGuardi
Alligator Contributing Writer
Four students stood on Turlington Plaza 
this week and encouraged students to sign a 
banner in support of peace around the world.
Those four UF students created Gators for 
Peace after the Paris attacks in November. 
While the group is not an official UF organiza-
tion, they hope to become one in the future. They currently meet and recruit members through Facebook.
The group, created by UF students Dean 
Sandquist, 20, Javi Garcia-Bengochea, 21, Brock Lilley, 20, and Sam Thompson, 20, now has more than 500 members.
Sandquist, a UF economics and political 
science junior, said the group wants to sup-port victims of tragedy and terror around the world.
“We are encouraging people to post ar-
ticles on the page to raise awareness and to tell their story, as I know some students are directly and indirectly affected by terrorism,” he said. “This Facebook group is an outlet for support.”Garcia-Bengochea, a mechanical engineer-
ing junior, said he hopes the group brings UF students together.
“Students our age are in this bubble where 
we don’t really see or hear what goes on be-sides the stuff that gains a lot of attention in the news,” he said. “I wanted to do something to lift people’s spirits and bring back the faith in humanity — that people are still inherently good.”
Once the banner is full of signatures, the 
group wants to display it on campus, Garcia-Bengochea said. When students pass the 
banner, he hopes they understand Gators for 
Peace’s message.  
“Writing down your name is symbolic,” 
he said. “It means that you and all the other students that signed the banner are here for victims of tragedy and terror.”
Gators for Peace will continue to hold 
events and promote peace, Sandquist said.
“There’s just so much more people need to 
know about and support in order for there to be peace worldwide,” he said. “We thought this movement would be a good way to show-case that.”Students sign peace banner
Muscle Meets MetalGregoire
CAMPUS
By Emma Green
Alligator Staff Photographer
UF held its 14th Biennial Mus-
cular Research Conference from 
Wednesday until today. The Ad-vances in Skeletal Muscle Biology 
in Health and Disease symposium 
is an international conference on studying and combating muscle wasting diseases. About 300 peo-ple were registered to attend the 
event, which featured 36 speak-
ers. This year marked the grand opening of a new institute dedi-cated to myology, the study of 
muscles. The new institute plans 
to make UF the muscle hub of the research community, said Dr. Mi-chael Good, the dean of the Col-lege of Medicine.
TOP RIGHT:
Dr. Michael Good, the dean 
of the College of Medicine, speaks to a crowd of muscle researchers on Wednesday in the Reitz Union Auditorium during the conference. He said it was important for the scien-tists to meet because groups advance human health faster than individuals.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Rows of bulletin boards lined the floor of the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Wednes-day during the conference. One hundred and fifty re-searchers presented their poster abstracts during the three-day event.Matthew Borkowski, a 33-year-old sales manager for Aurora Scientific, explains the use of various muscle testing equipment to researchers on Wednesday. He said he had a hand in designing some of the machines displayed by the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom during UF’s conference.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Available Aug 1st. Very nice 4BR/2BA house, 
wood floors, all amenities in kitchen, W/D provided. $1450/Mo, 830 NW 6th Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. Pictures at:www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-27-16-15-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Sublease 1/1 in 2/2 Townhouse in Museum Walk Apartments Females only. Lease is through July 30th w/ January rent already paid for! Amenities include washer/dryer, Internet, and utiles included in rent. Furnishings provid-ed, includes bed (with bed frame), desk, desk chair, dresser, and night stand. Walk-in closet. Parking included in rent. carinah10@ufl.edu    1-22-16-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-121For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
ACROSS
1 Cotton fabric
5 The Cavaliers of
the ACC
8 Parkinson’s drug
13 “What’s Going __
Your World”:George Strait hit
14 “Delta of Venus”
author
15 “Lincoln,” for one
16 “That’s terrible!”
17 Internet __18 Internet lesson
plan company
19 Cleaned
meticulously
22 Weather forecast
abbr.
23 Heated feeling24 Like a good-sized
farm
28 Disdainful literary
review comment
31 2013 animated
fantasy film
32 Wear (away)33 Fan mail encl.34 Ironclad39 Voice of Barney
on “TheFlintstones”
41 Like MacDonald42 Fertility goddess44 Malice, in law49 To such an
extent
50 __ Riddle, Lord
Voldemort’s birthname
51 Málaga title: Abbr.53 Classic Stones
song ... and ahint to what’shidden at theends of 19-, 28-,34- and 44-
Across
56 Take for granted
59 Debt-laden fin.
deal
60 Skyrocket61 Arboreal
marsupials
62 Plan
63 “Lonely Boy”
singer
64 Not relaxed at all
65 Pindaric __66 Hardy soul?DOWN
1 Cries of
contempt
2 Rashly3 Home city of the
WNBA’s Lynx
4 “And giving __,
up the chimney... ”
5 Yet to arrive6 Spectrum color
7 Standing against
8 Department store
section
9 “Camptown
Races” refrainsyllables
10 Decide to be
involved (in)
11 Entrée follower,
perhaps
12 Coolers, briefly
15 Commands
20 Put (together)21 Lieu25 Definite26 Early ’N Sync
label
27 Scratch (out)29 Rim30 Top-ranked
tennis star formuch of the ’80s35 Stars’ opposites
36 Chili rating unit37 “Stand” opposite38 Exploit
39 Bygone telecom
co.
40 Coastal flier
43 Barely runs?45 Ski bumps46 “Allow me”
47 Discouraging
words from an
auto mechanic48 More than
discouragingwords
52 Rich tapestry54 Muppet who
always turns 3
1/2 on February 3
55 Future atty.’s
ordeal
56 Blotter letters
57 Prince George, to
Prince William
58 Didn’t start
By Alan DerKazarian(c)2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/22/1601/22/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, January 22, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 WantedFRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10 hr + INCENTIVE + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
Apply at https://jobs.ufl.edu/
4-20-71-14
Experienced Cook WantedCafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required, 
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave. 
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information call EDEP office
@ 955-7766
1-25-16-5-14
Homework Coach for gifted 7th grader with dysgraphia. $10/hr. 4-8 hrs/wk. Flexible. Needs help with organization, study skills, time management, and homework. Send qualifications to KarenGill@aol.com    1-25-5-14
In need of a reliable worker to clean of-fices/homes/apts M,T,TH,F(after 5p) Sat &Sun(time varies) must have reliable transportation and be willing to drive to Morriston,Williston,Jonesville area...weekly pay 8.25/hr (gas will be distributed weekly)...must pass a background/drug check If inter-ested please call 352-214-0868   1-28-5-14
Backyard Water is seeking vibrant and en-ergetic retail personnel for its Gainesville store. We will train you in pool chemistry. 30+ hours per week. Apply in person – 7100 W University Ave (behind Home Depot).    1-28-16-5-14
Taking a risk to do what you love can change your life. A Gainesville start-up company is looking for a co-founder. This is a commit-ment. There are great benefits if the compa-ny succeeds. No one can predict what those might be. Send contact info and resume to info@overlandats.com.    1-29-16-6-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally!1-800-709-7364    1-22-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    1-22-1-14
ATTN: Drivers- $2K Sign-On Bonus$$RECENT PAY INCREASE$$Make $55,000 your first year!Newer KW t660 and t680'sCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com      1-22-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
AIRCRAFT DISPATCH Certification in weeks, not years. Grads work with airlines, airports, and others -start here with 12 week FAA approved training. Call AIM 888-242-2649    1-22-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    1-22-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!● LOCAL● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICALReach over 50,000 readerseach publication day.FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
15 Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida's Brooke Copeland 
shares a special bond with an 11-year-old former cancer patient. See the continuation on pg. 14AUBURN IS RANKED NO. 8. 
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
This season, the Florida Gators’ gymnas-
tics team is operating under a new theme: de-
signed to go far. 
Coined by first-year head coach Jenny Row-
land, this mantra reflects the squad’s ultimate 
goal of clinching gold in Fort Worth, Texas, at 
the NCAA Championships for the fourth con-secutive year.
The next step toward reaching that goal be-gins tonight against the No. 8 Auburn Tigers.
Opening Southeastern Conference competi-
tion, the Gators are set to trek 318 miles north-west to compete at Auburn Arena. 
Facing off for the first time since their 
197.850-195.625 victory over the Tigers at the 2015 NCAA Super Six, the No. 1-ranked Gators will look to extend their commanding 69-11 all-time series lead over Auburn.
History aside, competing at Auburn pro-
duces a certain type of atmosphere, one that 
Florida gymnasts are eager to feed off of. 
“I think this will honestly be an incredible 
opportunity for every class to kind of shine in their own way,” senior Bridget Sloan said Wednesday. 
“Auburn is one of my favorite places to 
compete. Their arena is so nice, their fans are 
great — their fans are so funny, they get so into it.”
However, for one member of Florida’s team, Friday’s 8:30 p.m. meet serves as a homecoming.
Jenny Rowland — former assistant coach 
for the Tigers from 2010-15 — returns to face her former club for the first time since joining the Gators, and with UF staring down the bar-rel of its second consecutive contest against a national top-10 opponent, this showdown car-ries some extra weight.
“I think it’s going to be a great meet for her, 
just coming back to her home,” sophomore 
Kennedy Baker said. 
“And, being a coach for us, I think it’s going 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida softball picked to win SEC Title
The UF softball team was picked to win the SEC championship by the 
conference's head coaches in a preseason poll.By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
With No. 22 Florida trailing Ala-
bama by four points with about six 
minutes to play, Carlie Needles 
dished the ball to Simone West-
brook.
Over the last 15 minutes, the 
Gators had watched their lead and 
their momentum disappear.
But with the game on the line, 
Westbrook gripped the ball, exhaled and watched as her three-point shot 
swished through the net.
Eleanna Christinaki knocked 
down a pair of free throws a min-ute later to give the Gators a 70-69 
lead. From there, Florida outscored 
Alabama 10-3 to cap off an 80-72 vic-tory in front of an announced crowd of 1,305.
“It’s turning out to be that that’s 
kind of Florida basketball this year,” UF coach Amanda Butler said. “Do what you’ve got to do in the fourth quarter no matter how ugly it looks 
or no matter how wonderful it’s been.”
The Gators (16-3, 4-2 Southeast-
ern Conference) shot 54.2 percent 
from the field as a team, but Chris-
tinaki and Westbrook led the charge.
Christinaki — the freshman from 
Athens, Greece — scored a team-
high 16 points, including a 6-of-7 mark from the free-throw line.
Westbrook — the junior guard 
known more for her aggressive na-ture on defense than her offensive prowess — put up 11 points on 
4-of-8 shooting, her first double-digit 
scoring effort in seven games. She was also one of six Florida players with at least six points against the Crimson Tide.
And while she finally found her 
groove on offense, Westbrook didn’t skip a beat on defense, bringing down six rebounds and stealing four 
balls in timely fashion.
Her final steal, which came with 
just under two minutes to go, came 
as Westbrook dove to the ground to Late surge lifts UF to win
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF's Simone Westbrook goes for a layup during Florida's 80-72 win over Alabama on Thursday in the 
O'Connell Center.
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
Two wins in a row is nothing for Florida to celebrate.
“We have no peps in our steps. At all,” Mike White 
said.
The Auburn Tigers come to town Saturday night fresh 
off two straight Southeastern Conference wins of their own — first over Kentucky and then over Alabama, both at home. Florida and Auburn will tip off at 8 p.m. in the O’Connell Center, where the Gators have won their last 10 meetings with the Tigers.
Auburn (9-8, 3-3 SEC) boasts a barrage of talented 
weapons led by junior guard Kareem Canty. The Harlem, New York, product leads the Tigers with 19.4 points per game, tied for third-best in the SEC and has scored a com-
bined 51 points over his last two outings. Senior forward 
Cinmeon Bowers is coming off a 20-point, 18-rebound per-formance against the Crimson Tide and is tied for third in 
the conference in rebounds per game with 9.4.
As a team, Auburn averages 9.8 made three-point field 
goals per game, the most in the SEC. Florida checks in at seventh in the conference in the same category with 6.9 triples per game.
However, the Gators (12-6, 4-2 SEC) have held their 
own this season against teams similar to Auburn — a team with a powerful offense led by one primary scoring weapon.
Florida forced Ben Simmons to turn the ball over eight Men's basketball looking to keep win streak alive against AuburnSEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE GYM,  PAGE 15The Gators have won two in a row
Florida gymnastics set to face second top-10 opponent
“I think this will honestly be an 
incredible opportunity for every class to 
kind of shine in their own way.”
Bridget Sloan
UF gymnastics seniorWOMEN'S BASKETBALLAnnaRose.
And it was their friendship that 
kept Brooke coming back.
•   •   •
Hours after she was born, Ann-
aRose stopped breathing.
There was no preparation for this 
moment. Every sonogram and doc-
tor’s appointment showed Cean and 
Jim Van Sciver that their first child 
would be born healthy.
But two hours after her birth on 
May 5, 2004, AnnaRose turned blue.
The 5-pound newborn was giv-
en oxygen and was able to breathe again, but the doctors at Millard Fill-more Suburban Hospital in upstate New York weren’t equipped to help 
beyond childbirth.
Cean didn’t get to hold her 
daughter before she sped away in an 
ambulance to a hospital in Buffalo.
A cardiologist examined her heart 
more thoroughly and determined that AnnaRose’s breathing difficulty came from two rare heart defects: hypoplastic left heart syndrome and 
double outlet right ventricle.
The first meant the left side of her 
heart was severely underdeveloped. 
The second meant blood flowed from only one side of her heart in-stead of from two.
The defects were treatable, but 
AnnaRose’s doctors feared she wouldn’t make it through surgery.
The day after she was born, a 
priest blessed her life-to-come in a baptismal ceremony. He then blessed her in preparation for death.
Two weeks after the defects were 
identified, AnnaRose had her first open-heart surgery.
It wouldn’t be her last.
Over the next five years, Ann-
aRose would undergo three surger-
ies. The last, a Fontan procedure, was supposed to be a relatively long-term solution.
“We have patients that, depend-
ing on a lot of other factors, the Fon-tan has worked for a long time,” said Jay Fricker, AnnaRose’s doctor at UF 
Health’s Congenital Heart Institute.
While the procedure success-
fully enabled her one working main 
artery to do the work of two, Ann-aRose was still constantly sick.
She often had pneumonia and 
bronchitis, eventually developing a rare condition called plastic bron-chitis as a direct result of the Fontan 
procedure.
Because they weren’t familiar 
with the sickness, her doctors in 
Buffalo couldn’t treat her anymore.
All they could determine was 
that AnnaRose was healthier dur-ing the summer months. Running out of options — and potentially out of time — the Van Scivers moved to 
the year-round warmth of Kissim-
mee, Florida, in 2011.
They left AnnaRose’s grandpar-
ents, cousins and aunt behind.
“It was very difficult,” Cean said. 
“She misses being with her family.”
Despite the heat, a new series of 
problems surfaced: stomach issues, bouts with anxiety and more heart complications.
Shortly before Christmas 2012, 
her doctors at the Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children in Orlando referred AnnaRose to Shands to be evaluated for a transplant.
It was a last resort for her par-
ents.
“We were pushing it back and 
thought no, she doesn’t really need a transplant, because she was healthy most of the time,” Cean said.
But the doctors at Shands con-
firmed the family’s fears: Her Fon-tan procedure was failing. With that 
diagnosis, AnnaRose was finally put 
on the transplant list in March 2013.
In June, she started to complain 
of stomach pains, saying that these were different than the ones she’d been having.
Her parents rushed her to the 
emergency room. AnnaRose was al-ready vomiting.
When she arrived at the hospi-
tal, doctors discovered she had gone into heart failure.
She lived at the hospital for the 
next nine months and waited for a transplant. As the waiting wore on, she became so sick that she could barely walk and was rarely awake.
Almost a year after being added 
to the registry, AnnaRose received the heart she had needed since the day she was born.
But with that solution came a 
new problem.
Nine months after the transplant, 
doctors realized the side effects of Prograf, the drug AnnaRose had tak-en since she received the transplant 
in order to help her body accept the 
new organ.
In purposely suppressing her im-
mune system, the drugs had paved the way for the development of post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease.
Armed with a functioning heart, 
the 10-year-old would now battle 
cancer.
On a day in late December 2014, 
AnnaRose found out that the cancer 
was malignant and would require chemotherapy.
On that same day, she met 
Brooke Copeland.
•   •   •
When Brooke walked into the 
room, AnnaRose didn’t see a basket-ball player.
She saw a princess.With a single blonde braid down 
to her waist, Brooke reminded Ann-aRose of Elsa, a princess from the movie “Frozen.”
Greeted with “Elsa,” Brooke 
played along, calling AnnaRose Anna, after Elsa’s younger sister.
The fictional sisterhood would 
serve as the foundation for their friendship, which would eventually 
evolve into a sisterhood of its own.
“AnnaRose calls me her sister,” 
Brooke said. “She tells everyone that 
I’m her sister.” 
Usually shy around strangers, 
AnnaRose immediately connected with Brooke. But the high-spirited 10-year-old didn’t give her any in-dication of the severity of her situ-
ation.
A few weeks later, Brooke found 
out that, on the same day they’d 
met, AnnaRose had been diagnosed with cancer.
Knowing what was to come, Brooke tried to give AnnaRose the childhood memories she never had.
While she was in the hospi-
tal, AnnaRose told her parents she wanted to see a basketball game when she got out. Brooke and the rest of the women’s team made that happen just days after they met AnnaRose.
After AnnaRose attended the 
2014 Gator Holiday Classic, Brooke introduced her to other sports like 
volleyball, lacrosse and soccer.
While creating childhood memo-
ries was significant, their time to-
gether took on more meaning when AnnaRose was hospitalized.
On Oct. 30, 2015, AnnaRose’s 
parents drove her to the emergency room because they believed she had pneumonia.
As soon as Cean texted her, 
Brooke drove to the hospital.
Despite her pneumonia-like 
symptoms, AnnaRose was over-joyed to see Brooke. The two passed the time in the ER waiting room by playing on the computer and talk-ing. At one point, Brooke suggested going to get food for the family.
AnnaRose was quick to interject.
“Mom, can you go get the food? 
Brooke can’t leave me,” Brooke re-
membered AnnaRose saying.
And despite having an 8 a.m. 
basketball practice the next day, Brooke couldn’t say no when Ann-aRose asked her to spend the night.
Sharing a children’s hospital bed 
isn’t comfortable for anyone, let 
alone a 6-foot-2 basketball player. 
But for AnnaRose, Brooke was will-ing to do just about anything.
She made sure to leave time for 
their weekend outings and worked around her 17-credit class schedule and basketball commitments to tu-tor AnnaRose.
Sometimes, despite the platform 
she’s been given, Brooke has trouble justifying playing basketball when she could be tutoring AnnaRose and helping other children.
“It’s very difficult because my 
heart is in that,” she said.
•   •   •
Over the course of seven weeks, 
Brooke was there for the duration of AnnaRose’s battle with cancer — in-cluding the end.
The whole family thought Feb. 8 
was just another doctor’s appoint-ment.
But, for once, it didn’t end with a 
discouraging diagnosis. The cancer was gone.
“I’m cancer-free!” she yelled as 
she jumped on Brooke and wrapped her legs around her waist.
Amid cheers, AnnaRose ran 
through the hospital’s hallways and triumphantly threw her hospital bracelet in the trash.
To celebrate, Brooke took her out 
for the night.
At basketball practice, the rest of 
the team congratulated AnnaRose on her cancer-free status.
When practice finished, Brooke 
took AnnaRose out for ice cream and donuts — two foods that she could rarely have during her treat-ment.
The night finished at Brooke’s 
apartment, where they stayed up 
singing and making dance videos.
Having overcome multiple open-
heart surgeries, heart failure and 
countless other medical problems, AnnaRose could now celebrate beat-ing another life-threatening condi-tion.
Only this time, she could cel-
ebrate with a friend.
“She’s just amazing,” Brooke 
said. “I can’t even explain.”
@ebaueri 
ebauer@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016
ANNAROSE,  from pg 1Brooke said fate brought her to AnnaRose
Courtesy to the Alligator
Knowing what was to come, Brooke tried to give AnnaRose the 
childhood memories she never had.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Brooke Copeland and AnnaRose stand side-by-side in Florida’s Basketball Practice Complex. to be awesome for her just to see her 
old team, and then us, and just how we do against each other.”
Heading into the contest, both 
squads boast similar records.
Having already begun SEC com-
petition, Auburn holds a 2-1 record (1-1 SEC), following up a season-opening two-win burst against Ore-gon State and Kentucky followed by  a 196.875-196.075 loss to then-No. 6 Alabama. 
Florida (2-0, 0-0 SEC) looks to 
sustain a winning streak of its own, 
bringing reigning SEC Freshman of 
the Week Alicia Boren and Gymnast of the Week Sloan into the fray.
The pairing of Boren and Sloan 
gives the Gators a solid one-two punch in the all-around, as the duo tops Road to Nationals’ all-around leaderboards in average score.
In spite of their stranglehold on the national charts — Florida gym-
nasts place in the top-two nationally 
in four of five rankable categories (all-around, vault, bars, beam) and top-four in all of them — the athletes recognize what skills they need to sharpen in order to be at their best.
Heading into the thick of a re-
maining regular season schedule that features dates against seven 
top-20 opponents, every fraction of 
a point matters.
“My main thing is my landings,” 
Boren said. 
“I’m constantly taking steps 
back or taking hops forward trying to stick, so I need to figure out how to just do the skill the right way and wait for the landing to come.
“I definitely have a lot of things to 
improve to get better, but I think it’s a good start.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgscoop up the ball and was fouled by Alabama’s 
Karyla Middlebrook
“Those are the things our team really feeds 
off of,” Butler said. 
“The three’s great, no question, but a play 
where it’s just all-out, ‘I’m going to sacrifice my body for the team,’ those are the things 
that really get us fired up.”
Florida cruised to a 46-31 lead at halftime 
behind a pair of scoring runs.
The first, a 15-4 outburst in the opening 
quarter that gave Florida an early edge.
The second, an 18-3 run late in the second 
quarter where six Florida players got on the scoreboard.
But as has been the norm as of late, the 
Gators fell flat in the third quarter. 
Led by Hannah Cook’s 11 points, Alabama 
(13-6, 2-4 SEC) outscored Florida 30-15 in 
the frame to tie the game at 61-61, the fourth 
straight contest where the Gators were out-scored in the third quarter.
“The long and short of it is whether it’s the first quarter, the third quarter or the fourth quarter, you’re going toe-to-toe with someone 
who wants to beat you really badly and some-
one who’s capable of doing it,” Butler said.
Tack on 36 turnovers, which tie for the 
third-most committed in a game in program history, and the game easily could have rolled 
in Alabama’s favor down the stretch if not for 
a 15-0 run in the fourth quarter.
“We’ve got to control the ball, handle the 
ball,” said junior Ronni Williams, who scored 
13 points against Alabama. 
“But our fight and how aggressive we play 
and our toughness is there.”
Now, as they prepare to face Missouri on 
Saturday in their first road outing in almost two weeks, the Gators know their game needs 
to be cleaned up.
“To still be able to win and find a way to 
win in the face of that I think is pretty incred-
ible and speaks to the spirit of this team,” But-
ler said.
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.org
times and foul out of the game in the Gators’ 68-62 win over LSU. Stefan Moody, the leading scorer 
in the SEC, was held to 3-of-10 
from beyond the arc and had six turnovers in Florida’s 80-71 win 
over Ole Miss.
This time, the challenge will 
be Canty.
“I think Canty probably shoots 
it even better (than Moody). He 
can create it for himself even better,” White said. 
“Different type athletes, but 
they’re both guys that demand 
the brunt of the scouting report 
for sure.”
Junior forward Justin Leon, 
who was praised for his defen-
sive work against Simmons, said 
he thinks the team’s experience dealing with those specific offen-sive weapons has prepared them well and will help when it comes 
to guarding Canty.  
“It helps because guarding 
high-level guys like that, you get 
the experience of seeing how it 
is,” Leon said.
 “Then if you do a good job 
on them, it builds your confi-
dence and makes you feel like you can guard a lot of guys…I 
mean I don’t think about it. I just 
look at it as playing basketball, guarding somebody.”
Florida will have to limit 
Canty if it hopes to keep up with Auburn. 
White knows the Gators 
didn’t play their best basketball on Tuesday night in their win 
over Mississippi State and said 
there wasn’t much to celebrate besides the end result.    
He’s looking for improve-
ment on Saturday night against a much tougher offensive oppo-nent.
“We’ll expect a team com-
ing in here playing with a lot of 
confidence. Heck, they have a 
bigger win than any of our wins this season with the win against Kentucky,” White said.“They’re shooting the ball 
well. We’ll have to play with edge. We’ll have to be excited about it. We’ve got to find a way 
to get better against Auburn.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
UF preparing for AU's high-scoring Canty Florida will use meet vs. 
Auburn to improveThe Gators had 36 turnovers
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
UF's Justin Leon tips the ball into the net during Florida's 81-78 
win over Mississippi State on Jan. 19 in the O'Connell Center.
HOOPS,  from pg 13
GYM,  from pg 13W-HOOPS,  from pg 13
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Bridget Sloan performs on balance beam during Florida's win against UCLA on Jan. 15 in the O'Connell Center.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF celebrates after an Alabama foul during Florida's 80-72 win over the Crimson Tide in the O'Connell Center.
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016
By Brian Lee
Sports Writer 
Depth and versatility are two qualities 
essential to any championship team. 
Utility players with the skills to play 
multiple positions provide a manager ﬂ  ex-
ibility, allowing the best lineup to be put forward every night. Here are three all-around assets to watch for the Gators in 2016. 
Taylore Fuller, senior 
Though she primarily played left ﬁ  eld 
and catcher during her ﬁ  rst two seasons, Fuller made the transition to third base as 
a junior, committing only eight errors in 66 
games while compiling a respectable .963 ﬁ  elding percentage. 
At the plate, she had a knack for produc-
ing big hits with runners on base. 
After recording 19 RBIs as a freshman 
and 34 as a sophomore, Fuller had a break-out season in 2015, hitting .324 with run-ners in scoring position and driving in a 
career-best 56 runs. 
She also notched eight multi-RBI and 11 multi-hit contests, including a game against 
LSU on March 14 in which she hit three 
home runs and drove in eight. 
Fuller’s four grand slams in 2015 — tied 
for the second-highest total ever in a sin-
gle season — gave her a total of eight for her career, good enough for third-most in 
NCAA history.  
After logging a .413 on-base and .558 
slugging percentage last season, look for 
Fuller to continue to contribute signiﬁ  cant-
ly in 2016. 
Kayli Kvistad, sophomore 
The Lake City, Florida, native mostly 
split time at ﬁ  rst base with Taylor Schwarz 
in 2015, starting 37 times and seeing action 
in 60 games. 
Along with her .454 slugging percentage, 
Kvistad’s 36 RBIs led the freshman class. 
Three times last season, she racked up 
four RBIs in a game — against Jacksonville, 
Mercer and Mississippi State. 
But while Kvistad was solid offensively, 
she was ﬂ  awless on defense. 
With an unblemished 1.000 ﬁ  elding per-
centage, she became the ninth player in program history to ﬁ  nish a season perfect in the ﬁ  eld, not committing an error in 105 opportunities. 
Kvistad’s signature moment came in the 
ﬁ  rst game of the 2015 Women’s College World Series. 
Up 1-0 in the bottom of the third against 
Tennessee, she hit a two-run homer that 
extended Florida’s lead in a game it would 
go on to win, 7-2. 
As Kvistad enters her sophomore sea-
son, look for her to build off the success 
of her rookie campaign with an increase in 
playing time and productivity. 
Read the rest of the story online at www.
alligator.org/sports.
@brianlee_17 
blee@alligator.org Florida utility players look to make impact in 2016 seasonSOFTBALL
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Florida’s T aylore Fuller bats during 
UF’s 7-1 win over Kansas on Feb. 21, 2015.