We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 4 THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
Florida soccer has tough road 
ahead
UF faces No. 5 Stanford on Friday, pg. 17 
Red Hot Chili Peppers tribute band to hit GNV
The band performs at the High Dive tonight, pg. 9
University Galleries to open new exhibits
There are two exhibits from Miami-based artists, pg. 12UF teaching farm expands
Faculty members can teach their students, pg. 3
  pg. 3
        By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF’s Student Government will 
replace on-campus phone charging stations next month. 
SG is removing ﬁ  ve charging 
stations and replacing them with four updated ones, said Ty Robare, the Action SG chairman. The sta-tions, which will be purchased for 
$7,180, will be located at Library 
West, Marston Science Library, the 
Hub and the Reitz Union. 
They’ll also come with lock-
ers to secure phones while they 
charge. 
Previously, stations were at Li-
brary West, the Hub, the Reitz, Stu-
dent Recreation and Fitness Center and Southwest Recreation Center. 
SG removed stations at the two 
gyms in Spring because students 
said they would rather keep their phones while working out, Robare said. The Marston station was add-
ed as more people used the library.
Each station costs $1,795, he 
said. The money came from the 
technology line in the SG bud-get.  
iPhone 4 chargers will no lon-
ger be available, he said. Chargers 
for iPhone 5 and newer models, as 
well as Android USB chargers, will be at stations. 
There will be eight lockers at 
each station with the same locks 
found in UF’s gyms, he said. There 
will be three charging cords in each. 
Robare said SG ﬁ  rst got the sta-
tions in 2012.“Those stations, over the course 
of about three years, grew techno-
logical defects,” he said. 
Aaron Chambers, a UF comput-
er science junior, said the lockers 
would prevent theft. 
“I used the whole locker thing 
before at a music festival, and it 
works really well,” the 20-year-old 
said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  SG to replace campus charging stations, add lockers
CRIME
CASH, ELECTRONICS AND FIREARMS 
HAVE BEEN STOLEN FROM 
UNLOCKED CARS.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police announced Wednesday re-
ports of car burglaries in the city have nearly dou-
bled since last year, with many burglars targeting 
unlocked vehicles.
So far this year, the department’s Special Opera-
tions Unit has investigated more than 450 car bur-
glaries, many occurring at apartment complexes, 
said GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias at a press 
conference Wednesday morning.
In most cases, Tobias said, thieves have tar-
geted unlocked cars with valuables in plain view.
And while many burglars make off with cash 
or electronics, sometimes they ﬁ  nd free weapons, he said.
“If you’re not locking your vehicle, then you’re 
absolutely just inviting crime into the area,” To-bias said.
In a 3-month period between May 1 and July 31, 
19 ﬁ  rearms were stolen from vehicles in the city, he said, citing a study conducted by GPD analysts.
Standing next to a poster board depicting the 
types of guns stolen in these cases, including pis-
tols and a riﬂ  e, Tobias said it is up to gun owners 
to secure their weapons.
“These guns are now out on the streets because 
people did not lock their vehicles,” he said, adding some of the guns reported stolen have since been 
recovered. GPD: vehicle 
burglaries nearly doubled in 2016
SEE BURGLARIES,  PAGE 4
THE PUBLIC MEETING OPENED 
THE FLOOR TO LOCALS.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville residents expressed their 
concerns of future gentriﬁ  cation and lack 
of affordable housing in the city at a public meeting with UF’s Strategic Development team.
Annette Gilley said she heard UF want-
ed to be a better partner to the community.
“I want them to pay their employees a living wage, because that money all stays right here in the Gainesville community,” Gilley, a Gainesville resident of 18 years, said. 
About 60 people listened to members 
of the development team, who illustrated possible areas of growth with a map and gave ideas for the future. 
The public meeting invited residents 
to share concerns about UF’s expansion within the city.
This “provides a framework of mov-
ing forward,” said project executive John Martin. The development team discussed the 
possibilities of creating buildings near Newell Drive and requiring freshman and sophomore students to live on-campus to reduce off-campus student living. 
Former City Commissioner Randy 
Wells said UF and Gainesville will need to collaborate to come up with successful 
plans for the community. 
“The university, I think, has identiﬁ  ed 
some very critical areas of opportunity, 
and what they want to do is to discover to what extent to have additional input for that,” Wells said.  GNV residents, UF talk plans for growth
BID-DAY BALLOONS
Jacquelyn Siegel (right), an 18-year-old UF exploratory freshman, embraces Caitlyn Hall, a 19-year-old UF 
event management sophomore, after receiving a bid to join Zeta T au Alpha Sorority on Wednesday afternoon during Bid Day Fall 2016. See more bid day photos on page 8.
Grace King / Alligator StaffThe four stations cost about $7,000Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Free English Classes and 
Citizenship Classes
The Latina Women’s League is offering free English classes on Tuesdays starting this week until 
Nov. 8 from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m 
at the Millhopper Branch public library. Anyone looking to im-prove his or her conversational English can attend. The league is also offering free citizenship classes every Thursday from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. from Sept. 8 to Oct. 20 at the library, during 
which attendees can learn about 
the process of citizenship and the Q&A portion of the citizen-ship test. For more information, visit latinawomensleague.org.
UF Guitar Ensemble
The UF Guitar Ensemble will hold auditions today through 
Friday in person or via simple 
video recording. The audition should be a sample of your cur-rent skill level. Participants must be able to read music or tabla-ture and have reasonable tech-nique and good rhythmic con-sistency. If you are interested, please contact Professor Ulisses 
Rocha at urocha@latam.ufl.edu 
to set up a time during the first week of classes, or send video recordings to the email address provided. 
GatorNights: Views from the 
SwampWelcome back, Gators. Whether 
you’re part of the Class of 2020 
or the Class of 2017, we have events for you all year long. On Friday, get ready for Views from the Swamp. From 8 p.m. to 1 a.m., GatorNights will be fea-turing a national comedian and the improv group Theatre Strike Force. Dare to try the Ballistic 
Swings and the Zorb Balls on 
the North Lawn or karaoke at Midnight Munchies’ taco/na-cho bar. For those who missed “Captain America: Civil War” this summer, we’ll be screen-ing it at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. GatorNights is always Friday and free for UF students with 
their Gator 1 Cards at the Reitz 
Union. Attendees must be cur-rent students to participate and are allowed to bring one guest to the event.   
‘Ashley’s Consent,’ a play about 
sexual assaultBrought to you by the Center for 
Arts in Medicine and sponsored 
by the Dean of Students Office, the Office of Victim Services and the Student Health Care Center, “Ashley’s Consent” — run-ning Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday at the Newins-Ziegler Hall Breezeway — presents a story of sexual assault and all that follows in an innovative multimedia format. After each performance, attendees can 
participate in a discussion and 
debriefing with the cast, victim advocates and peer counselors to explore the question, “What constitutes a sexual assault, and when should I intervene?” Learn more about the play and register for tickets online at shcc.ufl.edu/ashleys-consent.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  David Hoffman, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Michael Smith     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 4
THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales Intern
Resume builder
Personalized classroom trainingFirst-hand sales experienceImprove communication skillsMinimum 10-hour work week
Email resume for internship to 
intern@alligator.orgSales Representative
Gain sales experience
Learn prospecting skillsImprove communication skillsFlexible scheduleNo weekendsEmail resume for sales rep position 
to Shaun O’Connor at 
soconnor@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Fal/l.end 2016
*Must be enrolled in fall classes 
at UF or Santa Fe to apply
IT HAS BEEN DISPLAYED IN THE 
REITZ UNION SINCE JUL Y 7.
By Kristen Solorzano
Alligator Contributing Writer
The staircase leading up from the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor of the 
Reitz Union will stop bearing hundreds of rainbow-
colored paper bracelets commemorating the Pulse 
Nightclub shooting today.
Over 300 of the linked bracelets have covered the 
staircase since July 7 as part of the One Pulse Unity 
Project, which honors the 49 people killed June 12 in 
a deadly shooting at the Pulse night club in Orlando. 
The project’s closing ceremony will be at 11:30 a.m. in the Reitz Union Atrium. 
Lloren Foster, the executive director of UF’s Mul-
ticultural and Diversity Affairs, will speak at the cer-
emony, said Diana Moreno, the program coordinator 
for Hispanic-Latino Affairs. Foster and other direc-tors came up with the project’s design.
Mario Agosto, the president of the Hispanic Stu-
dent Association, and Susan Webster, the Student Body president, will also speak. 
Moreno said that while the tragedy happened 
more than two months ago, it continues to be in her thoughts. 
 “We want to honor every victim and their loved 
ones,” she said. 
Messages written included, “It’s okay, we’re here 
for you,” and, “Be strong.”
Michael Samper, a UF computer science sopho-
more, said he hopes students come together to sup-port one another. 
“It’s a great campaign,” the 19-year-old said. “I 
can’t wait to attend the event and see how students 
take the initiative to unify our community.” Pulse Unity 
Project closingCAMPUS
By Amanda Nardi
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF professors now have the chance 
to show their students how to grow wa-
termelon, kale and onions.
The seven-acre Field and Fork 
Teaching Farm, located south of Hull Road, is now offering all UF faculty members the opportunity to teach their 
students how to grow vegetables and 
fruits, said Anna Prizzia, the campus food systems coordinator. 
“Everyone works together and 
shares the beneﬁ  t of the harvest,” Priz-
zia said.
The UF Field and Fork Campus Food 
Program, started by the College of Ag-
ricultural and Life Sciences, sees be-
tween 30 to 50 volunteers each week 
on its Field and Fork Student Gardens, located next to the UF Bat House and the now-teaching farm, she said. The program has donated more than 40,000 
pounds of vegetables and fruits to the 
UF Field and Fork Pantry, a free on-campus food pantry for students and faculty, she said. 
Sophia Gibaldi, who volunteers at 
the gardens three times per week, said she’s always been interested in grow-ing her own food.
“After the moment I planted my ﬁ  rst 
beet plant, I was inspired to change my major from agricultural engineering to horticultural sciences,” the 21-year-old UF horticultural science senior said. 
When Gibaldi began volunteering in 
Spring 2014, there were only four vol-unteers. Now, Gibaldi assists other stu-dents in growing grow their own food.
“My favorite part of all of this is cel-
ebrating local, fresh food with a group 
of friends and being outside in a beauti-
ful space,” Gibaldi said. Field and Fork teaching garden opens
Courtesy to the Alligator
All UF faculty members are now able to use the Field and Fork T eaching Farm, 
located south of Hull Road, to teach students how to grow food.
It covers seven acres south of Hull Road4   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
But police fear the often-re-
peated “lock-it-or-lose-it” mes-
sage may be falling on deaf ears, 
forcing them to get creative with their advisories, Tobias said.
On Aug. 9, GPD introduced 
the “Stuff Gruff,” a hairy crea-
ture meant to personify burglars, 
in a YouTube video later shared through the department’s social media. A couple of years ago, the 
department began issuing bur-
glary-prevention “report cards” to parked vehicles at complexes and other lots, he said.
The majority of cars scored a 
failing grade in the test, which primarily checks for unlocked doors and hidden valuables.
“I cannot say it any plainer: 
You have to lock your vehicle,” Tobias said.Walking her dog at Lux 13 
Apartments on Northwest 13th Street, one resident said GPD’s advice was common sense.
Sasha Larson, a 19-year-old 
UF psychology junior, said she always remembers to lock her car and take out any valuables.
“I don’t leave valuable things 
inside my car because I don’t want anyone to take them,” she said.
Larson said car owners who 
may not usually lock their cars should listen to what police have to say.
“If someone heard that sta-
tistic, they should probably lock 
their car,” she said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgBURGLARIES,  from pg. 1Police have investigated more 
than 450 car burglaries
Max Chesnes/Alligator Staff
Ciara Orsi, a 21-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering senior, lifts a bag out of her car in 
University House’s parking garage on Wednesday afternoon.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
is investigating the death of a Melrose, Florida, man after finding him and his car submerged in Lake Santa Fe on Wednesday morning.
At about 7:30 a.m. Wednesday, ACSO 
divers found Joel Costantino, 68, in the lake after receiving a call from a passerby 
who reported seeing the top of his 5-door 
red Toyota Scion in the water, said Lt. 
Brandon Kutner, a spokesman for ACSO.
The car was registered to Costantino, 
Kutner said. At this time, it is unknown if 
foul play was involved.
Members of ACSO’s Marine Operations 
and Underwater Recovery Team were 
some of the first to respond to the Trout Street boat ramp in Melrose, he said. 
Melrose, an unincorporated community 
of about 6,500 people, is located about 18 
miles east of Gainesville. 
Detectives with ACSO’s Criminal Inves-
tigations Division and Forensics Unit are 
investigating the death, Kutner said. They 
are currently speaking with neighbors and 
relatives.
Costantino’s body has been turned over 
to the District Eight Medical Examiner’s Of-
fice for an autopsy, Kutner said. Costan-tino’s family has been notified. “We’re at this time trying to investigate 
the circumstances that led to the vehicle 
entering the water,” he said.
The investigation is in its early stages, 
and ACSO will release more information 
when it is able, according to a post on its Facebook page.
As of press time, the post has been 
shared more than 100 times.
 
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgACSO: Florida man found dead inside car in Lake Santa Fe
It’s unknown if foul play was involved
Zachariah Chou / Alligator Staff
7-MINUTE MARATHON
UF Dance Marathon shows off its line dance in celebration of the release of captain applications on Wednesday on Turlington Plaza. The line dance is a 7-minute dance set to a mashup of songs.
By Davio J. Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new survey says Alachua 
County residents turn to Face-
book more than any other plat-
form when it comes to news.
Out of the 317 residents t he 
Alachua County Communications Office recently surveyed, Face
-
book was voted the most popular.
About 91 percent of partici -
pants confirmed they had an ac -
count.
Sixty-five percent of partici -
pants said they read local news -
papers, with the Gainesville Sun 
and The Independent Florida Alli -
gator voted the two most popular.
Participants ranged in age 
from 18 years old to more than 
51 years old, with the majority of 
them skewing older.
Mark Sexton, the director of 
county communications and leg -
islative affairs, headed the survey.
Its purpose, he said, was for 
the county to obtain “a snapshot of how we communicate with 
each other” and to determine 
what social media platforms resi -
dents use most. 
The survey, offered from Aug. 
10 to Aug. 15, was motivated in 
part by the county’s push to gain 
a stronger online presence, he 
said.
Sexton said the county is try -
ing to get more involved on social media and the internet.
Through its Facebook page, 
the county posts information 
about emergencies and events.
Some participants, however, 
said they did not use any social media sites, with one writing, “I 
am not on social media. I refuse 
to do this.”
David Carlson, a UF professor 
in the College of Journalism and 
Communications, said the survey failed to account for residents like 
himself who do not have an on
-
line presence.
“Not everyone has internet,” 
he said.Local residents prefer 
Facebook for newsTHURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Police charged a Gainesville man Tuesday with hav-
ing more than 4 pounds of marijuana and $35,000 in 
his shed.
At about 9:30 a.m. Tuesday, members of Gainesville 
Police’s Special Operations Unit searched 27-year-old John Paul Bittner II’s home in the 1400 block of NW 41st Road, according a police report. Ofﬁ  cers had ob-
tained a warrant to search the home.
In Bittner’s shed, ofﬁ  cers found three vacuum-sealed 
bags containing 3.75 pounds of weed 
stuffed in a red backpack and a cloth Publix bag, according to the report. 
Additional bags within these con-tained more than half a pound of weed.
The Publix bag also held 53 syring-
es with .93 grams of weed resin ex-tract in each, according to the report.
Elsewhere in the shed, inside a blue shoebox, ofﬁ  -
cers found more than $35,000 in cash, according to the report. 
The money was in multiple bundles and denomina-
tions, which police said is consistent with narcotic sales.
Strands of red hair, the same color as Bittner’s, were 
found in the Publix bag and shoebox, according to the 
report.
Inside his house, ofﬁ  cers found a small bag of co-
caine, two digital scales, two cannabis pipes, two grind-ers and about 5 more grams of weed, according to the 
report.
Bittner told police the weed and pipes in the house 
belonged to him, while the cocaine likely belonged to his roommate, according to the report.
He denied ownership of the money and marijuana 
in the shed. His landlord, the only other person with a key to the shed, told police none of the seized drugs and equipment belonged to him, according to the report.
Police arrested Bittner on two charges of possessing 
marijuana with intent to sell within 1,000 feet of a con-venience store, one charge of possessing cocaine and another charge of possessing drug equipment.
Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail, 
where he was released Wednesday evening on a $50,000 bond.
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
@ceostroﬀ    GPD: oﬃ   cers 
seize $35,000, 4 pounds of weed
NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ATLANTA (AP) — A judge sentenced a 
Georgia man to 40 years in prison Wednes-
day for throwing scalding water on a gay 
couple sleeping in an apartment, leaving them with severe burns that required sur-
gery.
Jurors deliberated for about 90 minutes 
before ﬁ  nding Martin Blackwell, 48, guilty of eight counts of aggravated battery and two 
counts of aggravated assault in the Febru-ary attack on Anthony Gooden and Marquez 
Tolbert.
Fulton County Superior Court Judge 
Henry Newkirk said the evidence was over-whelming and Blackwell had behaved in a soulless and malicious way. He noted it 
“takes a long time” for a pot of water to boil.
“You had so many outs where the voice 
of reason could have taken over,” the judge told Blackwell, who had faced up to 80 years in prison.
Prosecutors said it was a vicious, premed-
itated attack. Tolbert testiﬁ  ed after pouring hot water on them, Blackwell grabbed him 
as he jumped and screamed in pain and told 
him: “Get out of my house with all that gay.”
Blackwell’s defense attorney acknowl-
edged he poured water on the pair but asked jurors to ﬁ  nd it was reckless conduct.
“It’s not about hate. It’s about old-school 
culture, old-school thinking,” Monique Walker told the jury.Blackwell was a long-distance truck 
driver and lived with his girlfriend, Kim Fos-ter, at her sister’s apartment when he was 
in town. Gooden, who is Foster’s son, and 
Tolbert had been dating about a month and were sleeping at the apartment Feb. 12 after 
working an overnight shift when Blackwell 
dumped scalding water on them.
Blackwell’s attorney said her client felt 
the young men’s behavior was disrespectful and there were certain things people sharing a house shouldn’t do.
Prosecutors said Blackwell’s actions were 
well thought out. He took the time to select the biggest pot in the house, ﬁ  lled it with wa-
ter and waited for it to boil. That gave him 
plenty of time to think about what he was doing and the consequences, Willis said.
Gooden, 24, spent about a month in the 
hospital, two weeks of that in a medically in-
duced coma, and Tolbert, 21, spent 10 days 
in the hospital. Both men suffered severe burns that required multiple surgeries and 
skin grafts.
They both testiﬁ  ed Tuesday they suffered 
great pain and were unable to perform even the most basic everyday tasks — eating, 
bathing and using the bathroom — without help when they got out of the hospital.
Prosecutors asked jurors to ﬁ  nd Black-
well guilty of aggravated battery for disﬁ  g-urement and loss of use of body parts and 
guilty of aggravated assault for dumping the 
hot water on them.  Man gets 40 years for pouring scalding water on gay couple
Bittner
DONATION DOG
Ace, an 11-week-old pit bull, sits on his owner, Fabrice T elfort, a 20-year-old UF applied physiology and 
kinesiology junior, during Omega Psi Phi’s tabling on Turlington Plaza  on Wednesday. T elfort said he brought Ace to the fraternity’s table to increase the donations for Louisiana ﬂ  ood relief. T elfort said Ace helped raise about $20 in the ﬁ  rst hour.
Emma Green/Alligator Staff
A WELCOMING ASSEMBL Y
President Fuchs welcomes current and incoming students at the 2016 Hispanic Latinx Student Assembly. About 300 students attended the event at the Reitz Grand Ballroom on Wednesday evening.
Zachariah Chou/Alligator StaffThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORReflections on my final days with my father
I’m not an overly emotional person. This is 
obvious to those who know me well. But as I sit at my desk writing this column — my first for the Alligator — I can’t keep the tears from slowly streaming down my face and 
splashing onto my keyboard. Two weeks ago, my father passed away after a long fight with cancer. He was 53.
I lost the most influential person in my life. I 
lost my best friend.
My father should never have had cancer in 
the first place. Roughly four years ago, he noticed a spot on the bottom of his left foot. The doctor didn’t think it was a big deal.
But it was. The seemingly harmless lesion was actually 
melanoma, the most severe form of skin cancer. When I first heard, I wasn’t really concerned. Skin cancer isn’t normally a death sentence. Actually, it’s anything but. Melanoma patients have a five-year survival rate of more than 98 percent if it’s caught at an early stage.
But after that initial doctor’s visit, my father went 
untreated for a full year, living blindly while the cancer metastasized. By the time he was properly diagnosed, it 
had entered his bloodstream and spread all over his body, 
from his lymph nodes to his lungs and, eventually, to his brain.
On Aug. 1, my father was hospitalized. The cancer had 
progressed. I immediately drove home to Miami. Those five hours felt like five years. I didn’t know if he would still be alive when I got there. I didn’t know if I would get the chance to say goodbye.
When I walked into the hospital room that night, my 
father smiled when he saw me — the same warm smile that had consistently greeted me since I was a little kid. However, this time was different. The cancer’s effects on his body had become obvious.
Chemotherapy treatments caused his hair to fall out. 
His once strong, 6-foot-tall frame was now gaunt, rav-aged after rapid weight loss. Eventually, he was released and sent home. But he never really improved. On the af-ternoon of Aug. 10, surrounded by my mom, my brother and me, he passed away. I held his hand as he took his final breath.
This whole process has produced one of the 
most difficult times of my life. I’ve been nagged by feelings of helplessness. Uncertainty. Lone-
liness. It’s a type of emotional pain I’d never 
experienced, welling up from places inside me I didn’t even know existed. I was relegated to a bystander, watching someone I deeply loved endure things no person should have to go 
through.
I wouldn’t wish it upon my worst enemy. The hardest 
part was having to lie and tell myself that everything was going to be OK, even though I knew it wasn’t. And despite 
mentally preparing myself for this worst-case scenario for 
some time, it made it no less easy to confront when it actually arrived.
Until the very end, my father was always positive and 
upbeat, fighting the disease with quiet resolve and resil-ience. He did not feel sorry for himself. I never once heard him complain. If he was scared, he never showed it. And through these times, I’ve also found myself feeling both fortunate and thankful.
Before he died, I got a chance to tell my father how 
much I loved him. I must have told him 200 times that fi-nal week. Those final moments and conversations we had will stay with me forever. We didn’t need to speak much. He was a man of few words, as am I.
Eventually, he deteriorated to the point where he could 
no longer speak. It didn’t matter. All I had to do was look into his eyes, and he into mine, to understand how much we meant to each other.
I miss my father immensely. I am forever grateful to 
have known him and to be there to say goodbye. If you have people in your life that you love, don’t wait. Let them know.
I got that chance. Not everyone is so lucky.Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His column appears 
on Thursdays.
A serious talk about 
masturbation humor
Hey, Florida, we did it. For the first time in forever (Any “Frozen” fans out there?), something crazy and na-tionally humiliating happened, and it wasn’t in our state. Here, here: Drinks on us, everyone. According to the local Channel 8 News, police arrested a man 
they found publicly masturbating and “acting like (a) gorilla” at Giant Eagle Plaza in Warren, Ohio.
We’re going to delve into how this story is just so naturally 
funny but also pretty disappointing from a societal standpoint — little bit o’ good news and then some bad news.
This story is the kind of wild stuff you can’t make up. After 
leaving Leavittsburg, Ohio (eh?), Timothy Cook whipped out his eagle on Giant Eagle Plaza and began masturbating. Ac-cording to the news report, “By the time officers arrived, they 
said they found Cook sweating profusely in the parking lot, 
acting like a ‘gorilla’ by squatting on all fours, punching the blacktop, jumping up and down, screaming non-coherently and growling.”
Correct us if we’re wrong, but generally what follows 
masturbating is a magical feeling of release and warm, sweet fuzziness… or deep shame and regret. But squatting on all fours, punching the street, screaming and jumping? It looks like someone never sat through those marvelous “Just Around 
the Corner” sex-ed classes from middle school. Or maybe he 
did, and this is simply the best American sex ed has to offer.
Also, why do the police and others compare this guy to a 
gorilla? When did gorillas suddenly fall under the same cat-egory as wild public masturbators frantically jumping about? Gorillas are decent people. Sure, King Kong has a bit of an an-ger issue and a strange obsession with white women in dresses (arctic fever, much?). But unless they’re defending their terri-tory or trying to woo a mate, gorillas are super chill.
Put it this way: Back in May at the Cincinnati Zoo, a 4-year-
old boy slipped into a gorilla enclosure, and all that happened was one of the gorillas, Harambe, reportedly carried the boy around the habitat for about 10 minutes. That boy would’ve been in way more danger with this Ohio masturbator stomping about and screaming incoherently than with Harambe.
So, let’s stop saying this guy acted like a gorilla when he 
more closely resembles a mix between the Norman Parking Garage “serial masturbator” our very own Martin Vassolo re-
ported on back in February and the Florida man who report-
edly threw a chair at his mailman for not having mail. 
OK, we discussed the absurdity of this story, but why is 
it kind of depressing again? This story is really only funny because said masturbator is a man and not a woman. It’s the reason why we even feel comfortable writing about this story so sarcastically.
Our culture teaches us that male sexuality is to be out and 
in the open, which is why we can joke around when some guy 
in Ohio decides to masturbate in a parking lot. 
Just try to imagine how this story would unfold if a woman 
of equal description — 32 years old, and let’s say somewhat 
attractive, even though the actual guy kind of looks like an ugly Eminem.
If that story even made it to national press, she’d be writ-
ten off as deranged, “unladylike” and called every derogatory name for a woman there is. Our society over-sexualizes wom-en all the time, yet simultaneously expects women to go about 
their lives keeping their sexuality reserved, else they be called 
this and that.
It ain’t right, and we have to acknowledge these minor op-
pressions and work to change them. The fight won’t be over until we can laugh at all public masturbators alike.THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Brian Lee
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
Don’t get me wrong: Michael Phelps 
is, indeed, one of the greatest ath-letes of our time. The man has 
pushed the limits of his sport, and 
as a former swimmer from a fam-
ily of swimmers, I have the utmost respect for his contribution to the sport. That being 
said, it is time for Americans to stop turn-
ing the Olympics — an event created to cel-ebrate all countries and their contributions to athleticism — into the Michael-Phelps-and-America Show.
I get it. Most Americans want to see 
their teams on television. It’s more relat-able to keep up with your country’s team. The news channels certainly know this. I 
understand it is important for ratings and 
for views to feature events in which Ameri-cans are prominently competing and have a good chance of winning.
What I don’t get is the choice to com-
pletely focus the show on a couple of su-perstar athletes. In the swimming events speciﬁ  cally, the commentators focused solely on Michael Phelps, not giving any-
one else competing (except, perhaps, his 
most notable rivals) any attention. Even during the races of other swim-mers, the camera would ﬂ  ash back to Phelps for another up-
date about his facial expression 
or the way he was stretching. It was almost like reality TV: Show a bit of an event, but really focus 
on just one person and his or her 
reactions.
During the men’s 200-meter 
butterﬂ  y semiﬁ  nals, the main fo-cus was on Michael Phelps and 
South African swimmer Chad Le Clos, who 
won the event in the 2012 games. There was little to no mention of the other swim-mers in the race, not even the Hungarian 
competitor Tamas Kenderesi, who was 
seeded ﬁ  rst from the heats. Kenderesi end-ed up placing ﬁ  rst in the semiﬁ  nals. 
The commentators had been focusing on 
Phelps the whole time, so when Kenderesi 
ﬁ  nished ﬁ  rst, they were completely sur-
prised and momentarily forgot his name. It is tactless to not even learn the name of the top-seeded swimmer in the race just 
because Michael Phelps also happens to be 
swimming.Athletes from other countries 
deserve recognition in these games, even from an American 
audience. I am sick of seeing 
swimming races during which commentators only say the names of American swimmers 
and don’t even show the rest of 
the competition. Every race, my father would pause the screen just as the names popped up to see which athletes the commen-
tators chose to skip over.
I understand that the majority of Ameri-
cans like seeing other Americans win big 
on television. But the Olympics is about 
more than just sweeping all of the gold 
medals and being the absolute best. In fact, the Olympic creed is, “The most important thing in the Olympic Games is not to win but to take part, just as the most impor-tant thing in life is not the triumph but the struggle. The essential thing is not to have 
conquered but to have fought well.” Every 
participant deserves his or her chance to shine, even if it is only for the 10 seconds his or her name will be ﬂ  ashed across the 
screen and spoken by the commentators.
The Olympics is not the America-Wins-
All-Games. It is designed to celebrate all 
nations, their participation and how each has a chance to win.  
In the men’s 100-meter butterﬂ  y ﬁ  nals, 
Phelps was beaten by Joseph Schooling of Singapore. This was not only the ﬁ  rst swimming medal for Singapore, but it was 
also the country’s ﬁ  rst ever gold medal. 
During the medal ceremony, when Singa-pore’s national anthem played at the Olym-pics for the ﬁ  rst time, I saw that Olympic creed come to life as I watched my Singa-
porean mother stand up proudly and cry.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and 
computer science senior. Her column ap-
pears on Thursdays.
The NBC broadcast failed to deliver the Olympic message by focusing on USColumn
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.org
"The Olympics is not 
the America-Wins-
All-Games." 8   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
University Police is advising stu-
dents to be cautious after receiving 
a report of a man impersonating an Uber driver and “specifically target-ing female students.”On Sunday, a woman reported 
hearing from her Uber driver that a man driving a gold- or cream-col-ored Chevy Malibu had been solicit-ing rides around UF’s campus, said Capt. Jeff Holcomb, UPD’s commu-nity service division commander.
The woman told police the car had a broken taillight and Uber stick-ers on it, according to a statement is-
sued by UPD.
While no one has reported see-
ing the driver since the department 
issued the statement, Holcomb said officers are using this case as an op-portunity to reinforce safety tips for students who use Uber.
“We just want to make sure we 
can keep a crime from possibly oc-curring,” Holcomb said.
Susan Hendrick, a spokeswoman 
for Uber, declined to say how often people impersonate Uber drivers, adding that police investigate such instances.
She said students should only re-
quest rides through the company’s smartphone app, and that Uber driv-ers are not allowed to solicit rides.
When an Uber driver arrives at a user’s location, Hendrick said, the user should check that the drivers’ li-
cense plate, photo and the make and 
model of the car matches the infor-mation displayed on the app.
“Ensure all those things match 
up,” she said. “It protects the driv-ers, and it protects the rider.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org
Police warn UF students after report of Uber imposterBy Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Sigma Kappa Sorority members in pink and white 
dresses lined Sorority Row on Wednesday afternoon in preparation for the first students to celebrate in their new house for Bid Day Fall 2016. 
More than 1,300 women received “bids” from 
UF’s sororities this year, said Jack Causseaux, the di-rector of sorority and fraternity affairs with Student Activities and Involvement. 
The students who received a bid from a sorority 
will spend the upcoming weeks hoping to eventually become a member. 
Every year, out of all of the women who partici-
pate in rush week, about 85 percent will be matched with a sorority and receive a bid, he said.  
All 17 chapters under the UF Panhellenic Council 
held individual gatherings to welcome the women. For Sigma Kappa, whose 25,000-square-foot house 
recently opened, the moment was even more special, 
because it was the first bid day in the new house. 
“I think the excitement was more amplified this 
year,” said Kylie Werk, the 21-year-old Sigma Kappa president. “I think it’s the highest morale that we’ve ever experienced.”
On Wednesday night, current sorority members 
wore matching outfits, dancing to music outside their respective houses, in front of signs reading “Wel-
come Home.” 
Students who received their bids at the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts rode buses to Sorority 
Row to meet their potential new “sisters.” 
Danielle Jackson, a UF mechanical engineering 
freshman, said the feeling of running off the bus to Delta Zeta Sorority’s house was amazing. 
“After an overwhelming week, I’m just so happy 
to be here right now,” said the 18-year-old. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org More than 1,300 women receive sorority bids, celebrate  
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Members of Zeta T au Alpha Sorority celebrate the arrival of new members  on 
Wednesday afternoon during Bid Day Fall 2016.
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Danielle Jackson, an 18-year-old UF mechanical engineering freshman, is introduced to her bid-day buddy from Delta Zeta Sorority during Bid Day Fall 2016 on Wednesday.
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Members of Sigma Kappa Sorority celebrate the arrival of new members as their busses pull up to the house. This was the first year of recruitment for Sigma Kappa in the sorority’s new house. 
He reportedly targets womenCAMPUSKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Road to III Points hits GNV
Music and arts festival downtown, pg. 13THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Music Roundup
Frank Ocean’s last album, pgs. 10-11By Cindy Lu
Avenue Writer
After a 20-year “love affair” 
with the Red Hot Chili Peppers, 
Jonathan Savage decided to turn 
his obsession into a career. In-
spired by the band to learn the bass at age 14, Savage moved on to create the Red Not Chili 
Peppers, a tribute to his musical 
idols. 
The band currently consists of 
Savage on bass, Juan Sanchez on vocals, Angelo Dibello on guitar 
and vocals and Fede Aguilar on 
drums. The quartet has toured throughout the country as well as internationally, visiting Mex-
ico, Brazil and Japan with plans 
to tour North Korea and Europe within the next year, Savage said. 
The band’s Thursday night 
performance at High Dive will be 
its ﬁ  rst appearance in Florida.
“Exploring new regions and connecting with locals through 
the common thread of music is 
the single most fulﬁ  lling part of 
being a touring musician,” said Savage.
Thursday’s set will consist of 
various Red Hot Chili Peppers hits 
and a few lesser-known tracks 
from throughout the group’s his-tory, ranging from its Hillel days to more recent releases.
“There are, of course, too many 
incredible songs to play them all in one night, but we have a great set picked out to satisfy every era Chili fan,” said Savage.
The Red Nots will also feature 
improvised solos, making Thurs-day’s performance unique from any other the group has put on 
before.
“Fans can also expect the same 
excitement and organic energy 
that makes live music so unpre-dictable and enjoyable,” said Sav-
age.After receiving a recommenda-
tion from an old roommate, the Red Not Chili Peppers speciﬁ  cally 
chose High Dive to kick off its ﬁ  rst-ever statewide tour.
“High Dive is a friendly neigh-
borhood music venue where good 
people come to see good music,” 
said Pat Lavery, the venue’s event promoter. “Gainesville loves trib-ute bands...so we expect people 
to be excited.”
When asked on how he feels 
about the group’s upcoming 
performance, Savage said he is “looking forward to rocking 
Gainesville’s socks off” and rec-
ommends bringing “an extra tube sock if you’re shy.”
Local bands Jay Rogue & The 
Stoges and Aural Eyes will also perform at the show. Doors open at 8 p.m. for the 8:30 p.m. show. Advance tickets are available at ticketﬂ  y.com for $8 or $10 at the 
show.Red Hot Chili Peppers tribute band to hit High Dive
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Red Not Chili Peppers, a Red Hot Chili Peppers tribute band that has performed around the world, will play its first-ever show in Florida on Thursday night 
at High Dive. Doors open at 8 p.m. for the 8:30  p.m. show, and tickets are $8 online at ticketfly.com or $10 at the door. 
10   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
Where is Frank Ocean? That’s the ques-
tion we’ve been asking ourselves for the past 
three years. Frank released his mixtape “Nos-talgia, Ultra” in 2011 and his album “Channel Orange” in 2012. He made few appearances 
and features over the next few years, turning 
his back to the music world and the public eye. After teasing his album, called “Boys Don’t Cry,” in July 2015, he seemed to have vanished, leaving us in constant speculation on his whereabouts and the status of his al-bum. Finally, after four long years, vague hints, a strange live broadcast on his website and countless memes, Frank Ocean is back. 
“Blonde” was released Saturday, and after 
having it on repeat over the past ﬁ  ve days, I’m ready to review it.
The album starts off with a cool melody 
on “Nikes” that leads into the ﬁ  rst vocals, which are high-pitched, taking you by sur-prise. The ﬁ  rst verse is sung in an altered voice before the vocals shift to Frank’s normal voice. The hook and the ﬁ  rst verse are about materi-alistic items, such as Nike shoes and 
rings, whereas the second verse is 
Frank speaking on more emotional and personal levels. Paired with the stunning visuals for the music vid-eo, “Nikes” is a moving song that starts off “Blonde” and sets the tone for the rest of the album.
“Nikes” goes into “Ivy,” which features 
production from Jamie xx, and it wastes no 
time, beginning with the chorus right off the 
bat. Frank details when a past lover, who was a friend of his, tells him unexpectedly that he’s in love with him, leaving Frank unsure how to react. While the relationship didn’t work out, Frank feels that it wasn’t a waste of time. Frank Ocean has a special way of sharing his emotions and feelings through his songs and bringing out those same emotions and feelings in ourselves in ways we didn’t know 
possible.     
“Pink + White” follows and is a 
little more upbeat than the ﬁ  rst two 
records. At ﬁ  rst listen, you can eas-ily hear production from Tyler, The Creator, who helped in the making 
of this track along with Pharrell Williams. “Pink + White” follows the central theme of “Blonde:” past lovers and drug usage. Be-
yoncé, who Frank Ocean has worked with 
before, has uncredited vocals on the outro of this song as well. Who doesn’t love a feature from Queen Bey?
After a short skit that is a voicemail from 
Frank’s mom about staying away from mari-juana and alcohol, “Blonde” continues with “Solo.” Frank spits a verse over a simple, mellow instrumental. Frank’s ability to rap and contribute his own high-note background vocals is a reminder of how extremely tal-
ented he is, as if we ever needed a reminder. 
“Skyline To” is the next song, which, despite being three minutes long, serves as a sort of interlude for the album. Listen closely enough and you’ll catch Kendrick Lamar throughout the song, although he only contributes one or two words at a time in-between Frank’s lines.
Perhaps my favorite track on “Blonde” 
comes next with “Self Control.” The song’s 
chorus features 18 year-old Austin Feinstein 
of the California indie-rock band Slow Hol-lows, as well as Yung Lean, a 20-year-old Swedish rapper, who is the album’s most unique feature, in my opinion. “Self Control” 
Music Roundup: breaking down ‘Blonde’ by Frank Ocean
MUSIC
Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
SEE MUSIC,  PAGE 11THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
is a heartfelt track where Frank addresses bad 
timing in relationships, in which he wants to be with a past lover who he is unable to be with at the moment. The song is Frank Ocean in his most vulnerable state; you can hear the 
heartache in his raw singing.
“Nights” is one of the cooler tracks on the 
album; it has two parts but a few different 
beat switches within those parts, making it feel like multiple songs in one. Part I has a rap-singing mixed verse before the pre-hook that adds some percussion, which helps tran-sition the song into more of an R&B record. Part II has more of a laid-back, hip-hop beat 
as Frank Ocean tells us how he fell in love 
with someone in Houston after he and his family were evacuated from New Orleans fol-lowing Hurricane Katrina. He ends the song with the same hook from Part I but performed differently.Andre 3000 makes an appearance on a 
track of his own on “Solo (Reprise).” This song shifts the mood on “Blonde” for the moment as Andre casually comes out of re-tirement to give his thoughts on a number of issues, from police killings of innocent Afri-
can-American citizens to the use of ghostwrit-
ers in today’s hip-hop.           
Following another interlude, “Blonde” 
continues with a very unique song in “Pretty Sweet.” Frank Ocean lays down a verse over a frantic instrumental as a choir provides ad-ditional vocals. Just like Frank Ocean him-self, the song is random, unpredictable and insanely brilliant.
“White Ferrari” might be the most beau-
tiful song on “Blonde,” with writing credits given to Paul McCartney and John Lennon (for the use of “Here, There and Everywhere” as a sample), Bon Iver and James Blake. The symbolism of a white Ferrari could represent either drugs (cocaine) or innocence/purity. Frank sings from the point of view of his 16-year-old self to someone he loved at the time.
First performed during a tour stop in Mu-
nich, Germany, in 2013, “Siegfried” begins the homestretch of the album and is a sad, slow song where Frank discusses a breakup. 
The song is simply poetic, and the delivery is 
ﬂ  awless.
In the Boys Don’t Cry magazine that was 
released in conjunction with “Blonde,” Frank Ocean describes “Godspeed” as a short story he wrote where he reimagines his boyhood. Frank again speaks to his former self, who struggled as a young, closeted gay man con-stantly on the move, trying to ﬁ  gure out his 
purpose in life. He wishes those going through 
similar instances in their lives “Godspeed” in the years to come.
The last song on the album is “Futura 
Free,” which might be my favorite song along with “Self Control.” A piano riff accom-panied by a soft bass line begins the end of the album. While different than the voice on “Nikes,” Frank Ocean’s voice is once again al-
tered — ending the album similar to the way it 
began. Throughout the song, Frank addresses several different topics, such as religion, fame 
and sexuality. The third verse is comprised of 
short liners over strung-out piano chords until a dope beat drop that continues, until a silent interlude before a pre-recorded interview with his brother ends the album.
Frank Ocean essentially disappeared for 
more than three years without a trace of when he’d return. He had a master plan to share his masterpiece with the world, and while it 
may have taken longer than we had hoped, 
he came through. 
I absolutely loved “Blonde” from start 
to ﬁ  nish. The instrumentals are refreshing; Frank’s voice is soothing, the sampling and sneaky features are creative and the songs are meaningful and well put together. As of now, “Blonde” is a frontrunner for album of the year.
MUSIC,  from pg. 10Ocean releases second album after four-year music hiatusBy Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
UF’s University Galleries is 
launching its Fall season with two 
solo exhibits from Miami-based artists. 
The two shows are from award-
winning artists Yolanda Sánchez and Fred Snitzer, said Amy Vigi-lante, the director of University Galleries.
These shows will be featured in 
two different galleries. Sánchez’s exhibit will be in University Gal-lery from Aug. 30 to Oct. 6, and 
Snitzer’s exhibit will be in the Gary 
R. Libby Gallery from Aug. 30 to 
Sept. 30. 
The two events to introduce 
the public to the artists will be an 
opening reception Sept. 1 from 5 
p.m. to 7 p.m. and a Brown Bag 
Lunch, a new event this year, Sept. 2 from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.
This new event for UG will oc-
cur during show dates on Fridays, 
Vigilante said. Patrons of the gal-
lery can bring their lunches and participate in activities or meet fea-tured artists. She said all of these 
events put on by UG are free. 
Vigilante said the ﬁ  rst two art-
ists to speak in the Brown Bag 
Lunch will be Sánchez and Snitzer. This event is a way to encourage more foot trafﬁ  c in the galleries. Patrons are welcome to eat their lunches there, bring their children or even drop by for a quick glance at the artwork.
“It’s not a formal setting,” she 
said. “We really encourage people to feel like they can drop in.”
Vigilante said that UG wants 
Thursdays to become visual arts 
night for Gainesville, with new ex-
hibits opening at the galleries on 
Thursdays. 
“Visual art doesn’t have to 
be elite or snooty,” she said. “It 
should be something people just 
become really comfortable with.”
Snitzer, one of the solo art-
ists, is a Miami legend in the art world and also a teacher at UF’s 
New World School for the Arts in 
Miami. Snitzer will showcase his 
exhibit “Informed Intuition.” 
Snitzer said he can’t remember 
a time before he wasn’t drawing 
or making things. However, after 
being an artist for almost 50 years, 
he said he struggled to ﬁ  nd new ways to make art.
A few years ago, Snitzer said 
he came to the realization after 
looking at other artists’ works that 
making art is both the artist’s in-
tuition and learned experiences, 
which brought about the title of his collection.
The works, all from the last 
year-and-a-half, are three-dimen-
sional collages that hang on the 
wall composed of repurposed ma-terials. These repurposed materi-
als, he said, ﬁ  rst came from the 
wood shop of NWSA, where dif-
ferent departments would discard materials. 
Snitzer said his work has no 
overarching social agenda. Al-
though he is recycling discarded 
materials and using them in his art, he calls his work a “formal investigation” and not a campaign for social justice.
“It’s very much art about art,” 
he said.  
Sánchez, the other featured 
solo artist, was born in Cuba and raised in Miami. Sánchez wants 
to bring joy to people’s lives with 
her exhibit, “Along the Road of 
Dreams.”
Sánchez earned her doctorate 
degree in clinical psychology be-fore going back to school 14 years 
later to study art. After realizing 
her love for art, she eventually got her MFA from Yale University in painting.
Her exhibit consists of abstract, 
oil-on-canvas paintings.  The larg-est piece, she said, is a triptych, which consists of one large center canvas and two smaller side can-vases.
She said her work is inﬂ  uenced 
by nature, calligraphy and dance.  
What they have in common, she 
said, is their involvement of move-ment, stillness and energy. Her 
works are about celebrating nature 
and uplifting others. 
“Because there’s so much sad-
ness in the world,” she said, “what I want to bring forth is more posi-
tive emotion in an abstract way.”
Sánchez said her background 
as a psychologist doesn’t con-
sciously inﬂ  uence her work, but her past experiences collectively 
determine who she is as an artist. 
“Art can make us more tender 
in that way,” she said. 
 University Galleries starts semester with new art exhibits
ART12   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator
Sánchez’s exhibit will run from Aug. 30 to Oct. 6, and 
Snitzer’s will run from Aug. 30 to Sept. 30 at UF’s 
University Galleries. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
University Galleries’ new exhibits will feature pieces from award-winning artists Yolanda S
ánchez and Fred Snitzer, 
who will both speak at the galleries in coming weeks. 
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
“Stranger Things,” the criti-
cally acclaimed Netﬂ  ix original, is 
a television show where the phrase “Stranger things have happened,” could probably trace its origin. 
The show, created by the Duffer 
brothers, is set in 1983 in Hawkins, 
Indiana. Overall, reviews for the 
show have been glowing. However, there may be some people who still need convincing. Here are some an-swers to your potential drawbacks.
“Stranger Things” is not real-
istic.
“Stranger Things” is a televi-
sion show set in the 1980s and 
steeped in science ﬁ  ction. One of 
the characters in the series is a lit-eral monster. Watching a show like “Stranger Things” means willingly suspending your disbelief. Other than the effects, there have also been commentaries on the internet 
about certain anachronisms within 
the series, speciﬁ  cally from College Humor’s YouTube channel. For me, the anachronisms don’t take away from the suspenseful, intrigu-ing series; they are minor at best. Something that is realistic in the se-ries, however, is the diverse quali-
ties of the characters. In particular, 
the character of Dustin Henderson, played by Gaten Matarazzo, has cleidocranial dysplasia — a condi-tion that affects the development of bones and teeth. This is one char-acteristic that hasn’t been widely portrayed in the media before.
“Stranger Things” is too scary.
Everyone knows his or her pref-
erences in regard to entertainment. 
If watching “Stranger Things” is too scary for you, then that is ﬁ  ne. However, “Stranger Things” is spooky in an ’80s ﬁ  lm sort of way. The watcher knows everything go-ing on is fake — and can obviously tell by the effects — but the sus-
pense that the setting and darkness 
give to the story keeps watchers on the edges of their seats. To be fair, “Stranger Things” is more trippy than scary. I will admit parts of the series are difﬁ  cult to watch but not totally horriﬁ  c. The amount of gore in the series is limited to what most people would consider excessive. I 
would recommend watching it dur-ing the day, or at least with lights 
on. If you are worried about it be-ing too scary, I would not recom-
mend binge-watching it until 5 a.m. 
“Stranger Things” is too com-
plicated.
This drawback may actually be 
correct, but just because something 
is hard to understand doesn’t mean you shouldn’t give it a try. “Strang-er Things” is confusing and cloudy at times, but can’t all great stories 
be that way? Yes, the series gives 
you more information than you can handle at ﬁ  rst, but “Stranger Things” slowly explains most of what you watched, even up until the last episode. Yet, what I love most about “Stranger Things” is its ability to answer watcher’s burning questions without really giving an 
answer at all. 
I won’t spoil the ending of sea-
son one for you. However, a lot of 
questions were left unanswered, which prompted an unending wa-terfall of what-ifs for me. I do have hope the Duffer brothers will make season two just as amazing and mind-bending as the ﬁ  rst; they can 
suspend my disbelief anytime.
TV show review: ‘Stranger Things’
TV
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
Music:
Yacht Rock VII: The Atlantic is 
going nautical on Saturday for its Yacht Rock VII party, hosted by DJ Donna Productions and Atlantic 
Cruise Lines. There will be ’70s and 
’80s jams all night, accompanied by a seafood buffet and a manicur-ist. Nautical attire is required for the event, which kicks off at 10 p.m. Cover is $3 for 21 and over and $5 for those under 21. 
Art:Hipp Art Walk and Open House: 
On Friday night, the Hippodrome State Theatre will host an art walk and open house celebrating its 44th theatrical season. The theater’s art gallery will be open to guests, and tours of the historic building will be offered at 7:30 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. Artists and performers from the Hippodrome’s new shows will be 
around for mingling, and local art-
ists will also perform. The event is free and starts at 7 p.m.
Drinks:
Electro Aerial Show: Want to add a little excitement to your nor-mal night out drinking? Market Street Gainesville has you covered Saturday night, when the venue will have acrobats performing aeri-al bartending. A live jazz band will play with the aerial performance, 
which starts at 8 p.m. When else 
can you be served your drink from a bartender hanging from the ceil-ing? 
Fashion:Gameday Bags: In case you 
haven’t heard, game days are go-ing to be a little different this year about what you can and can’t bring 
into the stadium. UF has imple-
mented a clear-bag policy for this season, meaning regular backpacks and purses will no longer be al-lowed. Since a plastic bag isn’t the most stylish accessory, Little Earth Productions has created a line of clear, stadium-approved bags that are fashionable and show some 
Gator Pride at the same time. They 
come in various styles, including an envelope purse and a crossbody bag, all featuring the Gator head logo. To check them out, go to lit-tlearth.com. Top things to 
check out this weekBy Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
The grand finale is finally here. 
Whether you plan on heading 
to grad school for a lifetime of debt and misery, or you’re going straight into a dream job, these are some pro tips for men and women on how to slay their se-nior years. 
Stay Groomed Women: First things first, get a 
dang manicure. You’re older now, and you should probably look for internships and externships. Nothing says credibility like a fresh set of polished fingernails. (If you’re going open-toe, get those feet handled, too!) Walk-ing into meetings, class and work with a fresh mani will boost your confidence and sense of self. This does not mean run out and get a set of long talons. That’s infinitely unattractive, and you’ll have a wicked-hard time typing. Opt for something that mirrors what a so-phisticated gal you are. Nothing says dud like a set of nubby nails!
Men: Clean the dirt from under your fingernails, and don’t bite them. That’s it. No matter how 
shaky your nerves get, resist the 
urge to bite them so some psych 
major can’t diagnose you with an 
oral fixation. You’ll be confident 
when you look down at your stan-
dard, clean nails. Also, don’t get a 
mullet. That’s key here.
Clean Out Your Address 
Book
Unisex: Since everything is so 
digital these days, communication is easy-peasy. A little too easy if 
you’re on a shot of tequila and an emotional roller coaster. Avoid getting tied up in old flames by 
cleaning out your contacts. Block-
and-erase is the name of the game. 
Be strong, and do both. This pre-vents any possible slippage on ei-ther end. If needed, send one last 
strong-worded text for closure. 
Then, block and erase. No wait-
ing for Prince/Princess Charming 
to cook up some “I miss you so 
much” crock of crap. By getting 
rid of the contact, you won’t have 
the opportunity to unblock and 
make the same mistake twice. 
Purge all of those bad vibes, and make space for the good. Your fu-
ture self thanks you.
Get A New Wardrobe 
Women: Well, maybe you 
don’t have to have an entirely new wardrobe, but a few new 
staple pieces can’t hurt. Wear-
ing sweatpants and T-shirts is for 
drastic underachievers. Dress up 
for every lecture, lab, etc., and you’ll instantly appear more cred-ible than your competition. Yes. 
This is a competition. Say hello to 
opportunities you might not get in 
workout clothes and neon sneak-ers. Own your individual style, but also make sure to tone down 
anything too crazy. Sleek never 
goes out of style. So, consult the 
fashion bibles and prepare to shell out a buck or two. It’ll be worth it when you’re ridin’ high. 
Men: New clothing is not just 
for the ladies. Invest some money 
into a sharp suit and some button 
downs for those pretentious busi-
ness school classes. Wash your 
clothes regularly, and use fabric 
softener. Your date will thank 
you when he or she is snuggling 
up to a soft, nice-smelling Dance Marathon T-shirt. Also, try to find 
a worn-down leather attaché on 
eBay or Craigslist. You’ll look so 
advanced and ready to talk the 
talk and walk the dang walk. 
Once again, don’t get a mullet.
Get A New Planner
Women: This is a big one. The 
planner game is so strong these 
days, and they can be a little pric-ey, too, but a decent planner is essential for every-on-the-go girl. 
Everyone has seen the infamous 
Lilly Pulitzer planners and, of 
course, the effortlessly chic Kate Spade. Both options come with a cost of about $30. But think of it 
this way: These two-year planners 
will follow you into your future. 
That’s $15 per year. I’m down. Also, pro tip from a sentimental nutcase: Jot down some memo-
rable moments throughout the 
year. Your planner will instantly 
become a cherished token as well 
as a place to remind you when 
you have a 2,000-word essay due 
at midnight. What’s more versa-
tile than that?
Men: Make sure your phone 
is charged when going to and from class so that you can easily 
schedule your homework, exams 
and last chances for extra credit. 
If you’re a really gutsy guy, then 
go out and buy a Lilly planner. Go 
with a super tropical theme, and 
sit next to a girl you like. At some 
point, she will inevitably invite 
you over for a girls day. Make sure 
to never actually use the planner. That’s just stupid. It can also be repurposed as a coaster if you’re 
in a bind.
Travel At Least Once During 
The School Year
Unisex: And I don’t mean to 
your mom’s and/or dad’s for holi-day break. Make plans to scrap to-
gether a few bucks for a bus ticket 
to NYC and spend a day or two drinking in new cultures to re-mind yourself what you’re work-
ing toward in your degree. Not a 
fan of New York? Go to Boston, 
Utah or Mexico. If you can go to 
Europe, then go cry at all of the 
beautiful history and fattening 
food. This is the time to do it. Em-
brace the fear and allow yourself 
a different kind of education. You 
won’t regret it.By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
A music festival known for 
taking over Miami every year is 
making a stop up north. Road to III Points will take over down-town this weekend. 
III Points started as a way to 
showcase Miami’s music scene 
with the support of big name DJs, 
bands and rappers, while also fo-
cusing on lectures, cutting-edge 
technology, urban development and a substantial amount of mod-ern art exhibits. 
This year, III Points will take 
place in Wynwood, an art-cen-tered neighborhood in Miami, 
from Oct. 7 to Oct. 9. 
Gainesville residents who are 
fans of III Points, or those who 
simply love electronic music, 
will be glad to hear III Points 
has teamed up with Gainesville’s 
Over Easy Creative to put on a 
small-scale version of the Miami 
festival Saturday.
Over Easy Creative is a Gaines-ville-based electronic music and 
art collective owned and oper-ated by local DJ Les Voss. The 
company initially gained traction 
around the local electronic mu-
sic scene with its recurring “Over 
Easy Fests” at the Jam (RIP). 
Last year, the III Points 
Gainesville promotional team had the idea to show Gainesville what 
III Points had to offer in a more 
comprehensive way than just 
handing out flyers for the festival, 
so Over Easy Creative teamed up 
with Swamp Records to put on the first Road to III Points event in 
Gainesville last August. 
“We’ve built a solid bond with 
III Points,” DJ Voss said. “We’re huge fans of what they’re doing. 
I think they see that Over Easy is 
on the same page in terms of what we’re trying to bring to the table.”
This year’s Road to III Points 
will feature 10 Florida-based per-
formers. Several of these perform-
ers, like Lautlos, SNDNGCHLLZ, 
Ascendants, Nick León and True 
Vine, will be featured on the line-
up of the full III Points festival in 
October. Eight of the 10 perform-
ers booked for this Saturday are 
based out of South Florida, mak-
ing this a unique opportunity for 
Gainesville residents to hear art-
ists they may not yet have been 
exposed to. 
“The lineup features home-
grown Miami local talent who 
will be playing the festival in Oc-
tober,” III Points employee Santi 
Vidal said. “These are artists who 
can potentially breakthrough the 
local barrier and crossover to 
being recognized as national tal-
ent so playing outside of South 
Florida, in a great music city like 
Gainesville, is a step forward for a 
lot of them.”
The festival will be hosted by 
Visionary CrossFit, located at 716 
N Main St., and will kick off at 9 
p.m. Admission is $10, and tickets 
will be sold on a first-come-first-
served basis until the venue’s ca-
pacity is reached. Over Easy Cre-
ative recommends arriving early 
to ensure admission.
Tickets for the full III Points 
festival in October can be bought 
at iiipoints.com.Road to III Points festival hits Gainesville with EDM, artTHURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
Courtesy to the Alligator
Les Voss, a local DJ and owner of Over Easy Creative, is 
hosting the second Road to III Points festival this year. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Road to III Points, a preview of Miami’s III Points festi-val, will take over downtown Gainesville on Saturday. 
How to survive your senior year: plan, travel, cleanseTHURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1BR in 4BR/4BA furn apt. Countryside $325/
mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students pref. ST lease option avail. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   8-25-16-19-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.3BR/2BA, MANY AMENITIES. $800/moSPARROW CONDOS. 15 min to UF by bus.Call 850-974-0686      8-25-16-5-2
2BR/1BA in NW. Available 9/1/16. Comes with W/D. New kitchen, bath, wood floors. Large backyard. $675/mo. Please leave message 352-371-3473     8-31-16-9-2
2/1 Brandywine $650/mo + $650 dep. Hi spd internet & water incl. <1mi to UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopping. On bus route. Avail Aug 15. Text 352.284.2654 or jrfong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-2
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $500/
BR or $1500/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    
8-31-16-8-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Female roommate for BR w/ pvt BA in house off SW ARcher Rd. $115/ wk + 1/2 utils. No children or pets. Please call for an interview 770-823-7099    8-26-4-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
2 Bd/1Ba Brandywine Condo $52,000. Newly renovated, on 1st floor, bus routes. Pool & clubhouse. Near UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopps. Text 352.284.2654 or jr-fong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress SaleNew - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Brand new 2015 Vespa Sprint 150 scooter, Gator blue. Anti-lock brakes, storage area, sport design saddle, rectangular headlight. 60's style. Top speed: 59MPH. 117mpg. ONLY $4700 (original price $5900) Text 352-514-3963.    8-25-16-3-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedLive Longer.
Drive Sober.THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15 
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12SUZUKI FORENZA 2006
Automatic, A/C, white, 125K miles. All power. 
$2800/OBO. Call 352-219-1298    8-26-16-
8-12
2014 YAMAHA 250CC MOTORCYCLE
Very low miles, white, great condition. $2800. 
Call 352-372-2815     8-26-16-6-12
LOW MILE. Cherry of a car. 2006 Pontiac 
Grand prix GT, 67K miles.Prem options, Supchgr. White, w/ blk & tan Lthr, 1 owner, Maintianed, Must See to appreciate! $7K OBO. Call 352-332-6333. or 352-328-6934     8-26-16-5-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the fall semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 Not very exciting
5 “__ the east, and
Juliet ... ”
9 King whose gift
became a curse
14 Tiny bit15 One pulling in
pushers
16 Amtrak express17 GLUTEN-free
fare
19 1983 Woody
Allen film
20 Schoolyard “I’ll
show you!”
21 Scholarly23 Like some
headphones
24 Better at heeling,
say
26 GLUTEN-free
fare
32 “GoodFellas”
fellowship
35 Breaks36 Duffel bag filler,
in a thriller
37 Sandwich guy?39 Take care of41 “Don’t forget ... ”42 Singer Nicks44 Modernists,
informally
46 Mind reader?47 GLUTEN-free
fare
50 Alma __51 Lacking the knack55 Supposed bringer
of bad luck
59 Mimosa family
tree
60 Gas used in
flashtubes
61 GLUTEN-free
fare
64 Chilean range65 K thru 1266 Radius neighbor67 “It could happen”68 Father of Thor
69 Padre’s brothers
DOWN
1 Summer genre2 Atkinson of
British comedy
3 More than just
apologize4 Bill for shots
5 Scoop or poop
6 With 63-Down,
meditativediscipline
7 Org. that takes
many forms
8 Blueprint
9 Lively Polish
dance
10 Like most
cupcakes
11 Pastrami
provider
12 Came down
13 Guru18 Bandanna kin22 Place for family
game night
24 Arial, for one25 Attendance
record spoiler
27 Regular hourly
rate
28 Genetic letters29 Any one of the
Arans
30 Big name in
audio products
31 Beijing blight32 Serious disorder33 Swear words?
34 Fox’s title38 Year in Nero’s
reign
40 Run like heck43 Epic45 High on the
Scoville scale
48 Multichannel49 Making no
progress
52 Bacteria in a
produce recall
53 Brahms’ instrument54 Proud cries55 Teacher’s
handout
56 __ cava57 May race,
familiarly
58 “Stay (I Missed
You)” songwriterLisa
59 Like, with “to”62 Out of use63 See 6-Down
By Max Carpenter©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/25/1608/25/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, August 25, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time & Flexible Hours!
Seeking Supervisors, Warehouse Staff,
Cashiers, Bartenders & Cook
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
352-692-6244
9-1-16-12-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-2-16-12-14
WATER TREATMENT TECHNICIAN5 Years experience & clean driving record required. Salary + Benefits.Local family owned business for over 30years!resumes@bestwatersolutions.com     8-25-16-5-14
ADMIN/MARKETING ASSISTANTFast growing family business seeking full time professional. Salary commensurate with experience. Full benefits available.resumes@bestwatersolutions.com      8-25-16-5-14
EXPERIENCED  ADMIN. ASSISTANT
Part Time & Flexible Hours! Microsoft Office & Outlook required.  Join our team!resumes@bestwatersolutions.com      8-25-16-5-14
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Now Hiring
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted to 
work with elementary school children doing 
arts & crafts, sports, Dance and
much more in an after school program
at various schools.
Hours are
M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders earn $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action
Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information call Misty @
the EDEP office 955-7766
8-26-16-5-14
Earn While You Learn 
     TEXT Marketing      Immediate/monthly residual income      Hank: 352-283-38808-26-16-5-14
ANIMAL SCIENCE INTEREST?----INTERN WANTEDGAIN EXOTIC ANIMAL EXPERIENCECONTACT GAINESVILLE RABBIT RESCUEEmail betsyday@ufl.edu for information     8-26-16-5-14ABA Associates is seeking graduate or un-dergraduates in Psych, Special Ed, or re-lated field to work with individuals with de-velopmental disabilities. Interest in Behavior Analysis, diet and exercise is a plus. Please email Mark at lister@abaassociates.net for more information.     8-30-16-5-14
Lloyd Clarke Sports, 1 mile North of UF on 13th St, is seeking a friendly, caring and reliable sales team member. Position is 25-30 hr/wk including 1 weekend day. Apply in person to 1504 NW 13th St. No phone calls    8-26-16-3-14
Be Your Own Boss!
AAA Real Estate School is
offering a live real estate
licensing course starting 9/6.
Call 352-225-4653      8-30-16-5-14
Sales Associated wanted! Firearm & sales 
exp req'd. 30 + hr/wk. Sat or Sun a must. No calls! Apply at 626 NW 13th St. M & C Army Surplus    8-31-16-5-14
Tutor needed forCollege Algebra. $16/hr.
Email Terri @ tboland97@gmail.com    8-29-
3-14
Gator Tales Sports Bar & Grill
Hiring Bartenders & Servers. Apply at 5112 NW 34th Blvd, across from the YMCA.     9-2-
7-14
Home helper for retired couple in NW 
Gainesville. Housekeeping, cooking & some driving. 15 hours a week. $13/hr. References & background check req.Contact Kathy, altacct@yahoo.com     8-30-16-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Highland Lawn Maintenance
Is your yard in need of help? We provide quality lawn service that you can afford. We offer one time clean-ups as well as monthly service. Give us a call @ 352-514-5973.    8-29-16-5-15Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"VV
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDMonopoly research study: Looking for participants ages 15-21, Hispanic, born in the US.Call 352-294-5980 or email dmiller5@ufl.edu for more info.     9-2-16-10-14
Caregiver neededCompassionate caregiver needed for young lady with disability. Must be at least 18 years old, have a reliable vehicle,  and high school diploma or higher education.Over-nights and weekend shifts available.If interested, please contact Maryam Nikoonejad at (352)246-6039or Mr.Niko at (352)200-1017.        8-29-16-5-14
After School staff needed! Now hiring PT counselors and drivers with a Class A, B or C license! Patience, initiative and a desire to positively impact girls is required! Visit GirlsPlace.net for details!    8-26-16-4-14
National ATM’s is hiring workers to assist with ATM sales & marketing. Great for Student, flex hrs. Outgoing personality a+! Support & Training assistance. Commission $50.-$100. per location. Call 352-363-8373 or email re-sume to info@nationaleventatms.com    8-29-16-5-14
Babysitter wanted, afternoons/evenings, $12/hr for kids age 7-13. Help drive kids from school/to activities, light housekeeping (dish-es, laundry, feed meals), play with 7 yr old, help with homework. Babysitting experience and car required, must be reliable. Email re-sume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu    8-25-16-3-14
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu.    10-4-30-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 24 Pets
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF men's tennis team adds new recruit
Joseph Guillin was announced as the fourth member of UF's 2016-17 re-
cruiting class on Wednesday. A native of Paris, Guillin was a semiﬁ  nalist in 
the U-18 French Championships in 2015. A new semester is underway, 
which means new seasons for UF's fall sports are about to kick off. Follow our writers on Twitter for the latest coverage. See page 18. THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Alligator Staff
With UF’s season opener against UMass 
fast approaching, alligatorSports football writ-
ers Ethan Bauer, Ian Cohen, Jordan McPher-
son and Patrick Pinak take their best shots 
at predicting how the 25th-ranked Gators will fare this year.
BAUER: 9-3 (6-2 SEC)Florida’s 2016 season hinges on a Sept. 
24 date with Tennessee in Knoxville. If the Gators can knock off the Volunteers, they should be favorites to win the SEC East.
But if they don’t, 2016 will be remem-
bered — or forgotten — as a down season for Florida football. 
Putting my Tennessee prediction aside 
for now, I don’t see the Gators beating LSU, even in The Swamp. Even for UF’s stout de-fensive front, Leonard Fournette will just be too much. The same goes for Dalvin Cook in Flori-
da’s matchup with FSU in Tallahassee. The Miami native is an early Heisman favorite and the Seminoles’ defense is loaded with talent. And even though Florida’s offense should be better this season, Florida State’s 
is national-championship caliber. 
The other two games that should be high-
ly contested are Georgia and Arkansas.
Georgia is still in a period of ﬂ  ux with a 
new head coach and uncertainty at quarter-
back, so I think the Gators will claw their way out of Jacksonville with a win. 
As for Arkansas, the Razorbacks are also 
in a difﬁ  cult spot having lost two elite rush-
ers — Alex Collins and Jonathan Williams 
— to the NFL. This one should be close, but with Arkansas ranked No. 58 last year in to-tal defense and Florida at No. 8, I think the 
UF defense limits Arkansas’ offense and al-
lows the Gators to squeak out a win in a low-scoring game. There’s also one big-time trap game on 
Florida’s schedule in Week 2 when Kentucky comes to Gainesville. 
The Gators have owned the Wildcats for 
29 straight years, but UK is getting better. And sandwiched between games against UMass and North Texas, the Wildcats, led by new, highly anticipated quarterback Drew Barker, have the perfect slot to pull off the 
upset. 
I don’t think that’ll happen, but it's more 
likely now than it has been in a while. 
But again, the pivotal game is Tennessee. 
If UF wins that, it has a good shot of making 
it back to the SEC Championship game. That would be a success. 
If it loses — and thanks to Tennessee’s 
two-headed monster backﬁ  eld of Alvin Ka-
mara and Jalen Hurd along with dual-threat 
quarterback Josh Dobbs, I think it will — then 2016 will end the streak against Ten-nessee to go with losses against rivals FSU 
and LSU. 
Even with nine other wins, that’s not  AlligatorSports Roundtable: Predicting 
the Florida Gators football seasonTHE GATORS BEGIN A 
SIX-GAME ROAD TRIP  
AGAINST
NO. 5 STANFORD ON 
FRIDAY.
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Two matches into the season, 
No. 7 Florida has dominated its 
opponents.
The Gators won by a com-
bined margin of 8-2 against visiting Iowa State and Florida Atlantic, notching the soccer program’s 200th home win.
But this Friday they will face 
their first true test when they travel nearly 2,800 miles to take on No. 5 Stanford, their first top-25 opponent of the season, to kick off a six-game road trip. 
“I think any time you play a 
good team, it’s not so much a challenge, it’s just an opportu-nity,” coach Becky Burleigh said on Wednesday.
“It’s really fun. You get a re-
ally good chance to test yourself 
and see where your strengths 
and weaknesses lie.” 
Burleigh has also been testing 
her younger players. 
To this point in the season, 
22 different Gators have seen the field, and 15 of them were underclassmen.
“It’s really important,” soph-
omore Sarah Troccoli said about her younger teammates contrib-uting early. 
“When this class graduates… 
it’s going to be a kind of a big loss. So people stepping up now are already getting them in the role for next year.”
Between UF’s young talent 
and standout senior forward Savannah Jordan, Stanford will have its hands full. 
On Monday, Jordan was 
named the Southeastern Con-ference Offensive Player of the Florida 
soccer has tough road ahead 
SEE ROUNDTABLE,  PAGE 19 SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 20UF's home opener is Sept. 3Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Jalen T abor (31) celebrates after a play during Florida's Orange and Blue Debut on April 8 at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Last season, UF's 
defense ranked 11th in the nation in points allowed per game at 18.3.
18   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
IT’S COHEN DOWN / OPINION
Fall is here.
In Gainesville, that typically 
means a new season of football has 
arrived.
It also means giddy freshmen 
will be ﬁ  ling into the Swamp next Sat-
urday for UF’s season opener, and up-
perclassmen will hit up their friend’s tail-
gate, get hammered on orange and blue Jell-O shots and fall asleep in the stands by halftime. 
But amidst the celebration that is football season, 
don’t forget one thing: Florida is known for more than its football team.
If there’s one thing I’ve learned over the last three 
years covering Florida athletics, it’s that UF’s teams 
— from gymnastics to baseball and everything in be-
tween — are some of the best in the country.
So yeah, football games are always fun. But here 
are a few other Fall sports to keep an eye on.
Coach Mary Wise is pretty much a living leg-
end, having won 21 Southeastern Conference titles in 25 years at the helm of Florida’s volleyball pro-gram. She’s the 10th-winningest NCAA coach of all-time, meaning only nine other coaches in any sport 
throughout the entire recorded history of NCAA col-
legiate athletics have a higher winning percentage than her. She’s been named the SEC Coach of the Year 14 times and AVCA National Coach of the Year twice.
All she’s missing is a national championship.AlligatorSports writers Ray Boone and Alejandro 
López will keep you up to date with all the latest scores, news and analysis from UF’s powerhouse vol-
leyball program as it tries to rebound from a loss in 
the NCAA Tournament’s quarterﬁ  nals last season.
Watch them play in the Gale Lemerand practice facility until the renovated O’Connell Center opens up later this year.
And of course you’ve heard of Abby 
Wambach, arguably the most celebrated U.S. women’s soccer player of all time.
She’s probably one of the Gators’ most 
famous athletic alumna, but she left in 
2001. Now, the No. 7-ranked Gators have 
a crop of talented players, headlined by senior forward Savannah Jordan, a three-
time All American.
After a 19-4-1 record last season, coach Becky 
Burleigh and the Gators will try to advance past the NCAA Round of 16, where they fell to Duke in 2015.
Writers Dylan Dixon and Lauren Staff will keep 
you informed on everything soccer related, and don’t 
forget to catch a home game at James G. Pressly sta-
dium.
And that’s not all.Sports writer Matt Brannon will update you on 
how former Florida football players are faring in the 
NFL, Skyler Lebron will keep you up to date with the 
ongoings of the cross country team, Jake Dreilinger has you covered with both men’s and women’s golf, and Ethan Bauer, Jordan McPherson, Patrick Pinak 
and I will provide you the latest Gators football cov-
erage online and in your nearby newspaper-stand each weekday morning.
So, yes, fall is football time.But in case you get curious as to how the UF’s 
other sports are faring, walk out of your dorm room and go watch a game, or ﬂ  ip to the sports section of the Alligator for all our Gators coverage.
Beat that, Jell-O shots.
Ian Cohen is the sports editor. Contact him at 
icohen@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @
icohenb.  Fall in Gainesville means more than just  football
Ian Cohen
Sports Editor
Football 
@icohenb
Ethan Bauer
Assistant Sports Editor
Football
@ebaueri 
Patrick Pinak
Online Sports Editor
Football 
@pinakk12 
Jordan McPherson
Football
@J_McPherson1126
Matt Brannon
Gators in the NFL
@MattB_727Ray Boone
Volleyball
@rboone1994
Alejandro Lopez
Volleyball
@ajlb95
Dylan Dixon
Soccer
@dylanrdixon 
Lauren Staff
Soccer
@Lstaﬀ  27
Jake Dreilinger
Golf
@DreilingerJake
Skyler Lebron
Cross Country
@SkylerLebronFOLLOW OUR STAFF ON TWITTER
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenb
Looking to stay up to date on Florida athletics? Follow the alligatorSports staﬀ   on Twitter for scores, 
updates and analysis from our writers, and email us at sports@alligator.org with any comments or 
suggestions.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19
what Florida fans are hoping for. 
COHEN: 10-2 (6-2 SEC)
Finally, for the first time in 
what seems like a decade, the 
Gators seem to have a reliable starter at quarterback.
And for a team that figures to 
have a top-20 defense, that will make all the difference.
Here’s the thing: If Luke Del 
Rio plays just OK, if he doesn’t 
cause a bunch of turnovers and 
gets the ball to his playmakers — who the Gators seem to have a surprisingly large amount of this year — then Florida will be good. 
Good enough to win the SEC East.
And it’ll all be because of UF’s 
defense.
Florida has a dynamic cor-
nerback duo in Jalen Tabor and 
Quincy Wilson, plus one of the best defensive lines in the coun-try. And with its recent history, no one should doubt that. 
Florida has had a defensive 
lineman drafted in the first four rounds of the NFL Draft each of the past five years. 
This year, its line is headlined 
by Caleb Brantley — Jonathan Bullard’s understudy — along with a healthy mix of talented up-perclassmen and underclassmen.
And on offense, they’ll be 
unrecognizable from last year’s 111th ranking in total yards per 
game (334). 
UF has a competent stable of 
running backs to make up for the 
loss of Kelvin Taylor to the NFL, 
and at receiver, the Gators have more talent than you may sus-
pect. 
Antonio Callaway will be UF’s 
main threat followed by junior Brandon Powell, and don’t sleep on transfer Dre Massey. He’s a 
versatile, quick playmaker who can play anywhere from the slot, 
the outside or as a returner on special teams.
A 10-2 record definitely isn’t 
inconceivable in 2016, with loss-
es to a Les Miles-led LSU at home 
and Kirby Smart-run Georgia in Jacksonville. And yes, that means I think they’ll beat FSU on the road.
But don’t be surprised if they 
lose to Alabama once again in the 
SEC title game.
McPHERSON: 9-3 (6-2 SEC)
In all reality, Florida’s success 
in 2016 bubbles down to four games: Road trips to Tennessee and Florida State, a home game against LSU and the annual con-test against Georgia in Jackson-
ville.
The common thread among all 
four of those teams? A solid run-
ning back. 
Jalen Hurd (UT), Dalvin Cook 
(FSU), Leonard Fournette (LSU) and Nick Chubb (UGA) will test Florida’s run defense early and often in those games. 
Based on last year’s games, 
that can be troubling. 
Hurd, Fournette and Cook 
torched UF’s defense in 2015 for 
a combined 476 yards and six 
touchdowns (remember, Chubb was injured and did not play in the Florida-Georgia game). 2015 Heisman Trophy winner Derrick 
Henry also had a field day with 
the Gators’ defense in last year’s SEC Championship game, rushing for 189 yards and a touchdown.
If Luke Del Rio and the offense 
can put up decent numbers and the defense can find an answer for stopping Heisman-worthy running backs, the Gators have a 
chance to go far this year and stay 
in the hunt for the elusive SEC ti-tle. If not, it’s back to the drawing board for another year.
PINAK: (8-4, 5-3 SEC)Florida won a number of 
games in 2015 by small margins. I think the script flips a bit this year.
UF’s stout defensive line and 
ball-hawking secondary will still lead the Gators to wins over their three weaker non-conference op-ponents and SEC teams like Ken-tucky, Vanderbilt, Missouri, Ar-
kansas and South Carolina.
But Tennessee, backed by a 
powerful rushing combo of run-
ning back Jalen Hurd and quar-
terback Joshua Dobbs, will final-
ly snap the Gators’ streak of 11 straight wins dating back to 2005. After all, Florida barely pulled off last year’s thrilling 28-27 victory 
over the Volunteers.
Despite questions surrounding 
Georgia’s quarterback, the Bull-
dogs return a healthy Nick Chubb 
after tearing his ACL last year and 
a sturdy defense that held oppo-nents to 305.9 yards per game, seventh best in the country. Those two factors alone might prove to 
be too much for Luke Del Rio and 
the Gators.
Then you have Florida State 
and LSU, both led by their star 
running backs. Dalvin Cook and 
Leonard Fournette each ran for 180 or more yards and two touch-downs in wins against said stout defensive line in 2015. I don’t 
see that, or the results, changing 
much this season.ROUNDTABLE,  from pg 17UF's 2016 opponents include Tennessee, Georgia, FSU, LSU 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Coach Jim McElwain walks the sidelines during Florida's Orange and Blue Debut on April 8. McElwain, 
who is entering his second year as coach of the Gators, lost to Alabama in the 2015 SEC Championship.
Alligator File Photo 
Florida quarterback Luke Del Rio participates in throwing drills during a Spring practice on the Sander Practice Fields. Del Rio was named the Gators' starting quarterback, edging out graduate transfer Austin Appleby.
20   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2016
Week after she scored a goal in 
both of the first two matches. 
Jordan has 67 career goals, 
passing former Gator Danielle Fotopoulos for the No. 3 spot on Florida’s career goals list.
Jordan has also played 160 
minutes this season, the most of any of her teammates thus far.
“She’s great. She’s a great 
finisher,” sophomore Melanie Monteagudo said
“She makes teams focus on 
her so that other people can be open, which is helpful for us because other people get the op-portunity to score.”
Factoring in the effects of a 
three-hour time change and a late start time, this weekend will be a good measuring stick 
for whether Florida has the abil-
ity and talent to play well on the road against a quality opponent. 
“It’s just another experience 
for us as far as getting on the road and seeing what our team looks like on the road,” Burleigh said. 
“We have a lot of people who 
never played on the road in a college game before."
@Lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org SOCCER,  from pg 17Florida will face a three-hour time diference in California
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Brooke Sharpe (11) dribbles the ball during UF's 3-2 win over Florida State on Aug. 30, 2015, at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
