We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 28 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016
Florida volleyball loses to Kentucky
The Gators were swept at home, pg. 14
Florida volleyball loses to Kentucky
New local music venue to debut
Flow Space will host a festival Saturday, pg. 8
Electronic group Classixx to play live set
They will perform at The Wooly, pg. 9SG Fall Election 2016
See our full photo gallery and results, pg. 3
ALL BUT ONE
By Valerie Berman
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Hume Hall residents were evac-
uated Tuesday night after an alarm 
and at least one sprinkler went off, causing ﬂ  ooding.
Thirty-two rooms in Hume Hall 
East on the ground ﬂ  oor, the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor and the second ﬂ  oor ﬂ  ooded due to a broken sprinkler head that was set off accidentally, Sharon C. Blansett, the assistant to the asso-ciate vice president for Student Af-fairs, wrote in an email. 
Blansett said UF Department of 
Housing and Residence Education 
staff members are investigating 
the circumstances that caused the sprinkler to break.
Brandon Ptak, a Hume East resi-
dent, said a blaring alarm went off at about 11:55 p.m. 
For about four hours, the 
19-year-old UF biochemistry and molecular biology sophomore 
stood outside the hall with dozens 
of other students. 
“Some students had walked out-
side without pants, thinking it was just a regular ﬁ  re drill,” he said.
While they waited, students be-
gan speculating on what set off the alarm, he said. 
One rumor was that a second-
ﬂ  oor resident threw a baseball, which hit a sprinkler.Hume Hall East floods  
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Former professional basketball player 
Jason Collins will be at UF on Friday to campaign for Hillary Clinton.
Collins, the ﬁ  rst openly gay NBA player 
and an ambassador for LGBTQ+ rights, 
will be on Turlington Plaza at 11 a.m. en-
couraging people to register to vote in the general election.
In Florida, the last day to register is Oct. 
11.
On Wednesday, Collins posted a 20-sec-
ond-long video on Twitter about how he will stop in cities throughout Florida to campaign for Clinton, the Democratic presi-dential nominee.
Before coming to Gainesville, he will 
visit the University of North Florida and Florida State University, according to a press release. On Wednesday, he attended a voter registration event at Miami Dade College.
Omar Shatara, 22, said it is refreshing to 
see professional athletes extend their inﬂ  u-ences beyond sports.
“It’s cool to see them use their plat-
form to speak on something other than just sports,” the UF industrial and systems engi-neering senior said.
A registered Republican, Shatara said 
he will cross the political aisle and vote for Clinton in the election. He said backing 
Clinton would give Collins a bigger plat-
form to discuss changes he wants to see in society.
“It’s a great opportunity to do so and 
make an impact on the community,” he said. F irst openly gay NBA player to visit UF to campaign for Clinton
Collins
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
This year, Burrito Bros. Taco Co. is celebrating its 
40th anniversary — and its lowest sales in years.
Owner Randy Akerson, who has run the restaurant 
for 39 years, said business has been stunted by the building going up next door on University Avenue.
In the construction of a mixed-use property that 
will house an apartment complex, a hotel and several restaurants, property owner Landmark Properties has ripped up the street next to the restaurant and removed all nearby parking.
With its location at 1402 W. University Ave. already 
in a secluded nook behind the street’s main drag, the construction on Northwest 14th Street makes it difﬁ  cult to lure students from across campus.
In the past year, revenue has dropped 23 percent.“It is heart-wrenching to look at revenue from last year compared to this year and live in a war zone,” he said. “I’ve paid my taxes for 40 years, I’ve provided jobs in this community and nobody has ever offered me anything. I’m not complaining, but I think that I deserve to be fairly treated, and at this moment I don’t think that’s the case at all.”
Akerson ﬁ  rst tried writing a letter to Gainesville 
Mayor Lauren Poe, who relayed the message to the city’s planning commission.
“They were very sympathetic and offered to make 
sure the company is following their permits, and I’m sure they are,” Akerson said. “They’re not doing any-thing wrong, but they’re crushing me and my neigh-bors because no one can get here.”
Tuesday, Akerson took to Facebook to encourage 
customers to write to city commissioners.
Akerson said he expected his post to reach about 
1,000 people, but word quickly spread. Construction hurting Burrito Bros.Grace King / Alligator Staff
The only winning independent candidate, Zachariah Chou, a 19-year-old UF political science and journalism 
freshman, smiles after winning the Inﬁ  nity Hall race 42-14. See the story, page 3. 
SEE HUME,  PAGE 4 SEE BURRITO,  PAGE 4
Grace King / Alligator Staff
UF Student Government’s Supervisor of Elections Eric Hobbs reads the results for the 2016 Fall Student Senate Race. Impact Party loses just one seat in Fall 2016 electionsSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  88° LOW  67°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
DIY gameday swag
Create personalized UF swag 
for Saturday gamedays in the 
Swamp. Make your own orange and blue ribbon ponytail holders, beaded bracelets and bandanas. 
Bring your favorite Gator T-shirt 
for shirt-cutting tutorials. There 
will be free mini cupcakes and punch. This Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment event will take 
place in the Reitz Union, Room 3320 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. today.
‘The New Mrs. Tesman’
The UF School of Theatre and Dance presents “The New Mrs. Tesman,” a fresh interpretation of Henrik Ibsen’s classic drama “Hedda Gabler.” Set in Ottawa, Canada, it follows is a member of the country’s “visible minor-ity” dealing with the expectations set upon her as the daughter of Canada’s first black member of Parliament in the late 1950s. Performances will be held in the Black Box Theatre in the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion until Sunday. For infor-mation on performances times, visit arts.ufl.edu. Tickets are available through the University Box Office.
Celebrate the Florida Museum’s 
11th annual ButterflyFestExplore the lives of bats, bees, 
birds and butterflies at the 11th 
annual ButterflyFest on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Learn 
about butterfly gardening, native 
pollinators, conservation, back-
yard wildlife and more. Enjoy 
the ButterflyFest plant sale, one of the museum’s largest sales of 
the year, Friday to Sunday. Come 
in your favorite pollinator attire 
for the pollinator parade. Food and merchandise vendors will be available. Visit flmnh.ufl.edu/
butterflyfest/home for more in-
formation. ButterflyFest is spon-
sored in part by the Gainesville Sun.
Florida Museum to host photog-
raphy workshopSnap the picture of a lifetime Saturday and Sunday from 8 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. in the Florida Museum of Natural History’s Butterfly Rainforest. Use your tripod and other photographic equipment not usually permitted inside the exhibit. The fee is $25 for museum members and $28 for non-members. Pre-registration is required. Visit flmnh.ufl.edu/butterflyfest/whats-happening/workshops or call 352-846-2000 for more information.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Correction
An article that ran Wednesday un-
der the title "Queer, Transgender 
People of Color Union holds first 
awareness week" incorrectly 
stated the groups' name. It is Queer, Transgender People of Color United.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 28
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Impact Party members await the election results. Impact won 49 of the 50 Student Senate seats this 
election. Independent candidate Zachariah Chou won the Inﬁ  nity Hall seat.
THE FIRST ELECTED 
INFINITY HALL 
SENATOR IS THE ONL Y  
INDEPENDENT.
Alligator Staff Report
Only one independent candidate 
won his seat after Impact Party took 
the rest of the Student Senate seats Wednesday night. 
Zachariah Chou stood in shock as 
UF Student Government Supervisor of Elections Eric Hobbs announced Chou won Inﬁ  nity Hall’s seat. The 2016 Fall Student Government re-sults were announced on the Reitz Union Breezeway at 10 p.m.
A total of 7,393 students voted, 
with 5,032 ballots cast Tuesday and 2,361 ballots cast Wednesday, Hobbs 
said. Last Fall’s election saw 10,229 
total students vote.
Impact took the other 49 seats, 45 
of which were guaranteed before the night began, as many candidates ran unopposed. The last time a party ran unopposed by another party was Fall 2014, according to Alligator archives. During Fall elections, 50 senators are 
elected to represent their residence 
halls or one of ﬁ  ve off-campus dis-tricts.
After Chou’s name was called, he 
smiled as his friend Peter Nguyenho, 19, ran up to hug him and others came to congratulate him. 
“After standing outside of Inﬁ  nity 
Hall for 48 hours, it was all worth it,” Chou, an 18-year-old UF political sci-
ence and journalism freshman, said.
Chou said he ran a one-man, ze-
ro-dollar campaign. The one time he 
couldn’t campaign for himself was during an exam, and his roommate, Adam Turner, 18, ﬁ  lled in for him by standing outside Inﬁ  nity from 8 a.m. to 9:45 a.m. Wednesday.
When Hobbs announced the ﬁ  rst 
Impact win, party members jumped, cheered and hugged one another. 
Impact Party President Janae 
Moodie said Chou would be as much a part of the Senate as the Impact candidates. “It doesn’t matter if you’re an in-
dependent candidate,” she said. “No matter what, we’re always going to advocate for everyone.” 
Chou’s Impact Party opponent, 
Kelly Hooper, declined to comment as she wiped away tears.
Emily Dunson, Impact, won 
Beaty Towers with 50.59 percent of the vote, narrowly defeating inde-pendent candidate Jeremy O’Brien Murillo, who earned 48.82 percent of the vote.
Impact took all District seats, in-
cluding District D, the only district in which an independent, Livia Ledbet-ter, was running.
Ledbetter said she was disap-
pointed to lose but excited for Chou. 
“I’m excited to see what he does,” 
she said. “I just hope Impact sticks to their word and tries to be coopera-
tive.”Chou won Inﬁ  nity Hall despite 
some Inﬁ  nity residents receiving Dis-
trict A ballots Tuesday. Hobbs wrote in an email that no students notiﬁ  ed 
him of issues with the Inﬁ  nity ballots 
Wednesday. 
Chou said he planned to deliver 
everything promised on his platform and more, including some of his opponent’s ideas. He said he isn’t worried about being one of the few independent senators and that he has made friends with some Impact 
senators. 
“I believe by working to-
gether we can accomplish every-
thing both parties want,” he said.
Editor’s note: Zachariah Chou for-
merly worked as a paid photogra-pher for the Alligator. 
 Impact Party sweeps 49 of 50 seats in Fall electionELECTION RESUL TS 2016
T otal voting in Fall 2016: 
7,393 students votedDay 1: 5,032Day 2: 2,361
Independent candidate: 
Zachariah Chou:Donations (as of press time):
$0
Spent (as of press time):
$0
T otal Spent: $0T otal voting in Fall 2015: 10,229 students votedDay 1: 6,427 Day 2: 3,802
Impact Party:
Donations (as of press time):
$150 from Impact President Janae Moodie
Spent (as of press time):
$81.94, T arget Copy$6,004.61, Rad Wear Inc.$36.78, Wal-Mart$68.59, Lowe’s$170.46, Papa John’s Pizza$211.96, Publix
T otal Spent: $6,574.34 THE ELECTION BY THE NUMBERS4   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016
At about 4 a.m., students living on the 
third and fourth ﬂ  oors were allowed back 
inside, Ptak said.
But even after students got back in their 
rooms, the damage was apparent. 
When Ptak left for class Wednesday 
morning, he had to take the stairs because the elevators had been shut down. Chunks of ceiling tile and debris were on the ﬂ  oor.
Lauren Rostkowski, a 19-year-old UF 
psychology freshman, said a friend had se-
vere damage in his room, and his bed was 
entirely soaked.  
“From my understanding, he didn’t sleep 
all night,” she said. 
“He was worried about his belongings 
while also trying to study for exams, which really stressed him out.”
Rostkowski said she was studying in the 
Hume common area when she saw students 
running out of the building next door. On Wednesday morning, she found a 
large wet spot stretching into her room. 
“I could tell from the carpet that water 
had crept in at least three feet from the hall-way,” she said. 
Austin Gordon, an 18-year-old UF biol-
ogy freshman, was working on a quiz when 
the alarm went off. He ran across the street to Graham Hall to ﬁ  nish it. 
“I ended up getting a 100 on the quiz — 
thank goodness,” he said.
Melissa Johnson, the associate direc-
tor of the UF Honors Program, sent out an 
email to the professors of affected students 
through the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce. 
In the email, she wrote that students may 
have lost computers, textbooks and other belongings. 
“Students are being instructed to log any 
damaged personal property and provide the log to the Housing staff,” Blansett wrote in a separate email. “Further instructions will 
follow.” HUME,  from pg. 1Thirty-two rooms were looded
“Last time I checked, it has reached 60,000, 
which absolutely stuns me and ﬁ  lls me with 
an overwhelming sense of gratitude no matter how this turns out,” he said.
The post led to two of the busiest lunch 
rushes in months, he said, and the over-whelming response warranted a call from Landmark’s contractor. Poe responded to resi-dents’ complaints through Facebook.
Akerson said the contractor told him con-
struction on the road would be completed 
by Oct. 6. The road is currently a dirt ditch 
that smells of sewage, Akerson said, and he doesn’t believe construction will be complete by Thursday.
“I’ll take it with a grain of salt,” he said. 
“They also promised to have something done by the ﬁ  rst football game, and we see how that went.”
Maddie Ward, 20, has lived in Gainesville 
her entire life. For as long as she can remem-ber, Burrito Bros. has been a dinner favorite.
As of press time, the UF elementary educa-
tion junior was one of 131 people to comment 
on the restaurant’s original Facebook post, 
and she immediately tagged her mom.
“As soon as I saw it, I had to show her,” 
Ward said. “Every time I ask her what she wants for dinner, it’s always, ‘Let’s go to Bur-rito Bros.’”
Ward said they usually eat there once or 
twice a month, but because the construc-tion took away parking spots, she sometimes 
chooses to go elsewhere.
“I drive by almost every day, but some-
times I don’t feel like parking a mile away,” 
she said. “The (Facebook) post made me see that other people — lots of them — think that, too. They’re a Gainesville staple, and I would hate to see them go.”
Despite the headaches, Akerson said he is 
not ready to give up on his restaurant.
“All I’m asking is for a chance to be here 
for my 50th anniversary,” Akerson said, “and to not be crushed like a bug for my 40th.”BURRITO,  from pg. 1Construction has afected parkingTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
In a suit and tie, UF President Kent 
Fuchs did 12 pushups Wednesday to send 
a message about veteran suicide rates.
At Fuchs’ ofﬁ  ce in Tigert Hall, UF stu-
dent Nelly Kadag quickly added 10 more to 
his tally, which was part of the 22 Pushup 
Challenge, an initiative highlighting the daily suicide rate among U.S. military vet-erans.
“It was all for a good cause,” Fuchs said.On average, 22 veterans commit suicide 
every day, according to a 2012 Department of Veterans Affairs report.
On Sept. 9, Kadag, an interdisciplinary 
ecology doctoral student, nominated Fuchs via Twitter to do the pushups.
As Kadag waited in Fuch’s ofﬁ  ce, she 
said she couldn’t believe he accepted. When the 61-year-old university president stepped out, he told her his goal was ﬁ  ve pushups. 
As his staff counted, Fuchs completed 
12 pushups before Kadag topped it off. Af-ter, the two shook hands. 
Kadag, 30, said she became involved in 
the pushup challenge after a friend from her native country of Kenya nominated her. But when she tried to nominate friends on Facebook, no one followed through.
So Kadag started nominating strangers. 
On Friday, two University Police ofﬁ  cers 
dropped and gave her 44. Two days later, 
she challenged the dean of UF’s College of Agricultural and Life Sciences. 
Fuchs nominated Scott Stricklin, UF’s 
new athletic director, for the challenge. 
 “I think this is a new way of challeng-
ing him,” Kadag said. Fuchs does pushup challenge 
for veteran suicide  awarenessTHE ANIMALS WERE 
TRAPPED FOR 26 DAYS.
By Robyn Wilbar
Alligator Contributing Writer 
As Gary Chancey cleared the Big Bend 
Wildlife Management Area on last Tuesday, 
he found two gray animals trapped in a foot-
and-a-half-deep body of water. 
So, the technician with the Florida Fish 
and Wildlife Conservation Commission called 
for help.
“I got the call originally that there were 
two dolphins that were trapped inland and 
out of habitat,” said Mike Walsh, an associ-ate professor for UF’s Aquatic Animal Health 
Program. 
By 10 a.m., Walsh, a team of UF students 
and members from other organizations drove 
northwest to the area outside Perry, Florida, he said. There they found a mother manatee 
and her ﬁ  ve- to seven-month-old calf. 
It’s likely that a storm surge from Hurri-
cane Hermine washed them there, where they 
were trapped for 26 days, he said. 
Andy Garrett, Florida’s manatee rescue co-
ordinator, said they lifted them out using an 
excavator, a piece of heavy machinery with 
a arm on it. 
After the procedure, UF volunteers and 
veterinarians took blood samples and body-
weight measurements, said Karen Parker, 
an FWC public information coordinator. The 
mother was about 300 pounds underweight, 
but she and her baby were ﬁ  ne. 
Parker said he thinks the mother was able 
to nurse her baby while trapped. 
Both manatees were released near St. Pe-
tersburg, Florida, Walsh said. 
“I think what’s always fascinating when 
you go out to one of these things is that you never know what’s going to happen,” he said.  UF helps rescue manateesThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Guest Column
Checking in with your Student Body president
Hello Gators,
With the Fall semester already al-
most halfway over, I wanted to share 
with you some of Student Govern-ment’s accomplishments thus far.
We have recently installed Gatorade 
vending machines at the Student Recreation & Fitness Center and the Southwest Recre-ation Center, allowing students to enjoy Ga-torade while working out. 
Additionally, a new distribution program 
will help students stay dry by offering recyclable pon-chos in various locations around campus. 
Students can also borrow hammocks at both South-
west Rec and Student Rec by presenting their Gator 1 Cards at the information desks.
We are proud to announce the return of free park-
ing at Southwest Rec. Students can park in the Bledsoe Lot next to the 
recreation center during decal hours, which are from 8 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. 
The lot is located behind the soccer fields 
and directly across from the new Center For Outdoor Recreation and Education. 
Make sure to download the PassportPark-
ing Mobile Pay app, or visit the website at ppprk.com/park to register your vehicle. The zone number for the Bledsoe Lot is 483.
Come out to Turlington Plaza on Wednes-
days from 1:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. to hang out with your SG executive officers and learn more about SG’s executive branch. 
The best part of representing students is being able 
to meet them and learn about their experiences at UF, so come out for some free food and prizes.
Make sure to follow my administration on Facebook 
(UF Student Government), Twitter (@UF_SG), Snap-chat (@UFstudentgov) and Instagram (@ufsg) to see what we’re up to throughout the year.
As always, please feel free to reach out with any 
comments, questions or concerns.
Go Gators!Susan Webster is the UF Student Body president. 
Her column appears monthly.See Trump for who 
he is: a con man
Pop quiz: Who said the following quote? “Leaders, true 
leaders, take responsibility for the success of the team and understand that they must also take responsibility for the failure.” Was it (a) Elon Musk, (b) Steve Jobs, (c) Mark Cuban or (d) Donald Trump? Given how topical the last 
choice was, those of you unfamiliar with the quote probably guessed correctly.
The Donald is perhaps one of the most quotable people in 
the last few months. Granted, anything he says means nothing because something he has said in the past (or would probably say within ﬁ  ve minutes) immediately disqualiﬁ  es it. Yes, it seems the man constantly contradicts himself. But we’ve managed to ﬁ  nd some instances in which he’s remained consistent in his views. On the topics of women, minority relations and immigration, 
Trump has consistently reminded us that he is, in fact, the big-
oted, sexist, xenophobic and arrogant schmuck he makes himself out to be.
This particular quote started circulating after The Donald 
(according to a variety of nationwide polls) undeniably lost the debate against Hillary Clinton. This should be unsurprising, see-ing as his most impressive defensive maneuver was shouting the word “wrong” over the most politically qualiﬁ  ed woman in the nation. But even this quote, the one so proudly displayed by the 
most loyal of “DonBots,” is one of many lies in his arsenal. Sure, 
the ﬁ  rst part is right. When a Trump-thing succeeds, he takes all the credit. But when a Trump-thing fails, it’s the property man-ager’s fault, it’s the press’s fault, it’s his ex-wife’s fault, etc. The reality is, to those who really believe he’s a “successful business-man,” he’s nothing but a fraud.
Trump’s defense against Clinton’s attacks regarding his tax 
returns caused our opinion editor’s sincerely unbiased PolitiFact app to lose its s---. His phone battery legitimately went down 17 
percent because Trump’s defense was so full of lies. Granted, 
our editor has an Android phone, so his battery loses 17 percent whenever he sends a text, but still. The reality is Trump is not nearly as wealthy as he claims to be. He’s a try-hard. The most embarrassing thing to his campaign would be the realization he’s actually as rich as what he truly is: a typical B-list Hollywood celebrity. And he’s said some embarrassing stuff.
Clinton accused him of stifﬁ  ng countless workers out of mil-
lions of dollars. Carpenters, construction workers and electricians 
have all felt the wrath of Trump’s greed. Even a piano salesman 
was stiffed $100,000 by the guy. Trump is, without a doubt, a con man. He ﬁ  nds small businesses, has them perform their jobs and then doesn’t pay them knowing they don’t have the ﬁ  nancial resources to ﬁ  ght back. Then he says, “Take me to court, or take this settlement.” Trump has the resources to go to the piano mak-ers themselves, but he intentionally went to the little guy know-ing he’d save big. When Clinton accused him of being involved in a lawsuit in which minority workers were discriminated against 
by one of his companies, his reply wasn’t that such discrimina-
tion happened, it’s that he settled it out of court. When you’re running for president, that’s the wrong answer.
The fact this man won the Republican candidacy is a disgrace. 
The Republican leadership unanimously despised this man. The heroes Republicans revere have all turned their backs on the party that gave them so much. You can support Trump, but you cannot truly be a Republican simultaneously. Trump does not embody conservative values. Or liberal ones. Or values in gen-
eral. He’s a tycoon straight out of a Mark Twain novel. Given, 
Twain would probably have written that ﬁ  rst quote (with the intention of having him later disprove it) as a piece of dialogue for such a shameless character.
Susan Webster
opinions@alligator.org
“The best part of representing 
students is being able to meet 
them and learn about their 
experiences at UF.”THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
It seems like each time I turn on the 
news, incidences of gun violence ﬂ  ood the screen. They happen with such fre-quency that they no longer feel unusual. Sometimes they are not even considered 
nationally newsworthy. Yet one this week caught my attention.
On Monday morning, a Houston lawyer 
named Nathan DeSai went on a shooting spree near a mall and injured nine people — one of whom is in critical condition — before being gunned down after an ensuing shootout with law enforcement.
Neighbors admitted DeSai had been act-
ing strange recently. Paranoid.
This allegedly stemmed from a broken 
relationship with his law ﬁ  rm.
During the shooting, he was dressed like 
a Nazi.
This incident comes on the heels of last 
week’s mall shooting in Washington state in which a 20-year-old man opened ﬁ  re in a Macy’s. Five people were murdered.
Predictably, in the wake of these trag-
edies, there has been renewed clamor in the media and among lawmakers for increased gun regulations.
We had the conversation after 
this summer’s Pulse nightclub at-tack in Orlando.
We had it after last year’s 
massacre at the Emanuel Afri-can Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina. We had it after 20 children were slaughtered at Sandy Hook El-ementary School in 2012. The rinse, repeat cycle happens like clockwork with every mass shooting.
But each time, we miss out on a chance 
to have a more substantive conversation — one that doesn’t get the national airtime it deserves. Maybe it’s because it’s not polar-izing. It doesn’t bring in views or amass clicks online like two people arguing over the Second Amendment seems to. Yes, the gun control debate is important. But it fails to strike at the core of a more serious yet far less frequently discussed issue in America 
that can be a catalyst for incidences of vio-
lence: mental health.
According to the National Alliance on Mental Illness, 20 percent of American adults suffer from some type of mental illness. While that ﬁ  gure might not seem over-whelming, it’s 43.8 million people 
— no small number. Of these, a 
combined 8.5 million suffer from schizophrenia or bipolar disorder, while another 16 million live with major depression. But perhaps even more staggering, 60 percent 
of people with mental illness did not receive any form of treatment within the last year. And these issues are not limited to adults. 
Suicide is the second-leading cause of death 
in the age 15 to 24 demographic. Ninety percent of those who die by suicide suffered from mental illness.
Not enough is being done to remedy 
America’s mental health problem. Look no further than this campus. According to a WUFT report published Sept. 20, UF has only one mental health professional 
for every 1,546 students. This can create a 
backlog, causing some students to go un-diagnosed while others are unable to get the treatment they need. There has been a 48-percent rise in the number of students seeking counseling from Fall 2008 to the 2013-2014 school year.
This university, as well as others across 
the country, can and should take a more proactive approach to treating mental health.
Obviously, not everyone with mental 
illness will commit gun violence against themselves or others. But simply calling for an increase in government ﬁ  rearms regula-tions only puts a Band-Aid on the issue. It’s a misguided attempt to correct the problem, 
because it doesn’t address the real issue. 
We often get too caught up in the wrong details of these stories: What type of gun? What caliber bullet? How much ammuni-tion? These questions are imperative, but they don’t paint the whole picture.
Sometimes, it’s not enough to ask how 
these incidents of violence are taking place. It’s more important to ask why.
We’re not doing that enough.Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His 
column appears on Thursdays.
As someone who was raised by im-
migrant parents and has traveled abroad multiple times in her life, I am acutely aware of the average American’s geographic and cultural 
ignorance. This shouldn’t be a surprise to most people; after all, it is a subject of self-deprecating humor on late-night talk shows. We seem to be aware that the Average Joe can’t differentiate Iraq from Iran and thinks all Asian food comes from the same place. We laugh at him and take comfort in the fact that we know our Pad Thai isn’t Chi-nese, thank you very much. But are we really much better?
There’s a trend in the way Americans tend 
to lump places together. Ask any sorority girl who’s traveled abroad, and she can probably tell you about her fun times in France, Spain and England. But if you mention anywhere east of the Rhine, she’ll probably look at you with a blank stare. Eastern Europe is one singular entity to most Americans, as is the Middle East, East and South Asia and the entire continents of Africa and South America. The typical “well-traveled” American can tell you a lot about Western Europe, but the rest of the world — the world that’s less industrialized or too foreign — is just clusters of similar-sounding countries.
Western Europe has appeal; I 
understand that. It’s foreign, but not “too” foreign. French, Spanish and Ger-man are common languages to pick up in school. Americans traveling abroad can get the foreign appeal of old cathedrals and dif-ferent foods, all with the comfort of Wi-Fi and American television networks. For those who don’t travel, most world history classes focus a lot on Western Europe — you can be-come either a Francophile or an Anglophile without leaving your classroom.
The biggest problem with this ignorance 
about the world outside the North American-Western European sphere isn’t that it exists; it’s that most Ameri-cans refuse to educate themselves about the rest of the world and will shut down when someone tries to inform them.
When I was in high school, one 
of my classmates — a relatively bright and ambitious student who was part of the Model United Nations team — was telling the 
teacher that Croatia and the rest of former Yugoslavia were part of Asia. Because I am, in fact, half-former-Yugoslavian and I have, in fact, been to the former Yugoslavia every other summer for most of my life, I raised my hand and politely told her and my teacher that no, all parts of former Yugoslavia are part of Europe, thank you very much. This was met with a “Well, it depends” by the girl and a “Oh, well maybe Model UN does it differently” from the teacher. Even as I con-tinued to explain, I was shut down by the girl (who now goes to FSU — go ﬁ  gure).
If you are not aware of something and 
someone who does know tries to inform you, the correct response is to listen, accept the new information and learn — not shut off the person and insist you're correct. For some reason, most Americans take this approach when it comes to expanding their geographic and cultural horizons. No matter how many times I tell people that Croatia is in Europe, and Singapore is not part of China, I am met with a defensive “Well, how was I supposed to know that” and then a shutdown, a re-fusal to incorporate the new information into an existing system.
I like to keep positive, however, because 
it is not so hard to ﬁ  x this problem. Just lis-ten and learn and keep your mind open, be-cause the world has a lot more to offer than your preconceived notions of it.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and 
computer science senior. Her columns appear on Thursdays.
Have a diﬀ  erent conversation: America's problems run deeper than guns
Keep an open mind when someone tells you about different countriesColumn
ColumnBrian Lee
opinions@alligator.org
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgElectronic group Classixx to play show 
It will be at the Wooly today, pg. 9Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. Where to celebrate Oktoberfest
The best spots in Gainesville, pg. 10THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
The past 15 months have been a 
career whirlwind for U.K. rock band 
The Struts.   
In that time, the band has trav-
eled to the U.S., signed with Inter-
scope Records and released its debut 
album, “Everybody Wants.”
The four-piece rock ‘n’ roll outﬁ  t 
will be performing its only show in Florida at High Dive on Friday, ac-cording to High Dive’s website. 
Originally from Derby in Der-
byshire, England, the band consists of Luke Spiller on lead vocals, Adam 
“Addo” Slack on guitar and vocals, 
Jed Elliott on bass and vocals and Gethin Davies on drums.
Even though the group is native 
to the U.K., The Struts do not get nearly as much attention back home as the band does here in the U.S., Spiller said. The band hasn’t had any radio hits in the U.K. for the last 
ﬁ  ve years.
“I don’t give a s--- about England 
anymore,” he said. “Until they start 
playing our music, I don’t give a f---.”
Spiller described the band’s 
sound as an evolving entity, using some contemporary examples to il-lustrate his point.
“It’s kind of like the sophistica-
tion of Queen with the swagger of the Stones, mixed in with some ’70s 
glam aesthetic,” he said. 
Spiller, a founding member of 
the band, discovered this inﬂ  uential 
music in his mid-teens. When he started to listen to bands like Queen and the Rolling Stones, he was in-spired to start the group, he said.
While most people would expect 
fans of the band to be edgy adoles-cents, 48-year-old Michelle Crews from Glen St. Mary, Florida, deﬁ  es all odds. The stay-at-home mom has been listening to the band for a year now through the recommenda-tion of her 17-year-old son and her 25-year-old daughter. 
“It’s happy music,” she said. “I 
see myself being a lifelong Struts fan.”
Crews went to see The Struts 
perform in Jacksonville, Florida, in May. While at the concert, she gave the band a necklace and a note telling the band members she thought they were going to be big stars. When Spiller read the note, he 
called Crews over to the stage and 
gave her a kiss on the cheek. She kissed him back.
Living with ﬁ  bromyalgia, Crews 
spends a lot of time feeling ill. She said going to a two-hour concert is the biggest thrill she allows herself. Over the years, Crews has seen the likes of Billy Idol, Elvis, Paul Mc-
Cartney and Duran Duran.
She will be traveling to 
Gainesville to see The Struts per-
form again this Friday. 
“I’m counting down the days on 
my Julian Lennon calendar,” Crews said. 
Spiller said he is committed to 
ensuring the band works hard mak-
ing music that will change the world 
one song at a time.
“We have to be better,” he said. 
“I’m not satisﬁ  ed. I want to be bigger; I want to be better, and if I don’t do that, then I think I just might jump off a cliff.”
Perhaps one of the more eye-
catching traits of The Struts shows are Spiller’s wardrobe changes. There are no set costumes, just pieces of ﬂ  amboyant clothing Spiller combines to create unique outﬁ  ts 
for each performance.
Spiller even started a clothing 
design project called Beautifully Strange Clothing before everything 
started heating up in the U.S. for the band. 
This project was one that he 
wanted to have as a creative outlet for himself, but since touring began August 2015, he hasn’t had the time to properly design clothing with fab-ric, patterns and mannequins, he said.
Instead of the hassle of design-
ing clothes while on tour, Spiller has 
taken up a pastime of do-it-yourself 
projects. 
One type of easy on-the-road 
project Spiller said he likes to do is drawing designs on acoustic and electric guitars with permanent markers.
“I can literally just grab some 
paints and pens and go at it with the 
guitar,” he said. 
Even with Spiller’s unique style 
on stage and creative pastimes off 
stage, he said the band is primarily focused on music.
“The look just goes on top of 
that,” he said. “We’re a music group, ﬁ  rst and foremost, and ev-erything else is kind of decoration.”
In regards to his own looks, 
Spiller has been compared to Mick Jagger, Steven Tyler and even Fred-dy Mercury. 
“It’s in our nature to categorize 
people and pigeonhole them,” he said, “and I guess I’m just kind of hoping over time that people maybe see me for me.” 
Doors open at 8 p.m., and the 
show starts at 10 p.m. Ticket prices are $15 to $18 at ticketﬂ  y.com and the box ofﬁ  ce at High Dive.
British band The Struts to play Gainesville show
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Struts, a U.K. rock band inspired by Queen and the 
Rolling Stones, will play at High Dive on Friday at 10 p.m. 
By Cindy Lu
Avenue Writer
By day, Flow Space offers a se-
rene environment for yoga and ﬁ  t-
ness training. By night, it is a lively event hall for concerts and parties.
Flow Space, located downtown 
at 117 NW 16th Ave., was ofﬁ  cially opened this summer as a movement 
arts facility, but also serves as an 
event venue for concerts and cel-ebrations.
Maggie Rucker, the owner and 
manager of the facility, opened the space after instructing yoga for 10 years, incorporating her love of ﬁ  t-ness and music into one.
“I was presented the opportunity to create something in this building, and we chose the direction of not only movement but also music,” she 
said. “The whole point of what we’re 
doing at Flow Space is to become a community spot for people to come and enjoy other people.”
As Rucker was opening Flow 
Space, another venue in town was shutting down. The Jam, previously located on West University Avenue, was one of Gainesville’s most popu-
lar music venues until its closing in 
May, according to Alligator archives. Despite the loss of a premier event site, Rucker and the previous own-ers of the Jam are working to secure Flow Space as the next social hub.
In order to do this, Flow Space will host Jan Waldick’s Jam Fam New Moon Festival, an all-day fes-tival-style event to take place Satur-
day.
Since the Jam’s closing earlier 
this year, many were eager for a 
“Jamily” reunion.
“A lot of people were itching to do 
something,” said Dave Johnson, the festival’s producer. “People wanted to play, to put something on.”
Members of the Jamily played a 
large part in the event’s organiza-tion, speciﬁ  cally Gainesville band Locochino, a favorite at the Jam and the headliner for Saturday’s event. Johnson, who is also Locochino’s manager, said the band helped with everything from booking performers to organizing the day’s schedule.
The festival is set to start at 3 
p.m. Afternoon activities will include 
children’s workshops and an acous-
tic set.
“(We) wanted to make it as in-
clusive as possible, which meant family-friendly, bringing the kids,” Johnson said. “Don’t worry about al-tering your day to do this. Bring your day with you.”
As the night draws on, however, 
the festival will go into louder and more electronic sets, a vibe typical of a Saturday night out. Perform-ers include Locochino, Hail Cassius Neptune, (V)owls, Wester Joseph’s Stereo Vudu and several other musi-cians.Saturday’s event will also fea-
ture a special beneﬁ  t for two notable Jamily members. 
Ed Waldick ran lights and sound 
at the Jam for four years. His wife, Jan, recently passed away; a char-ity portion was added to Saturday’s schedule to assist Waldick with med-ical bills and to honor Jan.
The beneﬁ  t will consist of rafﬂ  es 
and auctions for prizes such as pri-vate shows by featured bands, mas-
sage sessions, art pieces and band 
merchandise. A large percentage of ticket sales will also go toward help-ing Waldick.
Tickets to Saturday’s festival can 
be purchased online at locochino.com for $11 or $15 at the door. 
New local music venue debuts with New Moon festival
MUSICTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
We all know the routine: You have 
a few hours to kill between classes, 
or you’re on campus late at night and need to grab a bite to eat. You’re tired of dropping the same $8 or $9 at Chi-potle or Chick-ﬁ  l-A, so you’re looking for something that will satisfy both your wallet and your taste buds. I un-derstand the struggle, and I have your 
back on this one, so here are Gaines-
ville’s best bang-for-your-buck local food joints: no chain restaurants, no guilt for spending too much and none 
of the same old options. 
La Tienda
First on the list and ﬁ  rst in my heart. 
I ﬁ  rmly believe La Tienda is the best Mexican place in Gainesville, and to 
make it even better, it’s also a bargain. 
The restaurant’s location on South-
west 13th Street means you’ll probably need a car or a scooter to get there, but it’s deﬁ  nitely worth the trek. You 
can get three fantastic tacos for $5.60 
or a stuffed burrito for $5.80 among a 
packed menu of other options. Also, great guac. 
Leonardo’s By The Slice
This one’s a Gainesville staple, and 
I’m still not emotionally ready to accept 
it’ll be closing in the next year. In the meantime, if you haven’t been, you ab-solutely need to. On the corner of West University Avenue and 13th Street, it’s in walking distance of campus for the perfect between-class lunch break, and it provides a perfect casual hangout vibe. The pizza also ranks among the best in town and is $3 to $4 for a huge slice. The rolls alone are enough to make a stop, and the food will ﬁ  ll you up for the entire day. The SpotLocated right next to Midtown on 
Northwest 18th Street, The Spot is some-
thing of a hidden gem. It has a really 
diverse menu, from gyros to specialty 
sandwiches and burgers, with nearly 
everything in the $6 to $7 range. A good option and deﬁ  nitely something to mix 
up the same old places in Midtown. 
Burgerque
After opening in town earlier this 
year, this place has quickly gained 
popularity, and it’s easy to see why. 
Burgerque offers burgers and barbeque 
sandwiches starting at $3.50, along with 
ribs, wings and a ton of sides. Located on West University Avenue, it’s also re-ally close to campus and is deﬁ  nitely 
some of the best barbeque you can get 
in town for the price. 
Flaco’s Cuban Bakery & Coffee
With two locations, this Cuban bak-
ery is a Midtown and a downtown favor-
ite, and since it’s open until 2:30 a.m., 
it’s especially popular with the drunk 
weekend crowd. Whether you’ve had a few beers or you’re totally sober, this place deﬁ  nitely lives up to the hype and 
offers some great food for a great price. 
Flaco’s signature pressed sandwiches 
ring up at around $6, with empanadas for $2 and arepas starting at $3.50. 
Relish  
It wouldn’t be a complete list with-
out Relish. Consistently rated the best burger joint in Gainesville, it’s also one of the best cheap options, with a single patty for $4.75. They have tons of top-ping options, from the classic lettuce and tomato to the delicious avocado, pineapple or fried egg. With four loca-tions in town (Midtown, downtown, Archer and Royal Park), there’s always one close by no matter where you are, and it’s are open late to satisfy your cravings.Best food for your buck
LOCAL
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
Electronic production duo Classixx will per-
form at the Wooly today as part of the group’s tour in support of its latest album, “Faraway Reach,” which was released in June. 
“Faraway Reach” is Classixx’s second full-
length studio album. The songs on this release are extremely upbeat and fast-paced, encourag-ing even the tensest listeners to bop their heads. 
However, “Faraway Reach” is deﬁ  nitely not 
your run-of-the-mill pop album. Its tracks are danceable, sure, but beyond that they are dense-ly layered and meticulously produced. Take the album’s ﬁ  rst track, “Grecian Summer,” which opens with a lone kick-snare beat that is soon joined by a hypnotic synth hook. The ecstatic keystrokes wander around the left and right chan-nels, giving the track a full-room sound experi-ence — something a listener might notice if he or she were to sit down and pay close attention. 
The thing about these songs is they are so 
pulsing and vibrant that it’s hard not to get lost in a trance when listening to them. 
“I’ve always thought we made pop music,” 
said Michael David, a member of Classixx. “Sure, the foundation is in house music, but Tyler and I have always been fans of pop music and had ap-preciation of stuff we had heard on the radio. So even though we’ve never made it our aim to get on the radio, we still like to write catchy songs that could have broad appeal.”
This album includes several vocal features 
from popular artists such as T-Pain, How to Dress Well and Passion Pit. The vocal features on “Faraway Reach” are much more prominent than those on the group’s debut album, “Hang-ing Gardens.” 
The shift in the number of vocal contributors 
from the ﬁ  rst to second album feels reminiscent of legendary sample-based electronic group The Avalanches and the band’s move from a com-pletely sample-based album “Since I Left You” in 2000 to sophomore effort “Wildﬂ  ower.” The 2016 “Wildﬂ  ower” album features several guest vocal-
ists and rappers.
“The collaboration list on the album is in-
sane,” Florida DJ Michael Macleod said.
Of course, the two Classixx albums were only 
released three years apart, while The Avalanches had a whopping 16 years between those two al-
bums. Still, it’s interesting to look at this like a 
pattern in terms of electronic artists who gained 
popularity after their debuts.
“We toured a lot throughout those three years, 
which deﬁ  nitely added to the time between the 
two albums,” David said, “but we mostly just 
work slowly; we’re not just trying to churn stuff 
out. We’re constantly working, but it takes us a 
while before we feel like something is ﬁ  nished.”
When an electronic act such as Classixx goes 
on tour, fans are often left wondering whether to 
expect a DJ set, composed of prerecorded mate-
rial mixed live on stage, or a “live set,” featuring 
music created on the spot, normally through a 
computer software like Ableton. 
This upcoming show at the Wooly will be a 
live set; however, it won’t be the duo tinkering 
on computer programs the entire time.
“Our live set is very different as far as elec-
tronic live sets go,” David said. “We’ll have ana-
logue synthesizers, live guitar, a real vibraphone. 
It’s important for us when putting on a live show 
that we have some very ‘live’ elements. I’m not 
interested in doing an Ableton set; I think I’d 
rather DJ than do a midi-controller set and call 
it a ‘live’ set.”
Classixx will be performing with vocalists 
Alex Frankel and Harriet Brown, both of whom are featured on “Faraway Reach.” 
Tickets for the show are available in advance 
for $15 at thewoolygainesville.com, Hear Again 
Music and Arrow’s Aim Records, and they are 
also available on the night of the show for $18. 
Doors open at 8 p.m.Electronic group Classixx to 
play live set at the Wooly
MUSIC10   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Fall is ofﬁ  cially upon us in 
Gainesville. Although that doesn’t 
mean much in terms of changes in weather, it does mean that one of the largest drinking festivals in 
the world is here: Oktoberfest.  We 
may be far from Munich, but there’s plenty of places in Gainesville that are throwing their own celebra-tions for this weeks-long holiday. If you’re looking for something to do in the coming weekends to cel-ebrate, check out these three spots that are throwing their own Okto-
berfest events. 
WOBtoberfest
World of Beer, located at 3265 
SW 34th St., is throwing its ﬁ  rst ever Oktoberfest celebration Friday at 7 p.m. Although this World of Beer location just opened this past May, it’s  expecting a solid turnout 
based off of internet trafﬁ  c. 
“We have a lot of interest on 
Facebook,” product manager Alai-
na Donato said. “We’re putting it on Twitter, and we have some pre-sale tickets already sold, so we hope it’ll be good.” 
World of Beer will have games 
going on, including a Stein-holding 
event, Donato said. The place will 
also have blind beer tastings and a live band. The event’s sponsors, Sam Adams and Sierra Nevada, will be in attendance to hand out free goodies. Pre-sale tickets are $25 and will include a T-shirt, a Stein and two Oktoberfest beers.  
First Magnitude Oktoberfest 
First Magnitude Brewing Com-pany, located at 1220 Veitch St., is 
unique in the fact that it can brew its own beverages on site. Featur-
ing an indoor area as well as a beer 
garden, this brewery’s ﬁ  rst-ever Oktoberfest celebration is sure to be memorable and will take place Saturday.
“We love hosting events here 
at the brewery,” event coordinator Lane Abraben said. “Oktoberfest is probably one of the best reasons to 
host an event, so we ﬁ  gured we’d 
have some fun with it.” 
This celebration, which runs 
from noon to 10 p.m. and is free to attend, will feature live music, sev-en different German-style beers and delicious German-style food. This includes Stubbies Pop-Up Sausages, a signature of the former Stubbies 
& Steins pub located in Gainesville, as well as pretzels from LEJ Pretzel 
Company, Abraben said. Plus, for those that can’t make it out on Sat-
urday, the food and drink will still 
be there to try Sunday. 
Haile Village Center Oktober-
fest
The Haile Village Center, lo-
cated at 9116 SW 51st Road, is a short drive away from UF and features shops, restaurants, town-houses, apartments and more all 
in one convenient place. The area 
also hosts a few large community events throughout the year. In fact, this year’s Oktoberfest celebration will be its 20th so far. It’s taking place Oct. 7 from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
Although this event is family-
oriented, there will deﬁ  nitely be beer ﬂ  owing, Haile Village Center 
manager Rick Madeina said. In addition to the beer, there will be 
bounce houses, the Cilantro Taco food truck  and four restaurants. 
The Oktoberfest celebration will 
also feature live music and a spe-cial performance of one of Michael Jackson’s greatest hits.
“Cameron Dance Studio does 
‘Thriller’ with 50 kids out in the street,” Madeina said. “That’s the highlight of it. They’ve been doing that since the beginning.” 
Whether you want to try some 
freshly brewed beers, go to a big party or attend a family-style event in a beautiful outdoor location, there’s an Oktoberfest event for everyone in Gainesville this fall. The weather may not be as crisp as Germany’s this time of year, but we can still pretend we’re celebrating 
in Munich for a weekend or two.
Where to celebrate Oktoberfest in GNV this month
LOCAL
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Metal band Skeletonwitch will 
continue its “Curse of the Dead” tour 
at the Atlantic, located at 15 N. Main St., alongside Oathbreaker, Iron Rea-gan and Gatecreeper on Sunday. 
The diversity in lineup and style 
between each performing band promises for a unique show and ush-ers in Oathbreaker’s ﬁ  rst time on an American stage.
Skeletonwitch’s Scott Hendrick 
ﬁ  rst became interested in music as a kid when his “cool older brother” drove him to the record store and took him to his ﬁ  rst concert, he said. This fostered Hendrick’s love of mu-sic, but it was not until he went to college that Hendrick got involved in making music himself. 
Skeletonwitch emerged out of 
Athens, Ohio, in 2003 when guitar-ists Hendrick and Nate Garnette met at Ohio University. 
“We both liked rock and roll and 
heavy metal much more than we liked our classes,” Hendrick said.
For a time, Garnette and Hen-drick kept their music secondary to school, but around the time of Hen-drick’s graduation, these priorities began to reverse. During the band’s ﬁ  rst European tour, Hendrick recalls standing on a mountaintop in Ber-gen, Norway, and realizing making 
music was going to be his life.
“I looked around and thought, ‘I 
don’t want to give this up,’” Hen-
drick said.
Now, some 13 years later, the 
band is signed to Prosthetic Records and has ﬁ  ve members: vocalist Adam Clemans, guitarists Garnette and Hendrick, bassist Evan Linger and drummer Dustin Boltjes. While Skeletonwitch has been described as a black-thrash metal band, Hendrick said he is hesitant to align the band to any particular sub-genre because the group is continuing to expand 
and grow its unique sound with ev-
ery new release and performance. 
Hendrick said the band’s unique-
ness comes largely from the individ-uality of its members. 
While the band as a whole is in-
ﬂ  uenced by bands like Mercyful Fate and Iron Maiden, each member has his own personal inﬂ  uences, from Japanese psychedelic music to punk rock. 
The band members have toured 
all over the U.S. and Europe and have no plans of slowing down. Hendrick said he would like to see 
Skeletonwitch perform in new places 
like South America and Japan in the future. 
The show will open at 8 p.m., 
and the tickets may be purchased through showclix.com for $15 or at Arrow’s Aim Records and Hear Again Music.
Metal band Skeletonwitch to perform at the Atlantic By Monica Humphries
Avenue Writer
A still-life of ballerina shoes hung with pride on 
Stephanie Wilhelm’s refrigerator when she was in middle school.
That sense of pride was where the idea for The Fridge, 
the UF School of Art and Art History’s pop-up art shop, 
came from. 
“When you’re a little kid and you paint something or 
get an ‘A’ on a math test, it goes on the fridge,” said Ari-
ella Mostkoff, a visiting assistant professor in the College of Art and Art History. “It’s a proud space where you can display your work.”
The UF School of Art and Art History, in collaboration 
with the Friends of Art and Art History, created this new gallery and shopping experience for the community.
The shop, located at 2441 NW 43rd St. in Thornebrook 
Village, will open Friday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.
The grand opening overlaps with Artwalk, an event in 
which artists showcase their work at different locations across Gainesville.
After Artwalk, The Fridge will remain open for the 
32nd Annual Art Festival at Thronebrook, which will be Saturday and Sunday, until Oct. 14.  
More than 40 artists will showcase their work, and a 
wide range of styles and media will ﬁ  ll the gallery, Most-koff said.
One of these artists is 31-year-old Wilhelm.“Any chance you have the opportunity to make the 
community aware of the arts in general is a really beneﬁ  -cial and important thing to do,” the second-year ceramics graduate student said.
Sandblasted mugs and cups with strokes of color made by Wilhelm will be sold at the gallery. 
Prices range from $7 to $1,800, Mostkoff said. For 
each piece, 60 percent goes to the artist, and the remain-
ing amount goes to the College of Art and Art History or 
the Friends of Art and Art History.
Mostkoff is teaching a class called Mint Studio, a facul-
ty-advised and student-run design studio. When a space was temporarily donated to the school, Mostkoff said it was a great opportunity to create this pop-up art show.
“This was all too perfect,” she said. “We should try 
to do this.”
Since the beginning of Fall, students have focused on 
The Fridge. 
“The purpose is to show students the business side of 
art,” she said. “We’re bringing it out of the school setting and bringing it into the community setting.”UF art school hosts pop-up shop
ART
By Rebecca Santana
Avenue Writer 
With October just around the 
corner, people are looking for a little bit of fright. “The Rocky Hor-ror Picture Show” aims to please by giving its audience chilling en-
tertainment. 
From this past Wednesday un-
til Oct. 26, High Dive will host live 
performances of a local theater troupe known as Frankie and The Pretenders every Wednesday, with the exception of Oct. 19 — the show will be Oct. 20 that week.
In 2013, Regina Kypriandes 
dreamt up this lively event, and her friends, Pat Lavery and Shay Smith, helped Kypriandes make it happen. Since 2013, Smith and Lavery, the promoter at High Dive, have continued the tradition in the Gainesville area. 
Lavery is the executive pro-
ducer of the show, and Smith is 
the director. By working together, 
the pair has been able to create an interesting event that has mass ap-peal. Smith is also an actress in the show who proudly performs with her troupe. The event has grown within the past few years and was expanded to ﬁ  ve shows to accom-modate high demand.
Lavery said the audience is 
extremely lively, and that their 
“participation is just as important 
as the movie and the actors in-volved.” Some of the audience is completely new to the show, but others have seen it plenty of times and are all too anxious to chime in. 
High Dive provides some 
props, but most fans bring their own and participate in the show at 
any possible moment. Fan partici-
pation makes each show unique and unlike any other performance on another night.
This event has grown to be-
come a Gainesville tradition over the past three years, and many are excited to participate.
Tickets for the event can be 
found on ticketﬂ  y.com and are $5 ahead of time and $7 at the door. Doors open at 8 p.m., and the show starts at 9 p.m. for most shows, but there will be a special science-ﬁ  ction double feature Oct. 20.
People of all ages are welcome 
to watch the show, but anyone 
under 18 must be escorted by a 
parent or guardian. Various food trucks will also be present at the shows.Horror at High Dive
LOCAL
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Fridge, UF’s pop-up art show, will 
open Friday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-30-16-29-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
10-12-16-20-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2
Beautiful 2BR townhouse in Bellamy Forge.  Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, basket-ball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Close to Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277     10-5-16-5-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor in LR. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D, Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    9-30-16-2-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!
Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AASAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Designated drivers are the greatestStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
ACROSS
1 “La Vie en Rose”
singer
5 Ashtray array
10 Interest greatly
14 “There __ joy in
Mudville ... ”
15 Livid
16 Cambodian
currency
17 Lump18 Hasbro soldier19 Raison d’__20 Lake Michigan
port
22 Dietary need24 TriBeCa
neighbor
26 Backspaced over27 1974 hit with a
Spanish titlemeaning “Youare”
31 Jedi Council VIP
33 VCR successor34 Brief meeting?
36 Army rank above
maj.
41 Told ... and a hint
to this puzzle’s
six sets of circles
44 Ivy League sch.
45 “Rebel Without a
Cause” star
James
46 Where a retriever
may be retrieved:Abbr.
47 Blacken49 Prepare51 Kansas motto
word
55 Omit57 “Moby-Dick” crew59 Made possible64 Italian air
65 Cumberland Gap
explorer
67 Hall of Fame
linebacker Junior
68 Copper that’s
mostly zinc
69 Corned beef __
70 Not fem.71 __-Ball72 Construction rod73 Long haul
DOWN
1 Draft item often
traded
2 Vacation
destination
3 Erelong4 Snap,
commercially
5 Michigan Stadium
nickname, with
“The”
6 Heep of trouble?7 __ Mahal
8 Camaro roof
option
9 What 15-Across
people do
10 Former Fox
News anchor
Van Susteren
11 Ceremonies12 Where eagles
hatch
13 Some of this and
some of that
21 JFK-to-Heathrow
flier, once
23 Dental care
name
25 Seafood found in
beds
27 Website for
handmade art
28 Electrolux
spokeswomanKelly
29 Pernicious30 Something
underfoot
32 DOL division35 Scandinavian
literary work
37 Try out
38 Toy gun ammo39 Almost never40 Six-part
undergrad exam
42 Money43 Tech graduate48 Abet, in a way50 Grime-fighting org.51 Spy plane
acronym52 Toondom ogre
53 “Common
Sense” writer
54 Give a big lift
56 Uganda neighbor58 40-decibel unit60 Realty ad abbr.
61 “I am a very
foolish fond old
man” speaker
62 Comfort63 “Fore!”
66 Sun or moon
By Bruce Venzke and Gail Grabowski©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/29/1609/29/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, September 29, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SALES ASSOCIATESGainesville Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram has sales opportunities for enthusiastic candi -
dates and we're willing to provide additional training to help develop your talents!  We are looking for full and part time associates and can offer a flexible schedule for students.  Many of our leads are inbound through the internet – we need staff to follow up via email and phone calls to get customers the information and pricing on our new and pre-owned vehicles.
We are a family owned dealership offering 
excellent working conditions with THE BEST 
PAY ON MAIN STREET!  If you have strong 
customer service skills and the drive to be successful, we want to talk to you!  Valid driver’s license & clean driving record re-quired.  Must be willing to submit to a back-ground check & drug screen.  EOE/DFWP  
 Send resume togreatdealershipjobs@gmail.com or apply in person, Mon - Fri; 9am - 4pm   3000 N Main Street ▪ Gainesville    9-30-16-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
PT janitorial office/home/apartment cleaners needed ASAP day and night shifts available. Weekly pay and gas distributed $8.50/hr and must own and drive own car..If interested please call 352-214-0868      10-3-16-5-14
Babysitter wanted, afternoons/evenings, $12/hr for kids age 7-13. Help drive kids from school/to activities, light housekeeping (dish-es, laundry, feed meals), play with 7 yr old, help with homework. Babysitting experience and car required, must be reliable. Email re-sume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu    9-30-16-3-14
DATA MINING RESEARCHER WANTEDPT, work your own hours.Paid per job / project.Email resume: jholifield1@gmail.com    10-3-3-14
16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida defensive lineman Joey 
Ivie is injured, plus four more things you should know ahead of the football team's matchup with Vanderbilt on Saturday, pg. 15.T ebow homers in first at bat
Fomer Florida quarterback Tim T ebow hit a home run in the first at-bat of his 
first game as a member of the New York Mets' Florida Instructional League T eam on Wednesday. T ebow went 1-for-6 with no strikeouts in the game, according to Luis T orres of TCPalm.comTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
IT WAS THE GATORS' FIRST  
LOSS SINCE AUG. 26.
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
During the first set of Wednesday night’s 
matchup between No. 5 Florida and Ken-
tucky, UF outside hitter Carli Snyder drilled a ball off a perfect set from Allie Monserez. 
And like an impenetrable wall, UK’s front-
court duo of Emily Franklin and Brooke Mor-gan stopped it.Riding the second-longest win streak in 
the country, the Gators (12-2, 2-1 Southeast-
ern Conference), played in front of a packed 
and raucous crowd at the Lemerand Athletic 
Center and came out flat, losing the match in 
a clean sweep to the Wildcats (10-4, 3-0 SEC).
Down 2-0 in the match, the Gators man-
aged to take an early lead in the third set.
But it didn’t matter.
Florida struggled in all phases of the game, 
especially on defense.
For a team that boasts some of the most 
talented defensive specialists in the country, including the reigning SEC Defensive Player of the Week in libero Caroline Knop, the 
Gators had no answer for Kentucky’s Leah 
Edmond.
The freshman outside hitter dominated the 
Gators, slamming down 19 kills to the tune of 
a .325 hitting percentage. 
“She’s hitting over Rhamat (Alhassan),” 
UF coach Mary Wise said of Edmond. “She’s 
a very special player.”
Knop, who registered a career-high 31 digs 
against Ole Miss just two matches ago, and Kentucky snaps Florida's win streak in sweep
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Two years ago, Gabby Seiler was a Georgia 
Bulldog. 
Last year, she spent the season sitting on 
the bench after NCAA transfer rules kept her from playing for a year.
Now, the redshirt junior has started all 10 
games as a midfielder for the Gators and has become a big part of their offensive attack this season.
“Her experience is a huge help,” UF coach 
Becky Burleigh said on Wednesday. “And she got to train with us all last year so that helped in terms of developing cohesion with people on our team.”
During her sophomore season in Athens, 
Seiler led her team with nine goals and nine 
assists for 27 points and ranked in the top five 
in the Southeastern Conference in goals.
This season, she is trying to pick up where 
she left off with some help from her team-mates.“(The transition) has been really easy. My 
teammates have made it really easy,” Seiler said. 
“They kind of make me feel like I have al-
ready been playing with them since they’ve 
been there.”
But her transition has also changed her 
game and her style of play.
While she might have been the go-to player Former Georgia soccer player now a key component for UFBy Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Kevin O’Sullivan isn’t leaving Flori-
da any time soon.
The baseball coach signed a 10-year 
deal worth $1.25 million annually with 
a $500,000 signing bonus on Wednes-day, according to multiple reports. D1baseball.com first reported the news.
The university’s 
athletic department 
has been criticized 
in the past for not 
devoting enough money and attention to its baseball team, 
which consistently 
ranks as one of the 
best in the country. 
Lately, that trend has started to turn.
O’Sullivan’s extension comes just a 
few weeks after Florida revealed a $100 million plan to improve its athletic fa-cilities, including renovations to McK-ethan Stadium. UF’s baseball stadium will receive shade structuring over parts of the stands, additional seating behind home plate, new club seating, a revamped press box and improved player facilities.
The Gators have reached the College 
World Series five of the last seven years and ended last season as the 6th ranked team in the country. 
Under O’Sullivan, Florida has won 
three SEC Championships and two SEC Tournaments, and the coach was named the SEC Coach of the Year in 2010 and 2014.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgO’Sullivan 
gets 10-year extension
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Coach Mary Wise calls out instructions to her team during Florida's 3-1 win over Marshall on Sept. 17. "The road caught up to us, " 
Wise said after UF's 3-0 loss to Kentucky on Wednesday. "My team is incredibly fatigued. " 
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15BASEBALL
Seiler has started every gameO'Sullivan
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
on offense at Georgia, she now plays with 
senior forward Savannah Jordan, the clear leader of Florida’s team.
Jordan leads the team in points, goals, 
assists and shots.
Seiler, however, has still had a big im-
pact on the Gators' success so far, even if her role might be different than what she’s used to.
She ranks second on the team in shots (24) and is tied for fourth in assists (two).
On the road at Kentucky on Sept. 8, she 
scored her first goal in a Florida uniform, her only one of the season so far.
“I love playing with her. I know in the 
midfield, everyone loves playing with her,” sophomore midfielder Sarah Troccoli said. “And she is so dynamic. You know, we have been putting her in the backline, too. It’s really cool to play with someone like 
that.”
Seiler and the Gators, who are coming 
off a 2-0 win against Tennessee on Sunday, are focusing on their next SEC opponent, LSU, who they play on the road on Friday.
“I think offensively, they are pretty 
strong,” Seiler said.
 “I know they haven’t had the best start 
to their season, but every team in the SEC 
is pretty competitive and everyone seems to play their best against us. They know that Florida is a huge target.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org SOCCER,  from pg 14Seiler ranks second on the team in shotsFIVE THINGS TO KNOW AHEAD 
OF FLORIDA’S FOOTBALL GAME 
AGAINST VANDERBILT 
• Defensive tackle Joey Ivie, who started Florida’s first 
four games, will be out 4-5 weeks after injuring his 
hand, coach Jim McElwain said Wednesday.
• Receiver Brandon Powell will be eligible to play 
against Vanderbilt despite being ejected in the second half of Saturday’s game against T ennessee. 
• Freshman defensive end Antonneous Clayton, Flori-da’s No. 1 recruit in the class of 2016 who has yet to appear in a game, will play against Vanderbilt. McEl-
wain said Clayton has gotten his weight up to 250 
pounds. 
• McElwain wouldn’t confirm his backup plan if starting quarterback Austin Appleby goes down on Saturday. He said only that it could be “one of the freshmen, or 
could be Luke (Del Rio). "
• For reasons unknown, McElwain has taken to calling 
sophomore defensive lineman CeCe Jefferson “Carl. ” 
When asked why, he declined to comment. 
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Joey Ivie (91) points to the crowd during Florida's 32-0 win over North T exas on Sept. 17 at Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium. Ivie will be out for 4-5 weeks with a hand injury, according to coach Jim McElwain. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Gabby Seiler (38) celebrates with teammates during Florida's 3-2 win over UCF on Sept. 18 at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
freshman defensive specialist Allie Gregory strug-gled against the Wildcats’ attack.
Kentucky, powered by the 6-foot-2 Edmond, to-
taled a whopping 49 kills, spreading the Gators’ de-fenders all over the court.
On the offensive end, it wasn’t much better for 
Florida.
An otherwise high-powered attack was rendered 
useless against the Wildcats, in large part due to UK libero Ashley Dusek, who had a double-digit dig per-formance, and a ferocious frontcourt that stuffed the Gators on 11 attempts.
Snyder, Florida’s leader in kills (173) and kills 
per set (3.84), had an unusually rough night.
The junior, who hit -.083 in the first set, tallied 
only six kills against the Wildcats.
To make matters worse for Florida, the team 
couldn’t look to its captain — 6-foot-4 middle block-er Alhassan — for consistency. 
The junior All-American registered just five kills 
and struggled with her accuracy, hitting .111. 
Alex Holston was the lone bright spot for Florida.The senior right-side hitter was Florida’s leading 
point scorer in the match, slamming down 15 kills and scoring 15.5 points.
“I don’t think we really had our chemistry to-
night,” Holston said. “We were being a little too conservative instead of going all out for it.
“I think Kentucky just made a lot of great plays 
tonight offensively and defensively.”
Wise chalked up fatigue as a potential reason for 
her team’s struggles against the Wildcats.
Florida recently came off a two-game road trip 
and has logged plenty of miles so far this season.
“The road caught up to us,” Wise said. “My team 
is incredibly fatigued.”
Regardless of fatigue or mental errors, Wise's 
sentiment remained the same: Kentucky played lights out.
“Kentucky was too good,” she said. 
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgVOLLEY,  from pg 14Snyder struggled16   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2016
1
1312111098765432
  
   
  
   
  
 NNW 3rd St
SE 1st St
NE 3rd StSW 3rd StSW 2nd Ave
SW 5th AveSE 1st Ave
SW 1st Ave
Liquid
GingerManuel’s 
Vintage 
Room
Hippodrome
SUN
CENTERSE 2nd Ave
SE 2nd PlNW 2nd St SW 2nd St
SW 1st St
S Main St N Main St
E University Ave
Gator
Baked
HAPPY HOUR EVERDAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
