We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 77 FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016
UF gymnastics opens season on
the road against familiar foe
Florida won last year’s matchup, pg. 13
UF ranked top school for military veterans
The ranking was based on services provided, pg. 4
News around the nation
“Afﬂ  uenza” teen, medical marijuana and monkey selﬁ  es, pg. 5Want to work for us?
Stop by our open house today from noon to 5 
p.m. We’re looking for contributing writers, copy editors, photographers, sports writers and columnists. We hope to see you there!
ABOUT $1,400 WORTH OF 
ELECTRONICS WAS STOLEN.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
@martindvassolo
Gainesville Police arrested a local man 
Wednesday night after police said he burglar-
ized two Gainesville Place Apartments units over Winter Break.
Between Dec. 30 and Jan. 3, Neil Andrew 
Dortly, 42, stole $1,400 worth of electronics and other property from two residents at the complex, located in the 2800 block of SW 35th Place, according to a police report.
Dortly, who works for the apartment’s 
cleaning crew, entered the two apartments on a work order. However, he used his keys to un-lock two doors that weren’t included in the job, according to the report. Dortly stole a laptop, 
tablet, Hoverboard, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 gaming system, according to 
the report.
Both residents said they 
left their doors locked be-fore leaving for vacation. After returning and ﬁ  nding their property missing, they soon suspected the clean-ing crew, according to the report.
On Monday, Dortly sold a resident’s Nin-
tendo 3DS game console to an Archer Road GameStop, according to the report.
Police later searched Dortly’s home and 
found some of the other missing property, which Dortly’s wife told police she was suspi-cious of, according to the report.
“We don’t own that — get it out of here,” 
she said to police.
Police arrested Dortly on charges of bur-
glary, larceny, dealing in stolen property and fraud. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains 
in lieu of a $130,000 bond.  Apartment janitor arrested for Winter Break burglariesBy Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
knewberg@uﬂ  .edu
@k_newberg
Pablo Valencia’s parents wanted him to 
go to college.
Even before he knew what college was, 
he knew he was going. His father gradu-
ated from Florida International University in 1994 with a degree in therapeutic recre-ation. He was the ﬁ  rst in his family to go to college.
Valencia’s mother never got the chance 
to attend college, a fate she wanted to change for her son.
On Tuesday, the 18-year-old fulﬁ  lled his 
parents’ dream as he started his ﬁ  rst week of college along with about 250 other fresh-men as part of the Innovation Academy, a program at UF in which students take class-
es during Spring and Summer.
“I’m sure he’s going to excel,” said his 
mother, Carolina Valencia. “He’s deﬁ  nitely 
gifted. ”
      
Valencia didn’t realize he would be wait-
ing until Spring to start his college career.
As a Gainesville resident for the past 
eight years, he knew he had been a Gator his whole life. But when he applied to UF IA freshman fulﬁ  lls parents’ dreams
Dortly
CAMPUS
By Monica Humphries
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will now have the opportunity 
to visit the island of Hispaniola this summer.
The trip will be May 9 through June 4, and 
it will begin in Port-Salut, Haiti, and end in the Dominican Republic.
“This trip is about showing students the 
connections across the islands,” said Jocelyn Widmer, the program director and assistant scholar for online degree programs in the De-partment of Urban & Regional Planning at UF.
This program is unusual because students 
will be working with companies in Haiti and the Dominican Republic. It focuses on sustain-ability, resiliency and social justice.
The trip will be split between the Puntacana 
Ecological Foundation, where students will investigate how communities are impacted through local investments, and the Restavek Freedom Foundation, where students will work with local teams to explore technology.
“I think it is a super awesome way to con-
nect my interests of water and the Caribbean,” said Kyle Dost, a ﬁ  rst-year master’s student in 
urban and regional planning.
“We all think that we can change the world. 
What this trip will be about is regulating that 
ambition with the realities and more system-atically giving students the tools to change the world,” Widmer said.
Excursions are incorporated into the trip, 
including time in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, and time on the beach. Students can receive up to 
six credits in the program.
The cost of the trip is $3,655 for undergrad-
uates, not including airfare. However, ﬁ  nancial 
aid and scholarships are available.
Applications are due March 18. For more 
information, stop by the UF International Cen-ter or email Widmer at widmerj@uﬂ  .edu.New study-
abroad trip oﬀ  ered
FLASH DANCE
The Florida Cicerones dance in a ﬂ  ash mob on Turlington Plaza on Thursday afternoon to a mashup of pop and dance 
songs. The dance promoted the Cicerone application due at noon on Saturday.
Aaron Albright/Alligator StaffHe’s always felt like a Gator
SEE FRESHMAN,  PAGES 8-9Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Friday Program — new year spe-
cial at Krishna House
Come and attend this week’s Friday Program at Krishna House to celebrate the new year. The 
program will start tonight at 7 
p.m. with mantra meditation fol-lowed by an ice breaker session and a talk on a special topic. Dinner will be served at 8:15 p.m. Make every week complete by attending Friday programs at Krishna House. No registration required! Come directly at 7 p.m. 
Please join us at Krishna House, 
situated at 214 NW 14th St.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Let it Glow themed event tonight from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature laser tag, a GloCade and a show from men-
talist Scott Xavier. The event will 
also feature two showings of the movie “The Martian” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free nachos during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum 
of one guest to the event.
Kathleen Benson: Writing 
African-American Children’s 
LiteratureAward-winning children’s lit-erature author Kathleen Benson will discuss her latest work, “Draw What You See,” on the 
life and art of Benny Andrews, 
and Benson’s long career writ-ing African-American children’s literature and history Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. Andrews was a noted African-American painter who in-terpreted suffering and injustice, such as the Holocaust, Native 
American forced migration and 
Hurricane Katrina, in his creative works. The talk is part of the Baldwin Library Speaker Series.
Got something going on?Want to see it in this space? Send an 
email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehen-
ley@alligator.org. To ensure pub-lication in the next day’s news-
paper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the pa-per. Press releases will not appear in the paper. 
CORRECTION:
In an article printed Thursday, the Alligator initially reported that students can access the bot-tom two floors of the Reitz Union. This is not correct; the extension 
is not open. Also, the cost of the 
project is $70.7 million, whereas the figure $75 million includes renovations to the existing build-ing. The Alligator initially report-ed otherwise.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 77
HIGH  73° LOW  57°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Jessica Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, 
  Michael Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga, Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,     
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks  Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
UF researchers create purple limes
You could come across a purple lime and red orange in 
Florida in the near future.
Manjul Dutt and Jude Grosser from the UF Citrus Re-
search and Education Center genetically modiﬁ  ed limes to 
contain speciﬁ  c genes found in grapes and blood oranges, which are a speciﬁ  c type of orange with a red center.
The limes were created using orange and grape genes 
in an effort to replace the traditional method of using green ﬂ  uorescent proteins from jellyﬁ  sh, which are used as color markers to track genes.
“What we wanted to do was utilize a reporter gene 
system that was from plants itself and therefore more con-
sumer friendly,” Dutt said.
The new color marker, anthocyanin, is an antioxidant 
that has multiple health beneﬁ  ts, Grosser said.
The limes were developed using genes from the 
“Moro” blood orange and the “Ruby Seedless” grape and 
could be seen on the market for purchase in a couple of years, Grosser said.
Grosser said the plant would serve as more of a niche 
product, as an ornamental plant, but the hope is the plant 
will be able to change public opinion on genetically modi-
ﬁ  ed agriculture.
“There’s a lot of negativism against GMOs, so it might 
help in convincing the public to view them in a more posi-
tive light,” said Grosser.
- Alena PoulinRESEARCH ROUNDUP
Study finds charters schools are 
losing teachers
Florida charter schools are having difﬁ  culties keep-
ing teachers.  
UF researchers have found that Florida’s charter 
schools lost about 10 percent of their teachers in the 
2011-12 and 2014-15 school years, said Nancy Thorn-qvist, the project manager of the study. The turnover rate for that time was 4 percent at traditional public 
schools.
Normally, when researchers look at turnover, they 
see how many teachers left at the end of the academic 
year, she said.
“A lot of them will tough it out until the end of the 
school year and switch in the summer,” Thornqvist said.
But teachers at charter schools were switching in 
the second half of the school year, she said.
The study didn’t look at why teachers at charter 
schools switch jobs, Thornqvist said.
When teachers leave during the school year, it can 
hurt students’ learning, she said. Teachers brought in halfway through the school year may not get the same 
training as teachers brought in during summer.
“Any school, whether it be a traditional school or a 
charter school, wants to always be improving,” Thorn-
qvist said.
- Caitlin OstroffResearch study participants have 
more trust in science
UF researchers have found people who participate 
in research studies have a greater trust in science.  
Over ﬁ  ve semesters, from 2013 to 2015, UF re-
searchers studied how participation in research affects 
students’ trust in science among students enrolled in a UF course called The Insects. 
Mostly non-science majors took the course, said 
Andrea Lucky, a co-author on the study.
At the beginning of the course, Lucky said she 
asked students about their trust in science. At ﬁ  rst, students gave neutral responses and said they had some knowledge and trust.
“People came into the course, as we expected, not 
knowing very much about the topic,” she said.
During the class, students participated in a research 
project, she said. 
When students completed the project, they were 
asked about their trust in science again. Even if stu-dents didn’t gain a lot of knowledge about insects, they showed more trust.
“It seemed like students were really able to make 
this leap,” Lucky said. “Trust in science does increase, even if knowledge in content does not.”
- Caitlin Ostroff4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016
CAMPUS
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
@MelissaGomez004
If it weren’t for the support for military 
veterans at UF, Victor Lopez, 27, would 
have dropped out of school.
That type of support is why UF was re-
cently named one of the top schools in the ninth edition of the Military Advanced Education & Transition’s Guide to Colleges & Universities. The journal rates schools based on military culture, financial assis-tance, flexibility, general support, online support and on-campus support, according to its website.
The journal, published by the KMI Media 
Group, rates institutions based on informa-tion provided by the schools.
Out of the six categories, UF ranked high-
est on general support and on-campus sup-port.
“If we can be a resource for them on cam-
pus, then we can get them any resource they need off campus,” said Anthony DeSantis, UF’s associate dean of students.
DeSantis said UF is looking to increase 
on-campus services for veterans at UF, start-ing with orientation.
“One of our goals this year is to expand 
the orientation program for students in the professional schools,” he said.
Lopez, who transferred to UF last Fall, 
said he didn’t know anybody at the school.
The Collegiate Veterans Success Center 
in Yon Hall gave him a place to talk to others who shared a military experience, he said.
He pointed out a board decorated with military uniform patches from branches of the military and photos of men and women in uniform. He said it’s a place for veterans to talk about their experiences.
“The reason that a lot of us come in here 
is because of that,” he said, his gaze on the pictures.
Brett Surles, a student veteran who works 
at the center, said it provides help with grants, scholarships and job opportunities.
“This place keeps us connected with ev-
erything on campus,” the 25-year-old UF chemical engineering junior said.UF ranked top school for military veteran services 
Aaron Albright/Alligator Staff
RELAXING BY THE LAKE
Laura Davis (front), a 20-year-old UF art education junior, sits with Annie Thompson, an 18-year-old UF art freshman, at Lake Alice on Thursday evening. “We’d thought it’d be cool to come out here and chill and draw, ” Davis said.
THE PATIENT AND 
DRIVER ARE OK.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
@martindvassolo
A Levy County ambulance 
crashed and killed a deer early 
Thursday morning on its way to 
the hospital.
At about 1:25 a.m., the ambu-
lance drove a patient east on State Road 24 when it hit a deer cross-ing the road, said Florida Highway Patrol spokeswoman Sgt. Tracy 
Hisler-Pace.
The ambulance was taking a 
patient to the Malcom Randall Vet-
erans Affairs Medical Center when it struck the deer with the right side 
of its bumper, according to an FHP press release.
Although the deer died, nei-
ther the driver nor the passengers 
were injured, said Alesha Rinaudo, the assistant to the director of the Levy County Department of Public Safety.
The ambulance was damaged 
and towed away, Rinaudo said.
“We did dispatch another am-
bulance to go to that location of the deer incident, and they moved the patient to the other ambulance and 
completed transport,” she said.
FHP arrived about 10 min-
utes after the crash and estimated 
the damage to cost about $5,000, 
Hisler-Pace said.
The deer, she said, must have 
been larger than average due to the 
extent of the crash.
“It was a pretty good pop,” she 
said. Ambulance kills deer 
en route to hospital 
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
@hunterewilliam
About 32 members of the Alachua County 
Labor Coalition rallied at City Hall on Thurs-
day to demand an ordinance raising the mini-mum wage to nearly $15 an hour for city em-ployees over the next five years.
Several members spoke during public 
comment at the commission meeting, but the commission decided not to meet their demands, despite some support from a few commissioners.
“It is my anticipation that regardless of 
what any committee might be doing, the com-mission as a whole will be addressing these matters in a budget context within a matter of months,” said Mayor Ed Braddy.
Several supporters of the wage increase 
said they were disappointed by the commis-sion’s response. 
“They’re putting it into a future budget 
that may or may not happen,” said Jeremiah Tattersall, who helped organize the rally.
“I feel like we were blown off,” said Sheila 
Payne, another coalition member.
James Ingle, a 38-year-old electrician, told 
the commission that paying a low minimum wage to employees hurts the community by causing some people to save money and leave. “I really think we are undercutting our-
selves by not making sure we are investing in our community and in our workforce,” Ingle said.
Lauren Byers said the rally went well, but 
she was disappointed with Braddy’s “vague” response.
“Months could be six months, and that’s 
not a time frame we’re willing to work with,” the 24-year-old UF history senior said.
She and others said they’d continue to 
press the city to pass an ordinance raising the minimum wage. 
During public comment, 2016 Gainesville 
mayoral candidate Donald Shepherd Sr. ex-pressed his support for raising the minimum wage to $15.
“I represent the people, and I would like 
this living wage passed,” Shepherd said, no-tably upset.
It would be an increase from 100 percent 
of the Federal Poverty Level, currently $11.66 an hour, to 125 percent, according to the co-alition.
“People who work should be able to sup-
port their families,” Payne said.Coalition demands city raise minimum wage to $15
Nicole Gomez/Alligator Staff
Lauren Byers, a 24-year-old UF history senior, speaks during a city commission meet-ing on Thursday evening. Byers said she was disappointed with Mayor Ed Braddy’s response to the Alachua County Labor Coalition’s demand for a $15 minimum wage.
“Months could be six months, and that’s 
not a time frame we’re willing to work 
with.”
Lauren Byers  
24-year-old UF history seniorFRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
We are seeking volunteers for a study of pain in 
the face and jaw (TMD pain).
(352) 273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
As students return from Winter 
Break, they often set their sights on 
thrift shop doors.
Daimion Roberts, a Salvation 
Army administrator, said students 
need to ﬁ  ll their new homes at the 
start of each semester.
“A lot of them have changed 
apartments and are looking for bar-gain pieces,” he said.
The Salvation Army thrift store, 
located at 55 NW 23rd Ave., will sell everything for less than $100 until the end of next week.
Brandon Steriti, an 18-year-old 
civil engineering freshman, started shopping at thrift stores on his lunch breaks.
“Some of the clothing is bet-
ter than what you would buy in a store,” he said.
While he usually hopes to un-
cover vintage hats and jackets, Steriti 
said his sights are changing.
“Next year, when I get an apart-
ment, I will go (to thrift stores) to 
look for furniture,” he said.Thomas Fasulo, the book man 
at Haven Hospice Attic Resale, said his store has more ﬂ  oor space than 
any other nonproﬁ  t organization in 
Gainesville.
He said the store, located at 300 
NW Eighth Ave., offers more than 3,000 books, along with $1 shirts and furniture that ranges from about $9 up to $300.
He said the store beneﬁ  ts Haven 
Hospice, which treats people with 
advanced illnesses, and he hopes 
students will give it a chance.
“We sometimes talk about how 
Haven is the best-kept secret,” he said.  Have a thrifty new year
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
@hunterewilliam
Gainesville City Commission 
discussed the option of buying a controversial biomass plant Thurs-day during an informational session about the option.
The biomass plant has been a 
center of harsh criticism in recent years, with opponents blaming it for leading, at least in part, to high Gainesville Regional Utilities bills.
GRU General Manager Ed Bielar-
ski Jr. said discussions were under-way with the Gainesville Renewable Energy Center, which owns the bio-
mass plant, to arrange for negotia-
tions.
Buying the plant is one of many 
options to withdraw from or rene-gotiate a 30-year biomass contract between GRU and GREC, commis-
sioners said.Mayor Ed Braddy has said any 
plan to purchase the biomass would 
have to beneﬁ  t the city and GRU customers relative to the current situation.
Bielarski said the goal is to come 
up with a plan that beneﬁ  ts GRU, its 
customers and GREC.
“I want us to hear ‘what are the 
pros and cons?’…and then we’ll 
proceed from that,” Braddy said.
Bielarski said he will move for-
ward in discussions with GREC.
“It won’t be anything decided,” 
he said. “It will be trying to reach an agreement that I can bring back 
here and talk to the commission and 
have it publicly vetted.”
Commissioners are concerned about conﬁ  dential negotiations be-
tween GRU and GREC if talks were 
to progress, and they said they don’t want to make the same mistake pre-vious commissioners made when they approved the biomass contract.
“It’s very typical of any kind of 
negotiation to have a non-disclosure (agreement)… because you’re look-ing for a ﬁ  nal product to come out 
that will be fully vetted,” Bielarski 
said.
City Commissioner Craig Carter 
said he’d like negotiations to be more transparent.
“That would be a problem for 
me... because (GREC has) con-trolled this from the very beginning and I would love to see us actually 
start controlling this,” he said.
“I think the people that are rep-
resenting the citizens need to be in-
volved with this one,” Carter added.
Thursday’s discussion came af-
ter GREC ﬁ  led for arbitration against GRU last month, claiming that GRU was withholding about $223,000 in payments. GRU later agreed to pay 
the money. City discusses buying biomass plant    
FAMIL Y TREASURES THRIFT SHOP
710 N. Main St.
JUNIOR LEAGUE THRIFT SHOP
430 N. Main St.
GAINESVILLE COMMUNITY MIN-
ISTRY THRIFT SHOPS
5001 NW 34th St.
News around the nation: Associated Press roundupIt could be an option
“I think the people that are 
representing the citizens need 
to be involved with this one.”
Craig Carter
Gainesville city commissioner
‘Affluenza’ teen’s mom returned to Texas to face charge
FORT WORTH, Texas — The mother of a fugitive teen 
who used an “afﬂ  uenza” defense after killing four people in 
a drunken crash was returned to Texas on Thursday to face a charge of helping her son evade capture.
Tonya Couch, who was deported from Mexico last week, 
arrived on a ﬂ  ight from Los Angeles and was taken to the Tar-rant County Jail in handcuffs and leg irons. She is expected to be arraigned Friday on a charge of hindering the apprehen-sion of a felon. Her bond was set at $1 million.
Authorities believe Tonya and her 18-year-old son, Ethan 
Couch, ﬂ  ed Texas in November as prosecutors investigated whether Ethan had violated his probation in the deadly 2013 drunken driving wreck. They disappeared shortly after a video surfaced showing what appears to be Ethan at a party 
where people were drinking.Schools mull medical marijuana policies over student use
AUBURN, Maine — After years of trying to keep marijua-
na out of schools, educators across the country are grappling 
with how to administer cannabis to students with prescrip-tions for it.
Medical marijuana has been legal in some states for two 
decades, but school districts and lawmakers are only now starting to grapple with thorny issues about student use of a drug still illegal under federal law.
The possibility of medical marijuana in schools raises a 
number of questions for school ofﬁ  cials, such as who will administer it, how to prevent it from being redistributed by students and even the legality of having it on campus. Only three of the 23 states where medical marijuana is legal have seen schools or state ofﬁ  cials set up rules, according to the 
pro-reform Marijuana Policy Project.Judge: Monkey cannot own selfie photos copyright
SAN FRANCISCO — A macaque monkey who snapped 
clear, perfectly framed selﬁ  es that would have made the Kar-
dashians proud still cannot own a copyright to the photos because it’s an animal, not a human.
U.S. District Judge William Orrick said Wednesday that 
Congress did not extend federal copyright law to animals. That means the monkey cannot control the rights to the pho-tos and proﬁ  t from their distribution.
The ruling came in a novel lawsuit ﬁ  led last year by People 
for the Ethical Treatment of Animals that sought a court order allowing PETA to represent the monkey and let it administer all proceeds from the photos for the beneﬁ  t of the monkey, which PETA identiﬁ  ed as 6-year-old Naruto, and other crest-ed macaques living on a reserve on the Indonesian island of 
Sulawesi.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
As the ﬁ  rst week of the new year draws to a close, so too 
does the ﬁ  rst week of Spring semester. As anyone who has 
ever picked up an Alligator on a Friday could tell you, this means it’s time for the most beloved of traditions, the one thing that keeps the Opinions section sane after a week of 
depressing headlines and deadlines... 
Darts & Laurels
Manatees... man, what a tease! Inappropriate wordplay 
from “Children’s Hospital” aside, the manatee has long been 
one of Florida’s most beloved fauna oddities: What isn’t there to love about a cute, sedentary sea cow with a con-stantly dour expression and whiskers?
Unfortunately, the manatee is best known for its endan-
gered status, brought about by irresponsible boating and gen-eral awfulness on the part of man. Fortunately, it seems as though the manatee has made a tremendous comeback from near-extinction. As reported by the Sun Sentinel on Thurs-day, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service plans to reclassify the manatee from endangered to threatened. Regrettably, these plans of reclassiﬁ  cation came about as a result of a petition by the Paciﬁ  c Legal Foundation, whom the Sentinel describes 
as “a free-market legal advocacy group that represents prop-
erty owners on the Gulf coast.”
OK, so the plan to adjust the manatee’s status is the direct 
consequence of land developers looking to squeeze a few more bucks out of Florida’s western coastline. For the sake of staying positive, let’s just celebrate that there are roughly 6,350 manatees out and about, a far cry from where they once were.
Until we provide our more cynical editorial on the mat-
ter next week, we’d like to offer a gray, rotund Laurel to 
Florida’s manatee population for persevering in the face of man-made awfulness.
Speaking of awfulness, Florida Gov. Rick Scott! No, that 
wasn’t a grammatical error, Gov. Scott is literally the embodi-ment of awfulness. No longer content with being compared to Voldemort, Gov. Scott sought to top himself this week by publishing an op-ed praising his personal friend Donald Trump in USA Today.
“I know Donald Trump personally, and while I currently 
have no plans to endorse a candidate before Florida’s March presidential primary, there is no doubt that Donald is a man who speaks and tweets his mind freely. But I don’t think his ability to give the most interesting interviews or speeches is the only thing that has him leading in the polls,” he writes, all the while cursing Muggles under his breath.
Yes, Tom Riddle, that’s actually EXACTLY why the talk-
ing orange garbage can has netted large poll numbers. It’s 
a crowded ﬁ  eld, and he says awful things to keep his aw-
ful face in the minds of America’s more malleable populace. Rather than giving Gov. Scott a Dart or two, we’ve chosen 
instead to throw them in the direction of any and all Hor-cruxes we can ﬁ  nd.
Today is the 68th birthday of the world’s greatest living 
pop artist, David Bowie. Today also sees the release of his 26th studio album, “Blackstar.” In case you missed them, sidewalks in downtown Gainesville have been absolutely lit-
tered with the new album’s cover art and title. Lest you think 
we’re complaining, let us reassure you we feel absolutely honored that Columbia Records — the label that releases Bowie’s music in the U.S. — somehow thinks Gainesville represents a big enough market for them to spend their guer-rilla marketing budget on.
For permanently altering pop culture and giving the weir-
dos and artistically inclined of the world innumerable an-thems to unite around, David Bowie gets a glammed-out, 
constantly ch-ch-ch-ch-changing Laurel. Now that it’s actually 2016, the presiden-tial race just got a whole bunch scarier.
It was easy not to worry much about 
the race all the way back in 2015, when 2016 was nothing but a whimsical imag-
inary number far away in the distance. Today, it’s objectively terrifying. Seven years into an Obama presidency is a relatively comfortable place to be, as long as you don’t consider it might all go to shit come November. The next president could very well be a Republican, a proto-fascist demagogue, a crotchety old socialist or a genu-inely sociopathic caricature of that guy from American Dad.
Unpredictability has deﬁ  ned this campaign. As a matter 
of fact, it’s been the one thing we can count on. Hopefully, it won’t be Trump. Lately I’ve been soothing myself with the hope that his biggest impact — apart from inspiring the Freikorps wannabes who currently occupy federal land in Oregon — will be that his campaign will Perot the GOP. He might possibly even split the party in two and create a fac-tion that’s openly racist and one that’s only implicitly so.
The surest bet is that Hillary Clinton will be the Dem-
ocratic nominee. As much as I adore Sanders, the reality 
of the situation is, if elected, he’d be the ﬁ  rst president to 
be literally cruciﬁ  ed immediately upon taking ofﬁ  ce, if not publicly executed in a Pentagon coup. I’m voting for him in the primaries anyway because I have a conscience, but I don’t think the Democratic National Committee will ever allow a Sanders nomination to happen.
That leaves us with a Clinton nomination and more-
than-likely presidency. If you’re into a mix of Republican economic policies and vogue tastes on current social issues, 
that’s an acceptable offer. Personally, I have a few concerns 
about the proposition, but my largest is this: Are we totally sure Hillary Clinton isn’t actually a lizard person?
I’m not saying Clinton is literally a 13-foot-tall lizard 
from another planet posing as a human woman in order to accrue maximum political power. I’ve just noticed a con-spicuous lack of evidence to the contrary of that proposi-tion. On the other hand, if Clinton really were an unearthly reptilian sent here to manipulate us into hand-ing over America’s nuclear launch codes, she’s doing a ﬁ  ne job. Clinton has successfully culti-vated a public image as an unapologetically lib-eral yet sensible and pragmatic candidate. When 
this image is compared to her actual record, 
however, it quite clearly exposes itself for the ruse it is. Whether this charade was constructed to cover for the unbridled narcissism of a mere human or to disguise a possible, true form as a scaly entity from the farthest depths of space is 
a matter of speculation.
Clinton’s stance on the matter of war may as well be, “I 
f---ing love it.” Whether it’s voting to invade Iraq or admit-
ting to having engineered a 2009 coup against Honduras’ 
democratically elected government — plunging the country into chaos and murder, particularly femicide — Clinton’s record is clearly that of a war hawk.
Speaking of war, Clinton’s been a champion of the war 
on the poor. Back when Bill was president, she encour-aged him to enact the  Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act, which effectively served to cripple welfare in this country. This was fresh off her tenure 
as a director of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Since then, Clinton’s 
made many derogatory remarks against poor people and deﬁ  ned households with income up to $250,000 as middle class, all while raking in cash from the same banks who ruined our economy back in 2008.
All of these facts become even more infuriating when 
one considers Clinton’s shameless appropriation of femi-nism, as the reality of her policies should horrify anyone whose feminist icons aren’t also apolitical Top 40 artists. 
Yes, Clinton is a woman. So is Michelle Bachmann. As 
a feminist, I hold exactly zero qualms about criticizing a female candidate whose past, present and future policies harm women outside her immediate social stratum. That’s why I dread inevitably voting for her this November, lizard or not.
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His column appears 
on Fridays. Zorp: Will we vote for a space lizard in 2016?
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
I don’t have an Instagram. I’d 
like to pretend it’s because I’m too subversive for social media, but the truth is I’m too lazy for it. After witnessing my friends 
pour hours into photo capturing and ﬁ  lter selection, I decided it wasn’t worth the effort. Putting on makeup for a ﬁ  rst-day-of-school selﬁ  e? Please. 
Even though I don’t have an 
account, I’ve had substantial expo-sure to Instagram from glancing over the pho-tos of my friends and those they follow. Much 
of what I’ve seen troubles me. Speciﬁ  cally, 
the accounts of Instagram celebrities, or the users whose hundreds of thousands of follow-ers have helped them become online royalty. Instagram celebrities range from ﬁ  tness gurus to club promoters, but a couple things remain consistent: They are beautiful, and they have fun. 
Earlier this year, I ﬂ  ipped through the pic-
tures of a friend’s favorite Instagram celebri-ties. The more pictures I saw, the clearer it became that they couldn’t possibly be an ac-curate representation of anyone’s life. Scat-tered among stunning “candid” photos of beautiful people were other calming, aestheti-cally pleasing images. A colorful, healthy meal poised against a beautiful natural backdrop. Candles next to a frothy bathtub with ﬂ  ower 
petals ﬂ  oating among the bubbles. It was as if 
these people lived their days in a tropical desk-top screensaver and their nights in a glittery music video. No stress, no obligations and, most importantly, nothing ugly. 
While it was blatantly obvious to me these 
pictures were a far cry from reality, my friend felt differently. She would pine over each photo and wish she had the body, clothes and 
lives of those she followed. It seemed to make 
her feel as though she lacked the beauty and comfort she saw in these accounts, and it left her with a sense of inadequacy. It left me sad-dened. 
Recently, an Instagram celebrity named 
Essenna O’Neil deleted her account. Despite having half a million followers, the 19-year-old Australian model was fed up with the 
“contrived perfection” of her account. She 
confessed her posts were fake representations of her life and she often restricted her diet and posed for hours in order to capture the perfect picture of herself. She also admitted she was paid by fashion companies to post images featuring their products. By revealing that none of her photos were candid and she was unhap-py with being an Instagram star, 
O’Neil shattered the illusion of the 
“perfect life” her account sold.
I was thrilled an Instagram ce-
lebrity ﬁ  nally addressed the su-perﬁ  cial nature of the app. How-ever, Instagram celebrity accounts trouble me not only for their falsity, 
but also for the way they celebrate passive lifestyles rather than actual lives. Instagram 
celebrities always seem to be relaxing and 
posing as mere objects rather than real people. 
An Instagram ﬁ  tness guru’s posts don’t 
show her drenched in sweat after a rigorous workout. Instead, they show her coyly look-ing away while sporting a ﬂ  at stomach and fashionable workout spandex. An Instagram celebrity’s beach photos don’t show you the fun parts of a beach trip, the slamming into 
waves and getting sand in your hair. Instead, 
they show her in a bikini, dreamily looking off across the sea as if to say “I got this body by standing still and pondering.” They never seem to actually DO anything. It’s a strange gloriﬁ  cation of easy living in which one’s only purpose is to look pretty and partake in mean-ingless pleasures.
As sad as I ﬁ  nd it, it makes sense these 
“perfect lifestyle” accounts are what helps In-stagram celebrities rise to internet fame. Af-ter all, Instagram is an image-based platform. There are very few truly meaningful things a person can do that can be summarized in a vi-sually appealing snapshot. Pictures of the im-portant things I do in my day would be pretty unexciting — a photo of me buried under a pile of coffee-stained notes, a photo of me ap-
plying to jobs, a photo of me sitting here in my 
torn sweater trying to write this column. None of these things would make for a particularly noteworthy Instagram, but I wouldn’t trade any of them for a thousand perfect pictures. 
Perhaps the reason I don’t have an Ins-
tagram isn’t laziness. Perhaps it’s because I know the things in my life worth celebrating aren’t the things that make for ﬂ  awless pic-
tures. Perhaps it’s because I know my proud-
est moments weren’t great because of how I looked. They were great because of what I did.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics junior. 
Her column appears on Fridays.Instagram celebrates superficial 
lifestyles instead of actual livesColumn
“Nothing is true; 
everything is permitted.” 
Thus goes the 
famous maxim 
from publisher Ubisoft’s “Assas-sin’s Creed” video games. I men-tion this because writer Junot Diaz once proved one can win a 
Pulitzer prize with enough nerdy 
references — compassion and genius have nothing to do with it, I assure you — and because one of my closest friends, a per-
son who is essentially responsible for me 
becoming a reader, dislikes Shakespeare. 
Let me explain. “Dante and Shakespeare divide the 
world between them. There is no third,” 
wrote T.S. Eliot, a poet who may have re-
directed the trajectory of his era’s poetry. Near-religious reverence of “the Bard” did not begin with Eliot, nor did it end with 
him. Long after literature took a cultural 
backseat to radio, ﬁ  lm and the Internet, Shakespeare managed to posthumous-ly carve a place for himself in all three. There’s the fact that modern movies re-
interpreting his work appear as regularly 
as Bond ﬁ  lms. Or how his writing, despite sometimes being as unintelligible as a for-eign language, has managed to work its 
way into our language via commonly used 
idioms. 
I love this, as I love Shakespeare. But 
adoration is a subjective thing, no? If it wasn’t, we would all pine for the same person: an individual who is objectively 
the only human worthy of attention. There 
are people who come close — see Lin-Manuel Miranda or, better, listen to his musical “Hamilton” — but like a math-ematical asymptote, that point is impos-
sible to reach. So why is disliking Shake-
speare such a big deal?
Honestly, it isn’t. I generally ﬁ  nd the 
argument “people have different opinions about stuff and that’s OK” to be used as a crass defense of idiocy, but here it holds a 
little weight after further examination.
Artists are deﬁ  ned by their judgement 
in two senses of the word: their choice 
in technique and their perception of life. 
Often these two are symbiotic, growing or wasting in conjunction with 
one another. After all, language is not simply an expression of 
thought, but also an exploration 
of it. As my mother put more 
aptly, “feelings are thoughts you 
can’t say.”
Or, alternatively, haven’t 
said. But there may be a writer 
who has. I ﬁ  nd “Hamlet,” a play 
that is four centuries old, to be one of the 
most complex examinations of mortality through the lens of depression written in 
Western literature. There are passages in 
“Romeo and Juliet” that even now remind me of the sensation of my ﬁ  rst kiss. “Mac-beth” is a tragedy — a story in which the reader inherently understands the ending 
— in which the sheer manic violence con-
tinues to hold my attention, despite the numerous times I’ve read it.
But there is an implicit point to my love 
of Shakespeare: I, the reader, determine the strength of Shakespeare’s writing. A literary artist brings his or her assessments of life to a page — not life in the abstract, Thoreauvian, sort of way but as experienc-
es a living human can conceive of, from 
politics to space travel to religions secretly developed by kittens — and these become a source of discussion between the artist 
and the reader. What’s stopping the reader 
from ﬁ  nding the Bard to be banal?
Now, while I do think readers are fright-
eningly eager to dislike an author because his or her language may seem too difﬁ  -cult — like me when I was ﬁ  rst assigned 
“Their Eyes Were Watching God” by Zora 
Neale Hurston in high school — writers should be judged on how they inspire, ex-cite and haunt their readers. No comedian could be considered funny without mak-
ing at least someone laugh, so why can 
writers be deemed signiﬁ  cant by merely their cultural contributions?
Regardless, I’ll never stop trying to con-
vince my friend Shakespeare is the great-est gift to English language speakers. But 
she’s lukewarm toward Junot Diaz and 
has yet to listen to “Hamilton,” so who’s to really be the ﬁ  nal arbiter of quality?
Neel Bapatla is a UF English sopho-
more. His column appears on Fridays.No one is forced to like ShakespeareColumn
Namwan 
Leavell
opinions@alligator.org
Neel Bapatla
opinions@alligator.orgin Fall 2014, he didn’t know what 
Innovation Academy entailed.
“I had no idea it would ﬂ  ip your 
schedule,” he said. “I just checked it for the hell of it.”
So when he got to his ﬁ  rst day 
of classes, Valencia was ready.
Like every morning, he got up 
at 7:30 a.m. without hitting the snooze button.
It’s the only way he’s able to 
start his day.
The morning of his ﬁ  rst day, he 
made scrambled eggs for his room-
mates.
After that, he paced for about 
40 minutes before walking to his 
ﬁ  rst class, Introduction to Chemis-try, at 9:30 a.m. with a friend from high school.
“I was walking around doing 
random stuff until it was time to go,” he said. “I was just ready to 
go.”
His second class, Introduction 
to Programming, started at 11:45 
a.m. in the Computer Science and Engineering Building. He and about 20 freshmen waited for a professor who would never show up.
After about 15 minutes, the 
freshmen got up and left.
He later saw the professor post-
ed on Canvas that he wouldn’t be there, Valencia said. Valencia didn’t know teachers could post messages on Canvas.
But he said he wasn’t upset. He 
was just happy to go to class.
“I’ve been waiting since Sum-
mer and Fall,” he said.
      
Despite just arriving on cam-
pus, Valencia is no stranger to Gainesville.
His family moved from Miami 
about eight years ago, Valencia 
said. Although they only live about 
30 minutes from UF, he wanted to live on campus.
He said he wanted to be in 
Beaty Towers to be surrounded by other IA students.
His mother, Carolina, said it’s 
strange not having Valencia in the house. She used to come home from work to him blaring salsa music in his room.
But even though having him at 
UF is hard, she said she’s proud of her son.
“Pablo has always kept his be-
lief in who he is,” she said.
Valencia said he won’t be a 
stranger to his loved ones. He’ll be going home for dinner and to see his family.
“They’re the only people I truly 
trust,” he said.
      
His parents were poor when 
they came to the U.S. from Colom-bia, Valencia said. They wanted their children to be ﬁ  nancially se-cure but also help others.
His father, Harry Valencia, 
moved to the U.S. when he was 15, Valencia said. After arriving in America, he studied to give his family a better life. He works as a massage therapist to provide for his family.
“Education in our house is a 
way to move upwards,” Harry Va-
lencia said. “Especially when you 
don’t have money. It becomes the foundation.”
Valencia said because of his 
parents’ hard work, he didn’t struggle the way they did growing up.
“I was raised in a pretty good 
house,” he said. “I don’t have an excuse. I might as well make the most of it.”
Valencia is following in his fa-
ther’s footsteps of going to college, but he’s taking his education one step further. He said he hopes to get a graduate degree.
Although his dad emphasized 
education, he said his mother was 
the one who kept him on track and 
stayed involved in his education.
“My momma don’t play,” he 
said.
Valencia said he slacked during 
his junior and senior year of high school. But, his mother pushed him to ﬁ  nish scholarships and col-lege applications, and she is why 
he’s at UF today.
“I would be nothing without 
my mother,” he said.FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016
FRESHMAN,  from pg 1The Valencia family moved from Colombia 8 years ago
Pablo Valencia, an 18-year-old UF computer science 
freshman in the Innovation Academy, is the first in his family to attend UF. “Education makes it so whatever you do will help a lot of people, ” he said.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Courtesy to the Alligator
Harry Valencia, right, poses for a photo with his son, Pablo Valencia. Pablo hopes to go further than his father did in higher education and obtain a graduate degree.LEFT:
From left: Marco Valencia, Harry Valencia, Carolina Valencia, Pablo Valencia and Carlos Valencia pose for a photo.
BELOW:
Pablo Valencia poses for a photo with his mother, Carolina Valencia. Pablo is the ﬁ  rst on his mother’s side of the family to attend college.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pictured are scenes from Pablo Valencia’s life. Valencia’s father moved to the U.S. when he was 15, and he has worked hard ever since to provide for his family.
Courtesy to the Alligator“Education in our house is a way to move upwards, especially 
when you don’t have money. It becomes the foundation.”
Harry Valencia
Pablo’s fatherFRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Avail Aug 1st. 3BR/3BA nice house, 9 blocks 
from campus. Wood floors, W/D incl, pri-vate backyard. $1150/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. Call or text 352-339-2342. More houses at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 1-12-15-18-2
AVAIL AUG 1ST 4BR/2BA, 10 blks from cam-pus. Nice house, wood floors, W/D provided, etc. $1550/mo, 1105 NW 10th Ave, Text or call 352-339-2342. More houses available at www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com  1-8-15-2-2
AVAIL AUG 1ST 4BR/2BA big, nice house with big backyard. Plus full size hot tab, all ame-nities, plus W/D Text or call 352-339-2342. $1600/mo. 3413 NE 8th Ave. More houses at www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-8-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSelling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
PUBLIC AUCTION
Live & Online
1/14 10am
Symmetrical Stair & Door, LLC.
141 Commerce Road,
Boynton Beach, FL 33426
Sale will consist of: Machinery & Equip., 
Forklift, Vehicles, Warehouse items
& much more!
Preview: Morning of sale 9-10am
15% BP on-site / 18% BP online -
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors
Visit our website for details:
www.moeckerauctions.com 
(800) 840-BIDS
1-8-1-10CHURCH FURNITURE: Does your church need pews, pulpit set, baptistery, steeple, windows? Big Sale on new cushioned pews and pew chairs. 1-800-231-8360. www.pews1.com    1-8-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 10 For SaleFRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       1-6-15-36-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted
Look Where You’re Going! 
Don’t T ext & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
Thorough cleaners needed with reliable cars and willing to drive to Williston, Jonesville ,morriston, and around Gainesville. Homes/apartments are cleaned 7days 8-5 and of-fices 7days 5p- until finished. weekly pay & 8.25/hr. Must pass a background check and drug test. Please call 352-214-0868 if inter-ested..    1-8-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10 hr + INCENTIVE + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
Apply at https://jobs.ufl.edu/
4-20-71-14
Sun Country Sports is now hiring
coaches for cheerleading, recreational & 
team gymnastics & more!  Apply today at 
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.     1-11-
15-5-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-15-15-9-14
Experienced Cook Wanted
Cafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
Medical Office Assistant
PT for doctor's office. Experience preferred. 
Email resume to: drpohani@gmail.com    
1-12-16-5-14
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW
IN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally!1-800-709-7364    1-8-1-14
ATTN: Drivers- $2K Sign-On BonusLove your $55K Job!We Put Drivers First!Avg $1100 Weekly +Newer KWsCDL-A Req- (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com           1-8-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    1-8-1-14
New Year, New Career - AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and oth-ers- Get hands on training for FAA certifica-tion. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    1-8-1-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    1-8-1-10
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Event Notices 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The UF Swimming and Diving 
teams continue their spring schedule.Read the story on pg. 14After a lack-
luster end-ing to the 
2015 sea-
son, Jim 
McElwain and the Florida football team 
now turn their at-
tention to Spring practice. The Gators return a plethora of starters -- most notably All-
Southeastern Conference corner 
Jalen Tabor, freshman phenom Antonio Callaway and proliﬁ  c punter Johnny Townsend. But 
for each starter coming back, 
Florida sees a veteran heading to the NFL.
Vernon Hargreaves. Keanu 
Neal. Kelvin Taylor. Trip Thur-
man. Antonio Morrison. The list 
keeps going.
Yet with each player who 
leaves, whether it’s due to ex-
hausting eligibility or leaving 
early with the hopes of starting his professional career, another player will get the chance to leave his mark on the Florida 
Gators football program.
With that said, here’s your 
way-too-early look at four play-
ers currently on Florida’s roster 
who have a chance to make an 
impact when UF opens its 2016 season on Sept. 3.
DeAndre Goolsby, tight endIn a young, de-
veloping offense, the tight end generally 
serves as a security 
blanket, a player the quarterback can throw check-down 
passes to on a regu-
lar basis with little fear of making mis-takes.
Last season, the Gators had 
the luxury of utilizing sixth-year senior Jake McGee in that role, a role where he ﬂ  ourished to the tune of 41 catches, 381 yards and 
four touchdowns.
Even with McGee leaving de-
spite a potential attempt to ﬁ  nd a 
loophole for a seventh year, the offensive success that he created 
from the tight end position will 
likely continue for the Gators next season as rising junior De-Andre Goolsby takes over the 
starting job.
Goolsby ﬁ  nished the season 
with 17 catches for 277 yards 
and a touchdown as McGee’s backup.
The numbers aren’t any-
thing special, but the 6-foot-4, 243-pound tight end ﬂ  ashed his potential at various points 
throughout the season.
None of which was more 
telling than his 94-yard outing 
against East Carolina, in which 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Alligator Open House
The Alligator is looking to hire new writers, copy editors and photographers. 
Come to our open house today from 12-5 p.m. at 1105 W. University Ave.IT WAS UF'S SECOND-
EVER WIN AT TENNESSEE.
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writer
@ebaueri
The Tennessee program that Pat 
Summitt built is one of the most sto-
ried in women’s college basketball, so it isn’t often that fans leave the Volunteers’ Thompson-Boling Arena 
before the end of a game. 
But on Thursday night, in Knox-
ville, Tennessee, that’s exactly what happened when unranked Florida 
came in and rocked the No. 12 Vols out of Rocky Top, 74-66. 
Coming into the game, UF was 
3-48 all-time against Tennessee, with only one of those wins coming in Knoxville. Florida can now add one more win to its total, despite the odds being stacked heavily against it.
The Gators were coming off a 
loss, got into foul trouble and, per-haps most importantly, were with-out their head coach. 
Amanda Butler, herself a native 
of Mt. Juliet, Tennessee, was unable to be at the game due to a family emergency. In her place was assis-tant coach Shimmy Gray-Miller, who served as head coach of Saint Louis University from 2005-12. 
“I think that was probably one 
of the most complete games we’ve played as far as sticking to the game-plan and going with what works,” coach Gray-Miller said after the win. “Just, gosh darn, we’re so tough.”
With Gray-Miller at the helm, 
Florida didn’t seem to miss a beat despite a rough start.
Down by as many as 11 in the 
ﬁ  rst quarter, it didn’t look like the game was going to be close. But, unlike in the Gators’ loss to No. 8 Mississippi State on Sunday, UF was able to stay out of an insurmount-able hole. So when the time came to close, the Gators did. 
“Excuse me,” Gray-Miller said af-
ter the game, noticeably emotional. “I am just so happy and so proud, so incredibly proud of this team and to be a Gator.”
Perhaps the most pivotal mo-
Gators shock Vols in Rocky TopAIR JORDAN
By Alejandro López
Alligator Writer
@ajlb95
Starting off on the right foot is as appli-
cable in athletics as it is in everyday life.
And with regular season competition 
looming on the horizon, UF’s gymnastics 
team has the opportunity to do just that.
Opening its campaign tonight at 8, ﬁ  rst-year head coach Jenny Rowland’s squad is set to face Texas Woman’s University in 
Kitty Magee Arena in Denton, Texas.
Tonight’s contest marks the second time 
the teams have gone head-to-head and yet 
the name breeds a ﬂ  eeting sense of familiar-
ity. 
Florida defeated TWU 197.90-193.40. on 
Senior Night in the O’Connell Center last 
season.While much has been 
made of the Gators’ recent success at the national level, the Pioneers man-
aged to scrounge together a 9-12 record during the 2015 season, culminating in a fourth-place ﬁ  nish at 
the USA Gymnastics Col-
legiate National Championships.
Both programs return nine gymnasts 
from last year’s squads, and unranked 
TWU’s group is highlighted by the 2015 USA Gymnastics Collegiate All-American duo of sophomores Alyssa Kelly and Schyler Jones.
While UF will be without Kytra Hunter 
— who won last season’s meet  — Rachel 
Spicer and Kiersten Wang, the Gators retain 
senior Bridget Sloan, the only gymnast in program history to have recorded a perfect 10.0 in all four events.
Joining her are Kennedy Baker, Bridgette 
Caquatto and Alex McMurtry, a quartet that split seven 2015 NCAA All-American selec-tions between them. UF gymastics opens season on the road against familiar foeA way-too-early list of 
Florida football players 
to watch in 2016
SEE GYM,  PAGE 15SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF guard Eleanna Christinaki prepares to shoot during Florida's 
loss to Mississippi State on Sunday.
SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 15
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
Florida won last year's matchup
Sloan
14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016
BASKETBALL
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
 
To say that Florida struggled against Ten-
nessee on Wednesday would be putting it 
lightly.
Although UF’s stats against the Volun-
teers were fairly poor — the Gators shot 34.3 percent from the field while allowing Ten-nessee to shoot 47.0 percent — its effort left even more to be desired.
After the loss, coach Mike White didn’t 
mince words.
“I’ll try to be PG,” he said. “Tennessee, 
wow. They whipped us. They destroyed us. They were better in every facet of the game. 
They played harder. They competed at a 
higher level. They were tougher.”
When the coaching staff reviewed the 
first half’s film at halftime, White said they were shocked. The Gators played with al-most no energy and frequently strayed away from their scouting reports.
“We had two or three guys, the scout on 
them all week was to make them bounce the 
basketball. Absolutely, whatever you do, 
you have to make them bounce the basket-ball,” White said. “(We) didn’t do it one time in the first half.”
White benched all five of his starters early 
in the second half, and the Gators responded with a 9-0 run down by 30 points and later with a 7-0 run with just under four minutes left in the second half.
But the deficit was too much to overcome.“We’ve been a team that can’t make a free throw and can’t make a three, but we’ve 
fought every game and we’ve defended at a 
really high level,” White said. “And I’m just disappointed that we didn’t do that tonight to give us a chance.”
Where the Gators stand:Fourteen games into its 31-game season, 
Florida ranks last in the Southeastern Confer-ence in almost every offensive category.The Gators rank last in field-goal percent-
age (41.6), free-throw percentage (.620), points per shot attempt (1.17), three-point percentage (.285) and are the only SEC team shooting below 30.5 percent from behind the arc.
Florida also ranks 11 out of 14 SEC teams 
in points per game and assists per game with 73.1 and 12.7, respectively.“I’m just disappointed in our effort, the 
mental make-up, the character in which we played,” White said after UF’s loss to Ten-nessee. “We were a different team tonight than Saturday. We were a different team than when we were at Michigan State, and it’s unacceptable. It’s not who we need to be as a program.”
The bright side:
After committing 23 turnovers in its ex-
hibition win against Palm Beach Atlantic on 
Nov. 5 and 32 combined over its next two games, turnovers were thought to be a press-ing issue moving forward.
But the Gators fixed their sloppy passing 
and ball handling, and now lead the SEC with the least amount of turnovers, commit-ting 10.7 per game. They also rank sixth in 
assist-to-turnover ratio at 1.19.
In addition, UF is tied for first with South 
Carolina with 42.4 rebounds per game and 
lead the conference in offensive rebounds with 14.6 per game. The Gators are getting second-chance opportunities, but they’re failing to convert them.
What’s next:Florida hosts freshman Ben Simmons 
and Louisiana State on Saturday, fresh off of LSU’s 85-67 win over then-No. 9 Kentucky on Tuesday.
The multi-faceted Simmons leads the Ti-
gers with 20.1 points, 12.9 rebounds and 5.2 assists per game.
LSU leads the SEC in three categories: 
points per game (84.3), field-goal percentage (47.8) and steals per game (9.1).
Tipoff is at 1:30 p.m. in the O’Connell 
Center.White frustrated with loss, lack of effort against Tennessee
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
 
Caeleb Dressel is ready to 
break more records.
The sophomore racked up 
awards in 2015, winning South-
eastern Conference Freshman Swimmer of the Year while earn-
ing First Team All-SEC and All-
Freshman Team honors.
But, perhaps most impres-
sively, Dressel became the first UF swimmer to win the 50-yard 
freestyle NCAA Championship 
in his first NCAA postseason ap-pearance.
 The feat was also the first 
NCAA Championship victory by a UF freshman since 2005, and the first individual crown by a UF freshman since 2002.
“I just couldn’t get over the 
fact that I actually saw the num-ber one next to my name,” Dres-sel said in a release after the meet on March 27. 
“Then on the podium, I saw 
my mom and I got a little choked up.”
This year, the No. 4 ranked 
men’s swimming and diving team 
is without veteran swimmers Ed-
uardo Solaeche-Gomez and Dan Wallace. Wallace placed second in the 
500-yard freestyle at the 2015 NCAA Championships. 
However, they return juniors 
Mitch D’Arrigo and Jack Blyzin-skyj as well as sophomore Mark 
Szaranek, all of whom competed 
in last year’s NCAAs.
With a strong returning core, 
the men’s team will try to win its fourth-straight SEC team champi-onship and first national champi-onship since 1984.
The women’s team is also 
hoping to make a deep run into the postseason, spurred by a suc-cessful set of results during the 
fall.
Both the men’s and women’s teams won four of their fall 
events, including two first place finishes at the Buckeye Invita-
tional on Nov. 22.
The No. 11 ranked women’s 
team is led by seniors Jessica 
Thielmann and Natalie Hinds, 
who captured the 1,650-yard 
freestyle and 100-yard freestyle 
SEC title in 2015, respectively.
They also return sophomore 
Amelia Maughan, who finished 
first at the SEC Championships in the 200-yard freestyle.
This year, the women’s team 
will look to win its first SEC team championship since 2009 and first national championship since 2010.
And, so far, they’re on track. 
Florida’s swimming and div-
ing teams began 2016 with wins 
over Florida State on Jan. 2.
“Beating a rival is always ex-
citing and good for the fans,” coach Martin Wilby said in a re-lease after UF’s win over FSU.
 “But from a coaching stand-
point we took this win ultimately 
as an opportunity to see where 
we’re at and what we need to improve on as we approach the postseason.”Dressel, Hinds lead UF swimming and diving into Spring
Alligator File Photo 
Caeleb Dressel jumps into the pool at the start of the 200-yard breaststroke event during the 2014 
Pinch A Penny Invitational.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF’s Mike White reacts after a play during Florida’s win against Georgia on Saturday. In Florida’s loss to T ennessee on Wednesday, White said the team lacked effort.
“Beating a rival is always 
exciting and good for the 
fans.”
Martin Wilby 
CoachGators won eight combined meets in fallFurther bolstering the No. 2 
Gators’ roster is a five-woman re-
cruiting class ranked No. 2 on the 
2015-16 CollegeGymFans.com Top 
Recruiting Classes list.
Comprising the quintet are for-
mer U.S. Senior National Team 
member Peyton Ernst, 2014 Junior 
Olympic balance beam champion Lacy Dagen, four-time defending Junior Olympic Level 10 all-around champion Alicia Boren, 2015 Ju-
nior Olympic Senior D vault run-
ner-up Ashley Hiller and fourth-place beam competitor Amanda Cheney.
However, UF will be travelling 
without both Dagen and junior Claire Boyce who are out for the season following injury. 
Dagen suffered a torn ACL and 
Boyce injured her hip, which will require surgery.
Making just their second ap-
pearance in Texas in the last 35 
years, the evening’s competition 
marks the twelfth time since 1980 that the Gators will begin their sea-son on the road. 
UF has accumulated a 20-16 re-
cord in that span.
That first showing in Texas, 
though, proved to be something special. 
Competing at the Fort Worth 
Convention Center, Sloan and Mc-Murtry put forth consecutive 9.95 bar routines, helping the Gators edge the Utah Red Rocks by the 
smallest margin in the 34-year 
history of the NCAA gymnastics championships and bookending a successful season. 
Fittingly, the quest for another 
successful season picks up in the 
same state where the last left off.Goolsby hauled in a third-down pass from quarterback Will 
Grier late in the first quarter, faked out two defenders and 
dashed to the end zone for a 32-yard score.
Marcell Harris, safetyThe Gators are losing one of their hardest-hitting safeties 
in Keanu Neal next season, but Marcell Harris plays in a very similar fashion to Neal and seems ready to make the leap heading into his redshirt junior season.
The Orlando native has spent most of his career on spe-
cial teams or as a backup safety, but that didn’t stop Harris from recording a career-high 22 tackles in limited time last season.
Harris showed poise and precision while working on 
kickoff and punt coverage units and packs a punch with his 
tackling. If his coverage skills continue developing, he has a 
chance to fight for a starting spot on opening day.
Eddy Pineiro, kicker
Let’s just cut to the chase: Florida’s kicking game was 
awful last season.
The Gators’ combination of Austin Hardin and Jorge 
Powell converted on just 7-of-17 field goal attempts, a 
41.2-percent completion mark that ranks worse than every 
Football Bowl Subdivision team except for Wyoming (25 
percent on 2-of-8 kicking). UF also missed five extra-point attempts, two more than the team missed throughout the four-year Will Muschamp era. 
Enter Eddy Pineiro, a 2016 early enrollee who comes to 
UF as the No. 1-rated junior college kicker.
While Pineiro has yet to take a field-goal attempt in 
actual game action, videos show the North Miami Beach native booting kicks through the uprights from staggering 
distances, most recently a 62-yarder inside Florida’s Indoor 
Practice Facility.
Kylan Johnson, safety/linebackerJohnson sat out his freshman season while he rehabbed 
a leg injury, but he made a name for himself at practice in 2015.
A three-star recruit out of Dallas, Johnson’s ability to 
play both linebacker and safety should afford him the op-
portunity to see extended playing time in 2016.
This is only magnified by the fact that Florida’s lineback-
er corps will be bare outside of Alex Anzalone and Jarrad 
Davis (if he returns) and the secondary loss of senior corner Brian Poole.
Honorable MentionsRunning back trio Jordan Scarlett, Jordan Cronkrite and 
JUCO transfer Mark Thompson are expected to carry the 
Gators in the ground game. … Freshmen defensive linemen 
Keivonnis Davis and Jabari Zuniga were two players who upperclassmen raved about heading into the Citrus Bowl. … Freshmen guards Brandon Sandifer and Richerd Desir-Jones, who both took a redshirt this season, are expected to 
bolster Florida’s offensive line next year.FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF guard Carlie Needles shoots a three-pointer during Florida's 
loss to Mississippi State on Sunday. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Kennedy Baker performs her floor routine during Florida's win against Missouri last season. 
GYM,  from pg 13Gators' recuiting class is ranked No. 2COLUMN,  from pg 13
Danielle Veenstra  / Alligator
With Keanu Neal leaving early for the NFL Draft, safety Marcell Harris is expected to have an expanded role. 
ment of the game came courtesy 
of Brooke Copeland. Mostly used 
this season in a reserve role for five 
minutes per game, she came off the bench late in the third quarter and made a three-pointer to put Florida up by one, 50-49. 
That gave Florida its first lead 
since the game’s opening minutes.
The lead didn’t remain intact 
for the game’s duration, but the momentum did. From there on out, it never felt as though the Vols were going to be able to catch the 
Gators.
“We said that no matter what 
happened, we weren’t going to be 
perfect, but we were going to be tough for 40 minutes,” Gray-Miller said.  “And we were.” 
Eleanna Christinaki, the fresh-
man phenom from Athens, Greece, 
paced the team with 18 points and 
flirted with a triple-double for the second time this year by adding six rebounds and eight assists. 
Redshirt senior Carlie Needles 
also played well. She converted on 5-of-8 three pointers and was in-strumental in maintaining the lead in the game’s waning minutes. 
Thursday marked Florida’s sec-
ond win against a ranked opponent this season, as they defeated then-No. 7 Florida State in the season’s second game. The Gators are now in position to earn a ranking when the new AP Poll comes out. 
While Butler couldn’t be at the 
game, Gray-Miller was adamant 
that this was still Butler’s team and 
a Butler signature win — tough 
and hard-fought. 
“This is Amanda Butler’s team. 
They have taken on her personal-ity — these kids are tough, they are competitive — Butler was here tonight.”
Butler spoke with Gray-Miller 
and the team immediately follow-
ing the game on FaceTime which, 
much like the win, was an experi-ence that both her and her team will never forget. 
“It meant everything,” Gray-
Miller said. 
A radio broadcast contributed 
to this report. W-HOOPS,  from pg 13UF shot 44.8 percent16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 8, 2016
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
With the season now over for 
the Gators, coach Jim McElwain 
and his staff have shifted their efforts to recruiting. 
While it’s currently a dead 
period — a time when coaches can’t have face-to-face contact with recruits but can engage in written and electronic communi-cation — McElwain appeared on “The Paul Finebaum Show” to discuss numerous topics includ-ing recruiting.
He said that when he first 
arrived at Florida, the program was lagging in terms of facilities. 
UF didn’t have an indoor 
practice facility, giving ammuni-tion to other schools who were competing for the same recruits. 
But now — with an indoor 
practice space built — that ar-gument no longer holds any 
weight.
For McElwain and his staff, it 
has had a positive effect.
“The things that maybe peo-
ple were using against (us), are 
now, maybe positives for us,” McElwain said. 
“I’m excited at where we are 
and that momentum has really 
helped in recruiting. We’ve got 
one heck of a class put togeth-er.”
UF currently has the No. 5 
recruiting class in the country, according to 247Sports, with 26 players committed and 10 al-ready enrolled. National Signing Day is Feb. 3. 
Six Gators undergo surgery: 
Florida announced on Wednes-day that six players on the foot-ball team underwent surgery fol-lowing the Citrus Bowl against 
Michigan. 
Freshman offensive tackle 
Martez Ivey (shoulder), sopho-
more wide receiver Brandon Powell (foot), defensive line-men Joey Ivie (knee) and Jor-dan Sherit (sports hernia), cor-nerback Quincy Wilson (sports hernia) and walk-on kicker Neil 
MacInnes (knee) all underwent 
procedures. 
Ivey, who missed the first two 
games of the season, played in the next 12 and started the final eight. 
Powell played in all 14 games 
this year, moving from running back to receiver. The Deerfield Beach native finished the year with 29 receptions for 390 yards and three touchdowns. 
Ivie had 3.5 sacks in 10 games 
this year, with three coming in the Gators’ 31-24 win against East Carolina. Sherit had just 1.5 
sacks in 13 games serving as a 
situational player. 
Wilson played in all 14 games, 
making nine starts. 
He finished the season with two interceptions and five pass-es broken up. 
McElwain to appear on 
ESPN’s “Megacast”: McElwain will make an appearance on 
ESPN2’s “Megacast” during the 
national championship game be-tween Clemson and Alabama. 
McElwain will be a part of the 
“Film Room” coverage, a show ESPN debuted two years ago. 
He will be charged with 
breaking down what’s happen-ing during the game with other 
coaches and hosts.
The game between the Tigers 
and the Crimson Tide is sched-
uled to begin on Monday at 8:30 p.m. on ESPN.
Notebook: McElwain talks recruiting on Finebaum2016 FOOTBALL EARLY 
ENROLLEES
EDDY PINEIRO
Kicker
KYLE TRASK
Quarterback
MARK THOMPSON
Running Back
FREDDIE SWAIN
Wide Receiver
JOSH HAMMOND
Wide Receiver
DRE MASSEY
Offensive Athlete
STONE FORSYTHE
Offensive T ackle
JORDAN SMITH
Defensive End
DAVID REESE
Linebacker
CHAUNCEY GARDNER
Defensive BackDanielle  Veenstra / Alligator
UF coach Jim McElwain laughs with players after practice on Dec. 4, 2015, prior to the SEC Champi-
onship Game in Atlanta.
UF’s new practice facility has helped  