We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 93 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016
Gymnastics oﬀ   to hot 
start, yet to peak
UF won its ﬁ  rst four meets, pg. 16
Research Roundup
Pests, labels and Parkinson’s treatments, pg. 3
Police update on Millhopper skeleton
The skeleton is male, pg. 8Check us out online
Follow us on Facebook, Twitter 
@TheAlligator and Instagram @thealligator_
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
CULTURAL CREATIONS
Sabah Pirani, 22, paints henna tattoos on students’ hands at the 
Islam Fair. The mechanical engineering senior said she has been painting henna as a hobby since she was old enough to hold the pen and make designs, which she guesses was when she was ﬁ  ve years old. “I just do it for fun, ” Pirani said of the art.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Paul Rudd blew kisses and joked with 
UF students Monday night.
Rudd spoke at the Stephen C. O’Connell 
Center about his Jewish roots, past roles 
and the Marvel Cinematic Universe. David Itzkoff, a New York Times reporter, inter-viewed him in front of more than 1,000 
students.
Itzkoff quoted Wesley Huffman, a UF 
telecommunication senior, who was quot-
ed saying he was excited to see Rudd in a previous Alligator article.
When Huffman heard his name, he stood up and blew Rudd a kiss.
“It was so natural, the 
ﬁ  rst thing I thought of was, ‘I’m going to blow this guy a kiss,’” the 21-year-old said. “It was 
wet, hot and American.”
Rudd then talked mov-
ing around during his childhood because 
of his father’s job.“I think I always felt a little bit like an 
outsider,” he said. “As a way to ﬁ  t in, I 
would clown around.”
For his ﬁ  rst movie that came out, “Clue-
less,” the producer called him saying it 
was a success, he said.
“He said, ‘Congratulations, this is a hit. 
Don’t get used to it,’” Rudd said.
The audience cheered when Rudd talk-
ed about his role in “Friends.” He said get-Paul Rudd talks about Jewish roots, ‘Ant-Man’
KEYS COMPLEX WON’T GET 
LAUNDRY ROOM UNTIL FALL.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Keys Residential Complex residents will have to wait 
until Fall 2016 to do laundry.
On Sept. 19, Keys residents lost their area desk, wire-
less Internet and laundry room to a ﬁ  re. The ﬁ  re start-
ed in the north roof area above the laundry room and spread to the center of the Keys Residential Complex Commons.
“There is extensive smoke and ﬁ  re damage to the 
entire complex,” wrote Sharon Blansett, the assistant to the associate vice president for student affairs, in an email. “There is also extensive water damage as a result of ﬁ  ghting the ﬁ  re and as a result of rain and weather, since a large part of the roof was missing after the ﬁ  re.”
The Internet returned Sept. 21, and temporary mail-boxes were added a week later, she said. The Keys Commons, which includes the area desk, laundry room 
and public area space, is still closed.
The process of resolving insurance claims is still on-
going, Blansett said. After this, the Housing and Resi-
dence Education department will determine the ﬁ  nal 
engineering and design plans. Springs Area Ofﬁ  ce is 
serving Keys residents.
Still, the inconvenience of not having laundry re-
mains.
Cole Gabriel, a UF ﬁ  nance sophomore and the Keys 
Governing Body president, said he uses the Tolbert Area laundry rooms.
“In general, it’s become more of an inconvenience 
now,” the 20-year-old said. “We have gotten over that state of surprise. Now we are all trying to work together to deal with not having these facilities as close to you.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld 
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgLaundry on hold for Keys residents CRIME
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
ﬁ  ce announced Monday it will ﬁ  re 
Detective Zachary Zedalis and his wife, Sgt. Kathleen Zedalis, after several investigations.
The investigations followed a do-
mestic dispute from July, in which ASO charged his wife with domes-
tic battery, according to a Florida 
Department of Law Enforcement report.
Zachary Zedalis, a former UF 
football player, is currently running for sheriff.
An internal investigation found 
Zachary Zedalis culpable of criminal conduct and untruthfulness, and it 
found his wife culpable of criminal conduct. However, the FDLE inves-
tigation concluded neither should be prosecuted.
Both can appeal their termina-
tions, according to an ASO press release.
Kathleen Zedalis later told ASO 
that Zachary Zedalis physically abused her on several occasions, according to the FDLE investigation.
Zachary Zedalis called the ASO 
investigation a “political witch hunt” prompted by his campaign against current Sheriff Sadie Dar-nell.
“This is just another political 
ploy by the sheriff to ﬂ  ex her mus-cle,” Zachary Zedalis said.
He said the initial FDLE investi-
gation found the allegations against him to be baseless. However, ASO spokesman Sgt. Brandon Kutner said Zedalis’ claim isn’t accurate.
Kutner said the FDLE investi-
gation discouraged a prosecution against Zachary Zedalis because a conviction was unlikely.
He said the internal investigation 
will be released by the week’s end.
“It will become very clear that a 
criminal act did occur,” Kutner said.
Zachary Zedalis is also under 
investigation by the Florida Depart-ment of Children and Family Servic-es for child abuse, according to the press release. 
Zachary Zedalis denies the alle-
gations.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgAlachua sheriff candidate firedSEE ACCENT,  PAGE 4Rudd
NYT reporter interviewed himSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
There’s No Debate About Consent
Join STRIVE for Consent Week 
for opportunities to learn and talk about what consent is, what it isn’t and how to navigate un-
certainties. Come to the Reitz 
Union on Friday from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. to play Consent Jeopardy at Gator Nights! On Feb. 9 we will be hosting a panel of experts for “Loud & Queer Consent” in Ustler Hall Atrium from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. Feb. 11, you can find us hosting Cupid’s Consent Fair 
on the Plaza of the Americas 
from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. There will be games and prizes, not to mention opportunities to win ex-clusive STRIVE prize packs and Consent 2016 T-shirts!
GatorNights
GatorNights will host “Super 
Bowl: The Ultimate Tailgate” 
themed event Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature tailgate games, free food for the ultimate fan and a comedy show featuring comedian Nick Cobb. The event will also feature two showings of the movie, “Straight 
Outta Compton,” at 8 p.m. and 
10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free pizza during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum 
of one guest to the event. 
600 gather to learn CPR in 
Gainesville largest-ever mass 
CPR training eventOn Saturday, more than 600 people will converge in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom to learn CPR. UF’s GatorSavers is host-
ing its fifth annual GatorSavers: 
$5 CPR and Blood Drive on Saturday. Since February 2012, GatorSavers has certified close to 3,000 people in this annual event. This year’s event is plan-ning to CPR certify 600 people in the American Heart Association’s Adult CPR/AED during three dif-
ferent sessions: 9:30 a.m., noon 
and 2:30 p.m.
Campus Juice Juicing Workshop
Trying to eat healthy as a life-style, not only as your New Year’s Resolution? Do you feel like you aren’t getting enough fruits and vegetables in college? Or simply 
craving some delicious juice? We 
can help! Campus Juice is host-ing a Juicing Workshop at our next meeting Thursday evening. We will hold discussions on the benefits of juicing and teach you how it is done. Finally, there will be juicing demonstrations, and yes, that means free juice for all. We encourage you to bring 
your friends and any fruits or 
vegetables you can. To learn more about what we do as a healthy lifestyle club find us on Facebook, UF Campus Juice and @UFcampusjuice on Instagram!
Faculty recital: Duo Anno 1647 
featuring Kristen Stoner, flute
The School of Music presents a 
performance by Duo Anno 1647, including UF faculty member Dr. Kristen Stoner (flute) and guest artist Manabu Takasawa (piano) from the University of Rhode Island, on Feb. 15 at 7:30 p.m. The performance is in the Music Building, Room 101, and 
it is free and open to the pub-
lic. They will perform “Poem” by Charles Griffes, “Ballade” by Frank Martin, “Deep Blue” by Ian Clarke, “Sonatina” by Camargo Guarnieri, “First Sonata” by Bohuslav Martinu and “Soliloquy” by Jake Heggie.
iSTEAM Speaker Series presents 
Gators team physicianDr. Kevin Farmer, the team physician to the UF Athletic Association and an assistant professor of orthopaedics and sports surgery at the UF College of Medicine, will speak at the Marston Science Library on Feb. 
8 at 1 p.m. in Room L136. Farmer 
will speak on his experiences as team physician to the Gators and on current advances in sports medicine that keep Gator athletes competing at world-class levels. Farmer’s talk is co-sponsored by the Marston Science Library and the UF Premedical Chapter 
of the American Medical Student 
Association. The iSTEAM Speakers Series presents topics of interest to students majoring in science, technology, engineer-ing, arts and/or math.
RUB Entertainment Presents Tie-
Dye on the Fly
Stop by the North Lawn on 
Wednesday starting at 1 p.m. for some free hot chocolate and tie-dying fun. All tie-dye supplies will be provided, so make sure to come on by!
The Ark School of Fitness
The Ark School of Fitness will be 
hosting a community fitness class 
every Thursday at 5 p.m. start-ing this Thursday. The last class will be held April 21. The course is called The Ark Elements and will be free and open to all skill levels. The Ark Elements will incorporate elementary gymnas-tics and core stabilization ex-ercises. You can expect to gain better control of your body and acquire new bodyweight skills. All exercises will be modified to 
meet individual skill levels and 
abilities. The application can be found at thearkfitness.com/the-ark-elements.
A Valentine’s Night at the 
Museum, Feb. 13Spend Valentine’s eve at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History playing trivia games. 
The program fee includes admis-sion to the “First Colony: Our Spanish Origins” exhibit and participation in trivia night. The museum is open from 6 p.m. un-til 10 p.m. for this event. Trivia begins at 7:30 p.m. The program fee is $10 per person or $15 per 
couple, and it’s free for both 
UF students with valid Gator 1 Cards and museum members. A Valentine’s Night at the Museum is for adults only (ages 18 and up). Preregistration is required. For more information, call 352-273-2061.
Harn Museum Writing 
Competition: Words on CanvasWords on Canvas is a yearly writing competition at the Harn Museum of Art for college stu-dents interested in inspiring mu-seumgoers by writing poetry or prose connected with a work of 
art. All UF and Santa Fe College 
students are welcome to partici-pate. Winning contestants will be awarded Harn merchandise and students may submit until Feb. 21. Entry is simple and free of charge. For more information, please visit our website at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 93
HIGH  82° LOW  64°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Maria Bonaventura, Jessica Gonzalez,   
  David Hoffman, Kristine    
  Janata, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Research shows shallow flooding helps 
control pests
A UF professor’s research found that ﬂ  ooding 
rice plots with shallow water reduces the number 
of weevils, which are pests that feed on the crops.
Ron Cherry, a 69-year-old UF entomology and 
nematology professor, said in previous studies, re-searchers suggested that ﬂ  ooding might help control the weevils.
However, the previous ﬁ  ndings were unclear, so 
Cherry conducted his own research in 2014.
“They (weevils) are a major problem in rice in 
many parts of the world,” he said. “And most of the damage is caused by larval feeding (grubs) on the roots of rice plants.”
The research was conducted in South Florida, 
where rice is grown commercially in plots with con-trolled water levels, he said.
“It will make growers aware, both in Florida and 
elsewhere, that using reduced water levels in rice 
should help to control the pest insects,” Cherry said.
The Rice Growers of Florida, independent rice 
growers who had an interest in the results, support-ed the research, he said.
- Lauren RowlandStudy: Labels make a difference
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences found 
that consumers prefer produce labeled “Fresh from Flor-
ida.”
Joy Rumble, a UF assistant professor of agricultural 
communication, said consumer discussions, focus groups 
and surveys began about ﬁ  ve years ago.
Consumer recognition of the “Fresh from Florida” la-
bel has increased since research ﬁ  rst began, Rumble said.
Further surveys asked if consumers preferred to buy 
produce labeled “local” or “Fresh from Florida,” and the majority favored the second option, she said. Florida con-
sumers also tend to avoid fruits from other states or those without a label.
“If it doesn’t have a label on it, they’re not going to 
take the time to read the small print to ﬁ  nd out where it was produced, unless they’re very conscious of that,” she said.
Study participants were over the age of 18 and are 
regular grocery shoppers, Rumble said. “Throughout the different processes, we’ve had a variety of different peo-ple, but it’s always been consumers who have an interest in purchasing food and make regular purchases for their homes,” Rumble said.
Many respondents believed the fruit would be fresher 
because it came from Florida, she said.
Rumble said more producers have used the label since 
research began.
- Annie OstranderDopamine levels may be linked to 
Parkinson’s treatments, a study shows
A UF study could lead to potential treatments for 
Parkinson’s disease and drug addictions.   
Habibeh Khoshbouei, an associate professor of 
neuroscience at UF’s College of Medicine, researched 
how dopamine transports in and out of brain cells. 
They studied dopamine transporters, which are 
proteins that regulate dopamine levels. Dopamine is 
important for body movement and can affect hap-
piness.
Low levels of dopamine limit movement and are 
seen in cases of Parkinson’s disease, she said. High levels are seen in cases of drug addiction.
“Dopamine is the ultimate good-feeling chemical 
in the brain,” Khoshbouei said.
Khoshbouei hopes to discover and understand 
how dopamine levels are regulated and, from there, work to aid individuals suffering from abnormal lev-els of the chemical.
“The ﬁ  rst step before thinking about any thera-
peutic approaches is to understand how the system works,” she said. “When we ﬁ  nd how the system 
works, then we can start thinking about designing 
therapeutic approaches to ﬁ  x it.”
- Madeleine Haistting on the show was a fluke.
“I always felt a little bit like a prop,” he 
said. “Like nobody’s tuning into this show 
to see what’s going on with Mike.”
He said that feeling carried over to the 
set of “Captain America: Civil War,” the 
next Marvel movie Rudd will act in. Rudd 
also played Scott Lang in “Ant-Man.” He 
said he felt more like a spectator than an actor on set.
“I felt like I’m somewhere I’m really not 
supposed to be,” he said. “I feel like I’m 
watching someone bathe.”
He told young actors looking to move to 
Los Angeles to be themselves.
“Everything is a big blob, there’s no one 
way of anything happening,” Rudd said. 
“It’s a town full of weirdos and none of it is personal.”
Evan Kleiner, a UF business administra-tion freshman, said he was excited to see his favorite comedian. He won a Facebook 
contest through the Accent Speakers Bu-
reau to sit closer to Rudd.
“He seems like a very down-to-earth 
kind of guy,” the 18-year-old said.     
Kleiner said he brought his friend Adam 
Weiss, 19, to the event as a fellow VIP be-cause Weiss offered him free Chipotle.
“It was beautiful,” Weiss, also a UF 
business administration freshman, said.
Weiss said his favorite part of the night 
was when Rudd acted out a move from his movie “I Love You Man” called “slapping the bass,” in which he plays air guitar, 
with a student in the audience.
“That made my night,” said Weiss. “I 
just want to see Paul Rudd slap the bass.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016
His next movie is ‘Captain America’
ACCENT,  from pg 1
IT OFFERS MORE SEATING 
AND PATHWAY TO 
CONSTANS THEATRE
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
Kristina Perez is excited she can 
now walk through the Reitz Union 
food court to the Constans Theatre without leaving the building.
The UF telecommunication fresh-
man was one of hundreds of stu-dents who checked out the newly renovated Reitz Union on Monday.  Some stayed and studied in the Reitz Union’s lounge areas.
“As a total theater nerd, this is the 
greatest thing,” Perez said. “I can get food and run to the show.”
Perez was also excited by the ex-
tra seating in the food court.
“Before you had to give up 
your first born to find seating,” the 19-year-old said.
But she said there were too many 
stairs for her taste.
“If I didn’t climb enough stairs at 
Jennings, I definitely am now,” she said.
Yen Le, a UF sociology junior, and 
Kevin Chong, a UF advertising se-nior, walked through all three floors. The two circled the Reitz Union, walking back and forth through it.
“I’m still gathering my thoughts,” 
Le said. “It’s still kind of confusing and so big.”
Le, 21, said she likes having an-
other place to lounge around on campus.
“There is definitely a lot of spots 
I can see myself hanging out in,” Le said.
For Chong, 21, seeing the space 
completed reminds him of before construction began. He said he used to visit the outdoor amphitheater be-
hind the Reitz. Now that the renova-
tion is finished, it’s back.
“I am a senior now, but that used 
to be our area where we would hang out,” he said. “It’s nice to know that it’s back.”
Meanwhile, Darcy Schild, a UF 
journalism freshman, sees this space as a place to make new traditions.“My parents are going to be in 
town tomorrow,” she said. “I’m ex-cited to be able to show them.”
She said she likes having differ-
ent places to sit, such as the Social Stairs, a staircase with outlets so stu-
dents can study on the steps. There 
are also couches and swivel chairs.
“I’ve been testing out all the new chairs,” the 19-year-old said. “I love the swivel chair.”
Schild said she thought the build-
ing had a new smell.
“I love the smell,” she said. “It 
smells like a new car.”
@merylkornfield 
mkornfield@alligator.org
Students explore Reitz Union update
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Nick Goble, a 19-year-old UF natural resource conservation freshman, 
looks out the window of the top floor of the new Reitz Union build-ing while 18-year-old UF journalism freshman Karry Butdorf looks around the room. Goble said they were out exploring the new building.
CAMPUS
By Madeleine Haist
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Georgia mother sees a role 
model for her son in a UF bas-
ketball player Zach Hodskins.
Heather Tarver posted to the 
Florida Gators Men’s Basketball Facebook page Jan. 24, hoping to set up a time for her 2-year-
old son, Charlie, to meet Hod-
skins. Both were born without a hand.
Tarver said her aunt and un-
cle bought her tickets to attend 
UF’s basketball game against 
the University of Georgia on Feb. 16. After getting the tick-ets, she learned Hodskins has 
one hand, like her son.
“I started watching clips of 
him, and it was just amazing to 
watch him play and to see what somebody without a hand can 
do,” Tarver said.
Because of Charlie’s age, 
Tarver said she is trying to 
have Hodskins meet him be-
fore the game, which starts at 
9 p.m. She hopes her son can overcome his disability the way Hodskins has.
“Charlie has impressed me 
just in his short little three years 
with how he has learned to ma-
nipulate things,” she said. “He comes up with his own ways to carry things or open things. He is very independent, and I like 
seeing other role models who 
do stuff that defies the norm.”
Michael Robuck, the program 
assistant for the UF men’s bas-
ketball team, contacted Tarver 
on Jan. 25 after she posted on Facebook.
Tarver said he asked her what times worked best for Charlie to possibly meet Hod-skins and suggested bringing 
him to the team’s warm-up 
practice.
Tarver said Charlie’s dis-
ability shouldn’t keep him from 
playing sports.
“People don’t see kids born 
with one hand able to partici-
pate in a lot of sports,” Tarver said. “I’ve heard things like, ‘Well, he might be really good at soccer.’ I like the idea of him 
exploring all different sports. I 
don’t want him to ever think there is a limitation of what he can do because of his limb dif-
ference.”
Hodskins said growing up, 
he hopes Charlie knows that hard work pays off.
“Things will get pretty hard 
just in everyday life,” Hod-
skins said. “Things like sports, school, anything, it’ll be hard, 
but you’ve got to work hard and 
persevere. Just be yourself and people will accept you for being the kindhearted person you are 
going to be.”Georgia 2-year-old 
could meet UF athlete
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Movie star Paul Rudd speaks with The New York Times culture reporter David Itz-
koff about his acting career at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Monday evening. “Things will get pretty 
hard just in everyday life,” 
Hodskins said. “Things like 
sports, school, anything, it’ll 
be hard, but you’ve got to 
work hard and persevere. 
Just be yourself and people 
will accept you for being the 
kindhearted person you are 
going to be.”
Zach Hodskins
UF basketball playerTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·By Kristen Solorzano
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 20 UF students are fi-
nalists in a SpaceX competition.
The students will compete 
against 22 other universities in 
Hawthorne, California, this sum-mer as they try to create a new method of transportation in the 
final round of the “Hyperloop 
Pod” competition. 
The students advanced to the 
final round, hosted by Elon Musk, the founder of SpaceX and CEO of 
Tesla Motors, last weekend.
The team’s submission, Gator-
loop, will be 15 feet long and 3 
feet wide. It could weigh as much 
as a motorcycle and go between 
225 and 250 miles per hour on the 1-mile track.  
The Hyperloop is a theoretical 
high-speed transportation system 
that carries people and cargo, 
potentially surpassing speeds of 750 mph, according to SpaceX’s website.  
In the competition, partici-
pants will race entries at a third of that speed to see which team reaches the finish line first.
Terra Gurley, 22, the team 
leader for safety and reliability, said she wants to see the Hyper-loop become commonplace.
“Technology and ideas like 
this are the future, and the more the word is spread, the faster this concept will become a reality,” 
the UF mechanical engineering 
senior wrote in an email.
While at the weekend com-
petition at Texas A&M Univer-sity, Musk surprised the crowd 
by coming out and speaking, she 
said.
“Everyone ran toward the 
stage like music fans would run 
toward a rock star, and it was an 
amazing inspiration to hear him speak in person,” she said.
Kris Koepke, the mechani-
cal systems lead, said the origi-
nal concept for Hyperloop was to have transportation capsules, 
or pods, magnetically levitate or have air bearings lift up the pod.
“Like an air hockey table,” the 
UF mechanical engineering se-nior said of air bearings. “A com-pressor takes in the air to lift the pod up.”  
Originally, teams were told 
the pod needed to levitate, the 36-year-old said. A few weeks ago, they changed their minds, and Gatorloop added wheels.“A compressor has not been 
built for this capacity and would take nearly two to three years to design a compressor,” he said. “So we went with wheels.” 
They added wheels because 
they wanted the pod to be more aerodynamic and they could win the competition, Koepke said.
Before registering in Septem-
ber for the competition, the Ga-torloop team was already plan-ning, Erica Harp, the team’s 
treasurer, said.
The team is trying to raise 
about $20,000 to create the pod, 
the UF mechanical engineering junior said.
“We have been working on 
this project non-stop since the middle of summer semester,” the 20-year-old said. “Luckily I was here this summer and had the chance to see our design be built 
from scratch!”
The Gatorloop team is raising 
money for the project on GoFund-
Me at gofundme.com/gatorloop.Gatorloop engineers advance
Student arrested on drug charges near 
Beaty Towers
University Police arrested a UF student Sunday eve-
ning after they found him in possession of a bong and 
some marijuana on campus.
At about 6:30 p.m. Sunday,  Ryan Joseph Lohan, 19, 
sat at a picnic table near his Beaty Towers dorm when 
a police officer walked by and smelled weed, according 
to a police report.
When the officer walked over to Lohan, who was 
with a friend, Lohan ran away, according to the report.
The officer caught up to him and returned to the pic-
nic table, where he then realized why Lohan ran, ac-cording to the report.
There, the officer found a clear bag of weed, a grinder 
and a bong, which is commonly used to smoke canna-
bis, according to the report.
Lohan is listed as a student in UF’s online student 
directory. He declined to comment.
Police arrested him on charges of possession of less 
than 20 grams of weed, possession of drug parapherna-
lia and resisting arrest without violence.
Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail 
where he was released early Monday morning on a $3,000 bond.
- Martin VassoloUF Alert suspect charged with armed 
robbery
An incident near Infinity Hall, which was reported through 
UF Alert, resulted in an arrest early Monday morning.
Police arrested Don Everette Saunders, 27, after they said 
he robbed a man of $80 and then cut him with a box cut-
ter, according to a police report. At about midnight Monday, Saunders stood outside his home and asked a man if he could borrow a lighter, the report states.
The man walked toward Saunders on Fourth Avenue to 
hand him a lighter. Saunders then wrapped something around the man’s neck and pulled him into the home’s doorway, ac-cording to the report.
The man handed over $80 after demands by Saunders, who 
then cut the man’s sweater with a box cutter and punched his face. When the man contacted police, he was bleeding from 
his chest and lips. Police eventually found Saunders walk-
ing down Southwest 10th Street near Infinity Hall and, when questioned, Saunders said he was actually raped by the man.
However, authorities confirmed the man’s story after 
checking Saunders’ address and finding a green box cutter in his purse, according to the report. Police arrested Saunders on charges of armed robbery and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a 
$50,000 bond.
- Martin VassoloGainesville man arrested, hides crack in 
crotch
Police arrested a Gainesville man after they said he likely 
used his crotch to sneak drugs into the Alachua County Jail.
At about 1:30 p.m. Sunday, Malcolm C. Pleas Jr., 25, sat in 
the passenger seat of a car that crashed into a street sign and 
light pole, according to a police report. When police arrived to the 6100 block of NW 23rd St., Pleas and the driver, Glamou-rie Gomez, stood outside the car, according to the report.
A strong smell of marijuana drifted from Pleas and Gomez, 
and the officer told them he was going to search the car, ac-cording to the report. Pleas and Gomez tried hiding something between the seat cushions, but an officer stepped in and hand-cuffed Pleas. In the car, police found marijuana residue on two scales, and a few mostly smoked joints, according to the report.
Police arrested Pleas on charges of tampering with evi-
dence, possessing a controlled substance, possessing drug paraphernalia, possessing less than 20 grams of marijuana and resisting without violence. Authorities took him to the Ala-chua County Jail, where he received another charge after staff found a sweaty bag of cocaine and marijuana, which police believe was hidden in his crotch area, according to the report.
As of press time, he remains at the jail in lieu of a $32,500 
bond. Gomez, who was arrested on similar charges, was re-
leased Monday on her own recognizance.
- Martin VassoloTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
AWAITING THE RESULTS
Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., 
watches caucus returns in his hotel room on Monday in Des Moines, Iowa.
Pleas
 Gomez
 Lohan
 Saunders
Elon Musk spoke at the event
“A compressor has not been 
built for this capacity and 
would take nearly two to three 
years to design a compressor, 
so we went with wheels.” 
Kris Koepke
mechanical systems leadThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The future of ‘The Daily Show’ is strong
I tend to focus my column on serious political 
and social issues, but for the sake of incorpo-rating some occasional variety, I’d like to com-mit this week’s piece to a more lighthearted topic very dear to my heart: “The Daily Show.”
Trevor Noah ofﬁ  cially took over the program 
Sept. 28, 2015, and ever since, viewers and crit-ics have had mixed reactions to his performance and maintenance of the legacy former host Jon Stewart left behind. I strongly disagree with much of the critics’ contempt and disappointment with Trevor Noah: Let’s break this down.
Everyone’s a critic until something becomes undeniably 
successful. Then, former critics claim to have always loved 
and believed in the project. We have seen this across the 
spectrum of late-night comedy ﬁ  gures, including the beloved Stephen Colbert. When Colbert made his independent debut with “The Colbert Report” in 2005, many were quite skepti-cal of how the show would fare in comparison to the other late-night programs. The same is true for Trevor Noah.
After Trevor Noah’s debut, reception was either ruthlessly 
negative or strongly positive. Critics pointed to Noah’s cute-sy, dimpled smile and dirty humor — such as his “Pope has 
a huge c—” joke — as examples of his comedic inferiority 
in comparison to his predecessor and colleagues in the late-night comedy sphere. All the while, Stephen Colbert himself, from his platform on his new “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert,” voiced incredible support and encouragement of Noah’s new ventures.
Now, in February, and four months into Noah’s “The Dai-
ly Show,” we’re in a better position to seriously discuss his direction. Before hashing out my support for Noah, I’ll extend 
an olive branch to his critics: His interviewing skills could use 
some work. Noah’s had quite successful interviews, such as those with Muslim scholar Dalia Mogahed and Republican presidential candidate Rand Paul, but overall, they lack the witty, sharp, revelatory and seamlessly conversational timbre of Jon Stewart’s interviews. Stewart himself has character-ized interviews as the most erratic and hit-or-miss aspect of the show, so with time, it’s reasonable to expect Noah to improve in this regard.
Among the lingering criticisms of Trevor No-
ah’s “The Daily Show” is that he fails to provide a subtext of deep political commentary alongside the witty satire and gooﬁ  ness that characterized 
Stewart’s show. However, for those of us who ac-
tively watch the new “The Daily Show,” we can immediately pick apart this criticism with a num-ber of Noah’s bits that have the familiar right-on-point, classic “The Daily Show” edge to them.
Noah’s A+ bits that immediately come to 
mind include “Donald Trump: America’s African President,” in which Noah draws a seamless parallel between Trump’s militant boldness to that of numerous African de facto dicta-
torships.  
Likewise, Noah’s “Not So Pro-Life After All” bit brilliantly 
tackled vehement pro-life advocates, such as Carly Fiorina, 
who decree an end to Planned Parenthood but do nothing to combat the lives lost to gun violence in this country. No-ah’s recurrent “Donald Trump Wants to Bang His Daughter” montage also consistently elicits painful truth and laughter without fail.
Even Noah’s correspondents have developed consistently 
captivating bits, such as “Are All Cops Racists?” in which hy-pocrisy on both sides of the blue lives vs. black lives debate is highlighted for all to see.
Ultimately, Jon Stewart is irreplaceable. However, this 
doesn’t mean Trevor Noah can’t be phenomenal in his own right. Within a span of only four months, freshly new into the national television business, Trevor Noah’s “The Daily Show” has provided compelling satire and political commen-tary. I stand by Noah, fully satisﬁ  ed with what he’s brought 
to the table and childishly excited to see what more he has to 
bring as he grows into his own show.
For those of you who can’t help but feel disappointed, I 
can’t help you. But one thing is for sure: We’re all anticipat-ing the return of “Last Week Tonight with John Oliver” on Feb. 14.  
David Hoffman is a UF history and physics sophomore. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.In “Jurassic Park,” Jeff Goldblum — that most semitic of stal-lions — plays Dr. Ian Malcolm, a charismatic yet somewhat grating mathematician. Brought to the titular park to assess  any possible dangers or shortcomings, he eventually gets into an intense argument with John Hammond, the park’s creator, 
over the ethical and economic concerns behind resurrecting mur-derous, ancient creatures and parading them around in the name of capitalism and entertainment. After Hammond defends his work for representing a profound achievement in scientiﬁ  c prog-ress, Malcolm offers the following iconic rejoinder: “Yeah, yeah, but your scientists were so preoccupied with whether or not they could that they didn’t stop to think if they should.”
Already the subject of our daydreams and wistful fantasies, 
the last 24 hours have seen us thinking more about Jeff Goldblum 
than usual; it was reported yesterday that U.K. scientists have 
been given the legal go-ahead to modify human embryos. This de-velopment follows China’s announcement last year that scientists in the country had already conducted similar work. These scien-tists, based out of London’s Francis Crick Institute, are seeking to better understand infertility and make breakthroughs regarding preventative measures for miscarriages. The scientists at the Crick Institute submitted their request to the U.K.’s Human Fertilisa-tion & Embryology Authority back in September, so it’s apparent 
this request was not treated lightly and has been highly vetted for 
possible ethical and moral fallout. And yet, we can’t help but feel slightly unnerved about the entire endeavor. We have no doubts about the positive applications that can come from genetic modi-ﬁ  cation. A December 2015 BBC article titled “The promise of gene editing” does a tremendous job of comprehensively outlining and explaining the process and potential uses for genetic modiﬁ  cation, such as curing conditions like recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa, which leaves individuals’ bodies covered in blisters.
As explained in the BBC article, the embryonic experimenta-
tion that will be conducted at the Crick Institute has been made possible by “Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats,” or CRISPR, techniques. The methodology behind CRIS-PR essentially involves cutting DNA strands and replacing them with new ones. Keeping in mind that humans once had to bang rocks together to create ﬁ  re and cook food, from an objective standpoint, it is absolutely mindblowing that we as a species now stand on the cusp of altering what makes us… us. But as Jeff Gold-
blum once so thoughtfully posed, just because we could, does it 
mean we should? The experiments conducted by these research-ers are not seeking to alter physical or mental characteristics of embryos, nor do they intend to implant the altered embryos into a uterus; according to the scientists, they will be destroyed. If you’re of a certain mindset (read: non-religious), this information should come as comforting, if only marginally.
With regards to embryonic science, it is our opinion there is 
a wide gulf between stem cell research and genetic modiﬁ  cation. 
With stem cells, embryos must be destroyed in order to extract the 
material. What’s more, stem cell research can — and should — be used for the betterment of the lives of those who have already found themselves stricken with an ailment or disability: The per-sonhood of these individuals has long been afﬁ  rmed.
The potential to pick and choose the qualities of a person who 
has yet to be born — such as their gender, degree of intelligence, athletic ability, etc. — is awe-inspiring in its power and horrifying in its implications. Should the proposal of “designer babies” ever 
be realized, it would pose as large an existential, ethical, economic 
and social dilemma as mankind has ever seen.
Science, beneﬁ  cial though it may be, needs to be guided with 
considerations for moral principles and future consequences: Just because we can, does not always mean we should.Gene editing 
makes us uneasy
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
David Hoffman
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
This past weekend I found 
myself in an all-too-fa-miliar situation involv-
ing a labored conversa-
tion, the hole I talked 
myself into and an unsuccessful attempt to escape. I was par-
tially to blame for this predica-
ment, as I had broken one of the unspoken cardinal rules of social gatherings: Don’t discuss politics with someone you just met.
After exhausting every other known 
topic and abandoning hope that I would ever be rescued from this friend-of-a-friend, I offhandedly mentioned that I 
had watched the Republican debate a few 
days prior (an overstatement, as it was merely serving as background noise). 
What happened next could only be 
expected, with my new acquaintance un-
leashing a torrent of political theories and 
attempting to spark an entirely new de-bate, right in the middle of the party.  
I was out of my league. 
Realizing I didn’t have nearly enough 
information to take on this aspiring politi-
cal commentator, I did what any reason-able adult would do: avoid confrontation altogether.
It’s a common enough occurrence: 
someone bringing up a current event and doling out disdainful looks to anyone not “up to date” about it. 
Keeping up with current events is seen 
as a civic duty — by staying informed we’re keeping those in power account-able. 
But why do we really follow the news? 
Is it truly the noble pursuit that so many make it out to be?
When it comes to the news, it seems 
as though many people’s opinions fall 
into one of two extremes: The news is the 
key to staying informed, or the news is a pointless distraction. 
Both views have their merits. Star 
economist Steven Levitt, a University of 
Chicago professor and co-author of the 
“Freakonomics” series, discussed his personal aversion to news media in the Freakonomics Radio episode “Why Do We Really Follow the News?” 
He points out that our at-
traction to current events stems 
largely from its personal utility, 
in that it serves little purpose other than allowing us to avoid uncomfortable situations simi-
lar to the one I encountered.
Taking this perspective a 
step further, it could also be 
said news media is a diversion 
from reality, a source of entertainment 
devoid of informational value. 
The similarities between a political de-
bate and a sporting match are easily iden-
tified, with both involving a favorite team 
and the thrill of the fight. 
It’s obvious news programs are finely 
curated amalgams, highlighting only a 
microscopic portion of the world around us and skewing the few stories that make 
the cut. 
Or, there’s the classic stance that keep-
ing up with current events is just too up-
setting and ignorance is bliss.
Yet understanding a small fraction of 
what’s happening in the world allows you to form a context for the story of your life. This, more than anything, is the allure of following the news. 
A self-concept can’t be formed in a 
vacuum, and juxtaposing your life with the surrounding events creates a more complete image.
I doubt anyone would follow current 
events solely for the sake of civic duty. 
We may flaunt highbrow motivations, 
but in reality there is undeniably some-thing else that draws us to these events. 
Maybe you want to maintain an aura of 
informed intelligence or enjoy the news solely for its entertainment value. 
What’s important is that understand-
ing why and how we consume news al-lows us to grasp the role journalism plays in our lives, as well as predict how it’ll change in the years to come.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English ju-
nior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.Why do we care about current events?Column
Disciples of the Second Amendment have been snubbed. The world’s 
largest social network 
took deﬁ  ning steps in 
the arduous effort for reason-able gun control Saturday. Face-
book announced it would be 
banning users from coordinating private, person-to-person sales of guns on its website as well as through Instagram, though licensed gun 
dealers and gun clubs will not be affected 
by the company’s action. (Phew! Thank you, Jesus.)
The decision is one that came from in-
creased pressure by gun control advocates in the wake of a violent and gun-toting 2015. It also stemmed from President Barack Obama and state attorney gener-als looking for any medium outside of the 
gridlock of Congress to be progressive 
on the matter and actually get something done. It is also a bold step in the right di-rection for curbing gun violence and the 
illegal distribution of high-powered ﬁ  re-
arms. 
Or, it represents a relentless assault on 
the constitutional right of citizens to bear arms. But only one of those two things ac-
tually rings true.
The grand, storied and ongoing inces-
tuous relationship between Congress and 
the National Riﬂ  e Association has paved 
the way for the U.S. to become the ﬁ  rst 
in the world in gun ownership and last in the spirit of compromise in regard to this “right.” They have successfully propa-gated to a vast majority of cowardly and 
insecure Americans a narrative that tells 
of a faction of cabal-like Federalism whose sole purpose is to take every gun from the hand of the patriotic American. Entertain-
ing and captivating, but a ﬁ  ctitious narra-
tive nonetheless.
Advocacy for sensible gun reform and 
regulation never meant the cessation of the government’s acknowledgement of 
the Bill of Rights. It does, however, mean 
a call for persons who have been placed on a no-ﬂ  y list not to be able to purchase ﬁ  rearms. It also calls for common sense background checks that would prevent the sale of ﬁ  rearms to individuals with a history of 
mental illness. Why, then, when 
acknowledging the truth of the mission for gun reform, is there a massive faction of Americans 
who insist on comparing these 
attempts at compromise for saf-er and less gun-ridden cities to steps the Third Reich took in its 
brief, albeit brutal, conquest of Europe?
Speaking frankly, this portion of the 
American populace is a stupid and cow-ardly one. Stupid in being easily persuad-ed by the millions spent on campaigns 
and attack ads by the gun lobbies and 
cowardly in their clinging to ﬁ  rearms that compensate for their detachment from the reality of death. This applies equally from the Chief Keefs of Chicago to the Ammon 
Bundys of Idaho.
Facebook is acting for those who want 
to see just a smidgen of reform in the ad-
vent of a government that is subservient to 
those who will not allow any of it. On the 
micro scale, businesses in states that have plagued their people with a perverted in-terpretation of the Second Amendment are 
refusing to allow people to carry in their 
restaurants, as is their right.
The future of this ﬁ  ght seems to be in 
the hands of corporations that have a con-science.  Now there’s a ﬁ  rst.
Justin Ford is a UF journalism junior. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.Facebook leads the way in gun reformColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
“It is also a bold step 
in the right direction 
for curbing gun 
violence and the 
illegal distribution 
of high-powered 
irearms.”
Justin 
Ford
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Susan Webster, UF’s Student Body presidential candidate for the Impact Party, 
speaks with 18-year-old UF telecommunication freshman Mary Grace Scully, left, and 19-year-old UF marketing freshman Emily Emmanuel at Pugh Hall on Mon-day as part of “Party with the Parties” event.
UF DENTAL STUDENTS ARE 
PROVIDING DENTAL EXAMS.
By Chelsea Hansen
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dental students started doing screenings at UF’s 
College of Dentistry in December and will continue 
through March. The screenings seek to find students with certain requirements, who will in turn receive a free exam.
Because of the requirements, it is not a compre-
hensive exam.
Dental students screen potential patients in the 
months leading up to the dental board exam, which they must take to get their dental license. Senior dental students must complete two fillings and a deep cleaning to pass the board exam.
Dental services are not provided by the Student 
Health Care Center, Catherine Seemann, the com-
munications director of the SHCC, wrote in an email. 
Students in need of dental care are referred to the College of Dentistry. Exams start at $75.
The dental students have had two years of pre-
clinical practice, passed written boards and class exams and are certified by the college before taking the board exams, said Suzanna McAninley, a senior in the UF dental school.
The 29-year-old said she will take the board exam 
this year and has been screening potential patients to find someone who qualifies.
“The best patients are the 20- to 30-year-olds that 
may or may not be on their parent’s insurance, so they haven’t gone to the dentist in a few years, and they’re otherwise healthy,” McAninley said.
The screenings and procedures are monitored by 
faculty members.
Matthew Kleckner, a UF information systems ju-
nior, wrote in an email he is having two cavities filled and thinks this program gives students afford-able options for dental care.
“The reason I went to get the screening was that I 
liked the idea of getting dental work that my parents didn’t have to pay for,” the 21-year-old said.Get a cavity filled by a dental student By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A skeleton discovered near Mill-
hopper Road a week ago likely 
belonged to a white, middle-aged male who died between six and 24 months ago, officials said. The man is believed to have been about 40 to 60 years old and about 5 feet 10 inches tall at the time of his death, according to a press release issued Monday afternoon.
The skeleton was found Jan. 24 in a thick forest near the 5700 block of NW 88th St., according to 
the release.
It was found along with a pair of 
brown work boots and jeans, said 
Sgt. Brandon Kutner, a spokesman 
for the Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office.
“Right now, the biggest concern 
is trying to identify the individual 
and trying to contact any next of 
kin,” Kutner said.
Deputies, along with UF’s C.A. 
Pound Human Identification Labo-ratory and the District 8 Medical Examiner’s Office, have been in-
vestigating the case, Kutner said. 
The next step, he said, is to find the 
man’s identity and then a cause of death.
“As far as identification purpos-
es go, it’s in the hands of the scien-
tific community,” he said.
Deputies have been cross-check-
ing what they know about the man 
with state and national databases, said Art Forgey, a spokesman for 
the sheriff’s office.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice update on Millhopper skeletonCAMPUS
By Catalina Ruiz
Alligator Contributing Writer
Starting in Spring 2017, un-
dergraduate UF students will 
have the option to enroll in a 1000-level research entomology class.
Christine Miller, an assistant 
professor of entomology, said the National Science Foundation awarded her an $822,000 grant to 
fund the class.
“Undergrads will collect data 
and actually be involved in real 
research, not cookbook labora-
tory exercises,” she said.  
For example, undergraduates, 
alongside graduate students and 
professors, will investigate the evolution of animal weapons, 
like those on bighorn sheep and 
deer, and how males use them 
while mating, Miller said.
She and her students will 
study insect weapons. 
Students will spend about 
eight hours a week researching in the lab and field and an hour and a half discussing their find-ings twice a week, she said.
Miller said she plans to use 
insects in the studies because they’re easy to breed and study in large numbers. They also al-low researchers to create differ-ent sample sizes and controls, she said.Students will learn to think 
of science in relation to the real world by getting hands-on with 
leaf-footed bugs such as the Nar-
nia femorata, Acanthocephala 
declivis and Mictis profana.
Of the class’ six sections, two 
will have 50 students, two will 
have 25 students and the last two 
will have about seven students, 
Miller said.
Miller hopes to foster thought-
ful discussions in each section.
“I don’t like to get up there 
and tell people what to think,” 
Miller said. “I rather challenge them to think and hear what they have to say.”
Blair Siegfried, a professor 
and chair of insecticide toxicol-ogy and resistance management, believes the undergraduate pro-gram will be very beneficial for 
students.
Heather McAuslane, a profes-
sor of plant-insect interactions 
and chemical ecology, said the NSF grant is proof of Miller’s ex-
cellent research and the organi-
zation’s confidence in her teach-
ing abilities.
Miller said she started work-
ing as a researcher at UF eight years ago and received her Ph.D. from the University of Montana.
“It’s amazing to be awarded 
money to do something you re-ally love,” she said.UF offers new research 
class next SpringThe skeleton is male
PARTY OF PARTIES
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Kalayani Hawaldar, left, UF’s Student Body presidential candidate for the Access Party, 
and Access supporter Oliver T elusma, 19, speak with 19-year-old UF computer science and engineering freshman Nassiya Darcelin in Pugh Hall on Monday night. Darcelin said she liked that the event provided a casual setting for students to meet the parties.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
BLACK STUDENT UNION 
WILL HOST EVENTS 
THROUGHOUT FEBRUARY.
By Janiece Sebris
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Black Student Union began its 
celebration of Black History Month with 
opening ceremonies Sunday.
BSU will host a series of events through-
out the month until Feb. 25. The series in-cludes both big-name and gospel concerts, as well as discussions on race in the media 
and more.
Phillip Wells, the president of BSU, said 
the events were created to appeal to a va-riety of backgrounds.
Wells, a 21-year-old UF telecommu-
nication senior, said this year’s theme is “My Black Is…,” which allows students to 
apply their own experiences.
Between the traditional opening and 
closing ceremonies, Wells said BSU is tak-
ing part in events such as the Wiz Khalifa 
and K Camp concert Feb. 11.
Wells said the event, co-sponsored by 
BSU and UF Student Government, is an ef-fort to “keep it fresh.”
He said the month’s events are a bal-
ance of entertainment and meaningful dia-logue.
As part of the celebration, UF’s Univer-
sity Gospel Choir will also showcase music created by different choirmasters, special events coordinator for BSU James Worthy said.
“Gospel music has been important for 
trailblazing in the black community,” Worthy, a 22-year-old UF art and technol-ogy senior, said.
The free concert starts at 7 p.m. Feb. 9 
in Room 101 in the School of Music, Wells said.
A week later, on Feb. 16, BSU is also 
hosting “None Ya’ Business: A dialogue on 
race, the media and much more,” he said.
Wells said it’s important to recognize 
the richness of Black History Month.
“Important pieces of history can be for-
gotten,” he said. Celebrating  Black History Month with music, dialogue
BLACK HISTOY 
MONTH EVENTS:
 Friday, “Reclaiming the Set,” 
Turlington Plaza, 12 p.m. to 2 p.m.
 Feb. 8, “Nubian Queens Rocks,” Reitz Grand Ballroom, 7 p.m.
 Feb. 19, “Fashion X-Clusive,” 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center, 8 p.m.
For more information, visit ufbsu.com
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — A sher-
iff’s deputy told a federal jury Monday he 
would still shoot an unarmed 22-year-old 
black man, given the man’s actions in the 
seconds before he fired.
Palm Beach County Sgt. Adams Lin tes-
tified under cross-examination that “the 
totality of circumstances” led him to be-
lieve Dontrell Stephens had drawn a gun Sept. 13, 2013, and was about to shoot him when he pulled his service weapon and shot Stephens four times, leaving him 
paralyzed. 
Lin testified that Stephens started to 
raise his hands but then put his left hand 
behind his back. Stephens then thrust a 
dark object at him that he thought was a handgun, Lin said.
“I would make the same, exact choice 
again,” Lin told the six-woman, two-man 
jury.
Stephens is suing Lin and the Palm 
Beach Sheriff’s Office, alleging his civil rights were violated. He’s seeking more than $5 million to cover medical treatment and future care. The jury must decide 
whether Lin made an “objectively reason-
able mistake” when he shot Stephens.
Lin was cleared of criminal wrongdoing 
by sheriff’s investigators and local prose-cutors and was later promoted to sergeant.
Lin, 38 and a 12-year veteran of the 
sheriff’s office, said he stopped Stephens for riding his bicycle into traffic and be-cause he didn’t recognize him from the 
neighborhood.Video from the patrol car’s dashboard 
camera shows that Stephens has his cell-
phone in his right hand as he pedals in front of Lin.
Lin told the jury Monday he might have 
missed the cellphone because, unlike the video camera, he was turning his head and blinking as he drove.
As Lin caught up to Stephens, he gave a 
short siren burst and turned on his lights. Stephens rode into a duplex parking lot. Lin said — and the video confirms — Ste-phens looked back, then continued for-ward about 10 feet before jumping off the 
bike. 
Lin said he thought Stephens was about 
to run, so he jumped from his car to begin 
chasing him. Instead, Stephens walked be-
tween two parked cars toward where Lin had moved. Both were then out of camera 
range.
Under cross-examination by Stephens’ 
attorney Jack Scarola, Lin denied Ste-phens’ contention he had his gun drawn 
from the moment they confronted each 
other between the cars.
That drew sharp questions from Scaro-
la, who challenged Lin to explain how he 
could have perceived a threat, drawn his 
weapon and fired all within four seconds if his gun had been holstered.
Lin said he would not have pulled his 
gun early out of fear that Stephens was 
about to run because running with a drawn 
gun can cause an accidental discharge, something he did early in his career. He said he had learned his lesson.Deputy says he’d shoot unarmed man again given circumstances
HOOPS AND YOGA
Alice Nimmo, a 22-year-old alumna of the University of 
Central Florida, rolls a hula hoop across her arms on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday as part of a demonstration put on by Gainesville AcroYoga. The group will host a $13 workshop at S-Connection at 7:30 p.m. today.
Andres Leiva/Alligator StaffBy Madison Behm
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s University Police is col-
lecting phones to help end do-
mestic violence.
UPD started collecting wire-
less phones, batteries, chargers 
and accessories Wednesday and 
will continue to collect until Feb. 29. To collect items, UPD has partnered with HopeLine from Verizon, a program that recycles 
or resells unused phones and ac-
cessories to support victims and survivors of domestic violence.
Wayne Clark, a UPD spokes-
man, said he is working with 
a team of ofﬁ  cers to put on the 
drive.
“Cellphones are vital to people 
in these situations,” Clark said. 
“It can mean the difference be-
tween them being alone or being able to reach out to family, orga-nizations that can help them and legal assistance.”
Verizon has collected more than 11.4 million phones world-wide, given $29 million in cash grants to domestic violence or-ganizations and donated 190,000 
phones to victims, according to 
its website.
The program donates to orga-
nizations such as the National Co-alition Against Domestic Violence 
and Break the Cycle.
Eric Cruz, a UF history junior, 
said he believes the program will 
be successful.
“I do have a few things I could 
donate, especially if it’s going to a good cause,” the 20-year-old said. “I think it’s a good idea; 
it’s so easy to just drop stuff off, 
and most people have these extra things laying around.”
Although they haven’t re-
ceived any donations yet, Clark 
said he thinks they will.
“The building is open 24 hours, 
so even if you want to show up at 
2 a.m. to drop off a phone, you 
can do that,” Clark said. “We 
would love to ﬁ  ll the collection box that we have. Maybe we’ll even have to order more boxes.”  UPD helps domestic violence victims
MATERIALS BEING 
COLLECTED 
 Cellphones
 Batteries
 Chargers
 Accessories
Items are being collected in any 
condition and from any provid-er at the UF Police Department, 1555 Museum Road.They are collecting phones
“Cellphones are vital to 
people in these situations,” 
Clark said. “It can mean the 
diference between them being 
alone or being able to reach 
out to family, organizations 
that can help them and legal 
assistance.”
Wayne Clark
UPD spokesman
STATETUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Available Aug 1st. Very nice 4BR/2BA house, 
wood floors, all amenities in kitchen, W/D provided. $1450/Mo, 830 NW 6th Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. Pictures at:www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-3-16-20-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
House For Rent in NW Gainesville, close to 
UF. $1250 per month 1600 sqft. 3BD/2BA, Large Kitchen, dining, living room, Den. W/D hookup. Fenced in yard. For more informa-tion & pictures Call or text 352-222-0838.   2-11-16-10-2 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
AVAILABLE NOW! Subleasing Canopy Apts.furnished, for spring & summer 2016. Will pay $150 sublet fee & 1st month rent (must sign before April 1st) $545/mo incl utils. Pet friendly. Pool. 813-810-5869    2-3-16-2-3I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
WAIT STAFF NEEDED
Experienced only. Leonardo's Millhopper - 4131 NW 16th Blvd, Gville.   2-2-16-5-14
Busy professional seeks helper. Good with tools? Like working on different projects? Want a break from the typical college job scene? Seeking an independent, self mo-tivated problem solver. Be the helper of a successful CEO. Earn money. Learn a lot at the same time. Less than 10 hrs per week. Previous position holders all became suc-cessful entrepreneurs. Unique opportunity beyond the paycheck. Tell me why you want this job: Photos2016gnv@gmail.com    2-5-
16-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Designated drivers are the greatest
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida men's and women's 
golf teams had successful season openers on Monday.Read the stories on pg. 15.By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
About two months ago, Dorian 
Finney-Smith was Florida’s vocal 
leader.
He was challenged by the 
coaching staff to mentor the 
team’s youngest members, to 
keep them engaged in practice and during games and to help them stay motivated off the court.
But with his rise in leader-
ship came a lack of production. 
Finney-Smith, more of a soft-spo-
ken, reserved player than a loud one, was outside of his comfort zone.
During a three-game stretch 
against Florida State, Georgia and Tennessee in late December to early January, the forward aver-aged just 9.7 points per game on 
10-of-33 shooting.
Then he stopped concentrating 
on talking and let his play make 
all the noise.
Since the start of Southeastern 
Conference play, Finney-Smith has averaged 16.3 points, 8.7 re-bounds and 2.1 assists per game, along with a 50.0-percent shoot-
ing clip from the ﬁ  eld.
“Any time he opens up his 
mouth now,” coach Mike White 
said, “you’ve got a lot of guys that are really locked into what 
he’s saying.”
According to Basketball-Ref-
erence.com, Finney-Smith leads 
Florida with a 23.3 player efﬁ  -ciency rating, which is a statistic that combines categories such as ﬁ  eld goals, free throws, as-sists and rebounds to determine a player's performance. 
He also leads UF with a plus-minus rating of 12.4, which means that Finney-Smith is 12.4 points better than an average player over 100 possessions.
He’s notched three double-doubles in his last ﬁ  ve games, all while playing the most minutes per game over that span at 33.4
And the redshirt senior is do-
ing it all for a reason.“It’s my last year,” Finney-
Smith said. “Now or never.”
Gators looking to avoid let-
down against Arkansas:
After securing big wins this season, Florida has had a tenden-cy to regress in its next outing.
After the Gators defeated Jack-
sonville by 24 points on Dec. 22, 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Allen named SEC Freshman of the Week
Florida guard KeVaughn Allen was named the SEC Freshman of the Week 
on Monday. Over UF's last two games, Allen has averaged 17.5 points, two assists, two rebounds and has shot 50.0 percent from the ﬁ  eld.Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Dorian Finney-Smith dunks during Florida's win over West Virginia on Jan. 30, 2016, in the O'Connell Center.
This year has the mak-
ings of something special for the Florida 
baseball team.
But, it also has the 
makings of being one of the 
most disappointing seasons in 
program history.
After reaching the College 
World Series last year, Florida 
returns a ton of talent and some newcom-ers who can make an impact right away 
when the season starts on Feb. 19.
Anything short of an Omaha appear-
ance would be a massive disappointment 
for the Gators, but it’s not far-fetched to say the 2016 season is cham-pionship or bust.  
The feeling around the pro-
gram is that expectations are high, and they should be.  
And everyone on the team 
knows it.
As much as Florida chooses 
to ignore the situation, it has to be creeping in the back of 
its mind, and with that comes pressure. Coach Kevin O’Sullivan can try his hard-
est to make sure his players don’t pay at-
tention to the preseason hype, but let’s be real. The conversation is happening inter-Championship or bust for UF baseballTHE LACROSSE TEAM IS 
RANKED NO. 7.
By Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
One hundred three goals and 30 assists.That’s how much of last season’s of-
fense the No. 7 Florida lacrosse team is 
losing from graduated midﬁ  elders Shan-
non Gilroy and Nora Barry  — just over 30 percent of the team’s scoring from 2015. 
Though the Gators lost just three play-
ers — Gilroy, Barry and defender Mikki Ofﬁ  t — that is a lot of production to re-place. 
But coach Amanda O’Leary doesn’t have any doubts that this year’s squad can rise in the wake of signiﬁ  cant losses.
“We certainly have the personnel,” 
O’Leary said on Monday.
“We have the ability to make up for 
those points pretty easy. It’s just a matter of them stepping up and taking the reigns and going with it.”
One player who is expected to do just 
that is veteran Mollie Stevens.
The junior midﬁ  elder, who was unani-
mously named an All-Big East ﬁ  rst-team preseason selection last week, is coming 
off her best collegiate season, setting ca-
reer highs in six categories including goals (43) and assists (nine). UF to ﬁ  eld youth and experience
SEE LAX,  PAGE 14Notebook: Finney-Smith leading Gators with improved play
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 14
TORRES TELLS IT
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIIInally within the team as spring 
practice gets underway. 
“We already know about it, 
but we’re not really thinking much about it honestly,” sopho-more catcher Mike Rivera said. “We’re just gonna come out here every single day and just do our 
thing and not worry about what 
everybody else says, so we’re gonna do it day by day”
This team is facing the pres-
sure of performing at a high level in every game and every series. With potential first-round picks in A.J. Puk, Logan Shore and Buddy 
Reed, along with Collegiate Base-
ball’s 2015 Co-Freshman of the Year JJ Schwarz, UF is going to get every team’s best shot. 
The ability to play day-in and 
day-out with a target the size of TD Ameritrade Park on their back won’t be easy. 
“Every team we play, they’re 
going to give us their best,” junior right-handed pitcher Shaun An-derson said. “Everyone wants to beat Florida, and I think it gives us more motivation to go into the 
season and be the best we can 
be.”
O’Sullivan has never shied 
away from mentioning Omaha, 
and he’s never shied away from 
expectations. He expects his teams to compete for Southeast-ern Conference titles and to make   deep runs in the postseason. 
And he’s aware that it won’t 
be an easy road. 
“There’s a lot of things that go 
into it. We’ve got to stay healthy. 
We’ve got to play right at the 
right time,” O’Sullivan said. “So it’s a little early to predict what kind of team this is. 
“I think on paper it’s a very 
talented team. But obviously it takes a lot more than talent to win in this league.”
O’Sullivan also said there are 
“Omaha teams” and “Omaha pro-grams,” and the Gators are striv-ing to become the latter. 
For Florida, that goal must 
start this year, and anything short 
of winning it all will be a massive 
disappointment. 
Luis Torres is the online sports 
editor. Contact him at ltorres@
alligator.org and follow him on 
Twitter @LFTorresIII.Nicole Graziano is another midfielder 
who O’Leary expects to play a heavy role in making up for the recently departed midfielder duo.
To go along with a career-best 26 goals, 
the Mendham, New Jersey, native finished last season tied for the second-most assists on the team and created the third-most turnovers with 18.
O’Leary is also confident that the team's 
freshmen will step up along with the rest of team by the start of the season, which is Saturday against Loyola. 
“They came in the fall, really hit the 
ground running, found their way,” O’Leary said of the newcomers. 
Among the new Gators are Lindsey Ron-
beck and Sydney Pirreca — the top two re-cruits in the 2015 class. They’re joined by 
Caroline Benitez and Madi Hall.
O’Leary is expected to trot out some of 
her new pieces at Donald R. Dizney Sta-
dium on Saturday to get significant playing 
time.
“They’re quite a crew and a group that really made their presence known early 
on,” O’Leary said. 
Another challenge facing Florida, with 
the loss of Gilroy, is the question of who 
will handle the draws.
Gilroy led the Gators in draw controls 
during each of her four collegiate seasons, 
and last year’s runner-up in the category had just over half as many controls as Gil-
roy did.
Despite this fact, O’Leary said on Mon-
day that UF has six viable options in the 
draw circle.
The most notable of the six may be 
Devon Schneider, who stands at a tower-ing 6-foot-2 — five inches taller than the next-tallest Gator.
With Gilroy and Barry both accounting 
for 37 percent of the team’s draw controls last season, UF will need one or more play-ers to rise to the occasion when it comes to securing possessions in the middle. 
“People are really going to have to step 
up,” O’Leary said. “And, I think, play lights out at the draw circle.”
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Mike Rivera throws a ball during Florida's 14-3 win against the South 
Carolina Gamecocks on April 11, 2015, at McKethan Stadium.
LAX,  from pg 13Florida's freshmen are expected to see playing time on Saturday
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Mollie Stevens (17) runs toward the net during Florida's win against San Diego State last season at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
they fell to Florida State at home 
seven days later.
After beating Georgia by 
double digits in its next game, UF suffered an embarrassing 
14-point loss on the road to 
Tennessee where it trailed by as many as 30 points.
And, finally, after a 32-point 
shellacking of Auburn on Jan. 23 in which the Gators made 56.9 percent of their shots, they fell to Vanderbilt by one point in their next game behind a 
21.2-percent first-half shooting 
performance.
“I think the biggest challenge 
by far in a way will be our men-tality,” White said. “We just beat a top 10 team, and now you have a team that’s hovering around .500. How do our guys handle that?”
When Florida (14-7, 5-3 SEC) 
faces Arkansas (11-10, 4-4 SEC) on Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the O’Connell Center, it’ll have to avoid a letdown while also contending with Razorbacks' forward Moses Kingsley, guard Dusty Hannahs and the nation’s sixth-ranked three-point shoot-
ing team (42.4 percent).
Kingsley and Hannahs both 
average over 16 points per 
game, more than any Florida player. 
The Gators must also find a 
way to limit Arkansas guard Ja-bril Durham, the SEC’s leader in assists per game at 7.0.
“We tend to get up for big 
games against teams that are highly rated and highly talent-ed,” Finney-Smith said. “We just got to be more internally motivated, and that starts with maturing.”
Injuries aplenty:Seven minutes into Florida’s 
win over West Virginia on Sat-
urday, Kasey Hill’s nose began 
to bleed after it was whacked by a West Virginia player. Hill and the Florida medical staff hurried back to the locker room and dis-covered his nose was broken.
The junior returned with 8:25 
left in the first half and scored four points, dished out one as-
sist and went 2-of-4 from the 
free-throw line.
“I thought he showed incred-
ible physical toughness,” White said. “No one in the stands even knew he had a broken nose, but to go out and continue to play and make the decisions he made and the way he battled, I was 
proud of him after the game, for 
sure.”
Add Hill to forwards Alex 
Murphy, Justin Leon and Ke-varrius Hayes who are also on Florida’s injury list. 
Murphy has been sidelined 
since Nov. 6 and Leon missed Saturday’s game against West 
Virginia after he suffered a head 
injury against Vanderbilt last Tuesday.
Hayes had his shoulder 
wrenched while fighting for a rebound midway through the second half of Saturday’s game. Although he returned to score four points and grab another re-
bound, Florida is unsure of his 
availability tonight.
“We’ll find out more today as 
far as what strength he is at,” White said. “We’re banged up.”
@icohen
icohen@alligator.orgHill, Murphy, Leon and Hayes 
are dealing with injuries
NOTEBOOK,  from pg 13COLUMN,  from pg 13By Alfredo Morales
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s golf team started its 
Spring season on an explosive note after going 
club-to-club with other Florida teams in the Flor-
ida Challenge tournament on Monday.
UF ended the day in first place out of five 
teams with a final score of 5 under par at the 
Black Diamond Ranch Quarry Course in Lecan-
to, Florida. 
“It was a real team effort today and it’s great 
to come away with the win,” UF coach Emily 
Glaser said in a release. “The team played with a lot of heart.” 
Florida State came in second at 7 over par, 
and Central Florida rounded out the top three with a score of 24 over par. 
Taking to the green for the Gators were fresh-
man Sam Wagner, sophomore Taylor Tomlin-son and juniors Maria Torres, Karolina Vlckova, and Kelly Grassel.
Florida went into the tournament ranked No. 
12 after an impressive performance at the 2015 
Alamo Invitational in San Antonio, Texas, before 
winter break, where it saw stellar performances from Torres and Vlckova. Torres scored 6 under par, which landed her in first place. Vlckova tied 
for second with a score of 1 under par.
However, with tougher competition, the pair 
did not see the same results on Monday. Torres 
finished the day 1 under par, placing her sev-enth overall. Similarly, Vlckova finished 4 over par, landing in tenth place.Fortunately for the Gators, Grassel and Tom-
linson more than made up for it, tying for first. Both finished the day 3 under par, claiming a victory for Florida. 
 “I’m glad that we started off this way,” Gras-
sel said in a release. “I think it definitely gives us a lot of confidence to keep working hard.”
However, the day did not start out well for 
UF’s squad.
The Gators found themselves trailing Florida 
State after the first round 287-285. Florida State’s Lydia Gumm and Matilda Castren led the tour-nament with scores of 3 under par each. 
It was in the second round that the Gators 
turned the tournament in their favor. Grassel stayed consistent throughout the second round, only dropping from 2 under par to 1 under par and finishing 3 under par for the day. 
However, the biggest second-round push 
came from Tomlinson. The sophomore, who tied for sixth at Florida’s last tournament, im-proved from 1 over par to an impressive 4 under 
par in the second round. Her performance was 
enough to land her in a first-place tie at day’s end at 3 under par.
Three Gators also played in the tournament  
as individuals: senior Laura Kanouse, junior Syd-
ney Needham and freshman Madison Pacheco. 
Needham lead the trio thanks to a second-round improvement, ending the day at 3 over par.
Florida continues play against Ohio State in 
the Northrop Regional Challenge on Sunday. 
      @amorales_95
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
The No. 12 Florida Gators men’s 
golf team opened up spring play with a bang on Monday at the Sea 
Best Invitational due to the spec-
tacular play of the team’s under-classmen. 
The Gators — headed by a 
five-man lineup of freshmen Jorge Garcia, Sam Horsfield and Kyler Tate, sophomore Alejandro Tosti and junior Ryan Orr — dominated the first day of competition at the 
par-70 Dye’s Valley Course at TPC 
Sawgrass, posting a 17-under-par 543 after 36 holes. 
“This morning and this first 
round were a product of the last two months for this team,” UF coach J.C. Deacon said in a release. “They’ve been working so hard, preparing so well, sacrificing a lot 
to be in the position they were, and 
the guys were just really ready to 
play.”
UF holds a commanding lead 
over the 15-team field entering the 
final round of the 54-hole event. 
No. 6 North Carolina, with a 
2-over-par total of 562, is alone in second, and Liberty University, with a 9-over-par total of 569, is 
alone in third. 
The Gators hit the ground run-ning to start the opening 18, posting 
a blistering 15-under-par 265. Tosti fired an opening-round of 6-under 
64. Horsfield made six birdies en-route to a 5-under 65. Garcia had 
a bogey-free, 4-under 66. And Orr rounded out UF’s top four with 
an even-par round of 70. Tosti’s 64 and Horsfield’s 65 set personal 
bests in collegiate competition. The red-hot Gators would cool off 
slightly in the second round. Garcia was 1 under par when he 
came to the 17th hole — a mon-
strous 499-yard par-4. He would 
triple bogey the hole to finish his 
round with a 2-over-par 72. At 2 under, Garcia sits in fourth place alone. However, Horsfield, Tosti 
and Orr were there to pick up the 
slack.
Horsfield and Tosti finished the 
second round with solid rounds of 68 and 69, respectively. At 7 under 
par, the two players will enter the 
final round tied for second — only a shot back of North Carolina’s Joshua Martin, who opened with 
rounds of 64 and 68. 
Orr improved upon his first-
round 70 with a 1-under-par 69, 
giving him a share of fifth place with Lipscomb University’s Daw-
son Armstrong and Campbell Uni-
versity’s Gaston Bertinotti.
The Gators will look to finish 
the final round on a strong note as 
they move toward their first win of 
the spring schedule.
“Believe it or not, as good as 
(Horsfield’s and Tosti’s) play was, there were still some pretty glaring 
errors for both that they need to 
improve on,” Deacon said. “I think they can be even better than they were today.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Alligator File Photo
Alejandro T osti putts during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational on UF’s Mark Bostic Golf Course.
Alligator File Photo 
Kelly Grassel lines up a putt during the 2015 SunTrust Invitational on UF’s Mark 
Bostick Golf Course.
Women’s golf finishes in first
Florida men’s golf makes statement in opening roundsUF golf teams see success in Spring openers16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Timing is everything. 
In sports, competition is as 
much about getting hot at the 
right time as it is about sustaining 
success. 
Shoot out of the gates, and you 
run the risk of peaking too early. Cool off too soon, and a potential postseason run becomes difﬁ  cult. 
In spite of its recent victories, 
UF’s gymnastics team is manag-ing just ﬁ  ne. 
Opening their third consecu-
tive title-defense campaign at a blistering pace, the Gators (4-0, 2-0 Southeastern Conference) have convincingly clinched their ﬁ  rst four meets of the season. 
Improving upon the prior 
week’s point total in all but one contest, they managed to post the nation’s highest team score 
last Friday, notching a 198.175 — 
the seventh-highest score in pro-gram history — against the visit-
ing then-No. 5 Alabama Crimson 
Tide. 
The No. 1 Gators average 
197.438 points per meet — tops in the country and .253 points 
higher than second-ranked Okla-
homa — and have lost just two events out of 20 by a combined .100 points. 
Individually, Florida’s gym-
nasts rank in the top two na-tionally across all ﬁ  ve categories while winning all but one indi-vidual event title to date. 
The Gators are on a tear, but 
according to coach Jenny Row-land, the best is yet to come. 
“Scores are awesome, but re-
ally I think what I like to look at is (that)...we’re competing against ourselves and making sure that we’re on task,” she said on Monday.  “We’re doing what 
we can in order to move forward 
and peak. I don’t feel like we’ve peaked by any means.”With six meets to go before 
postseason play, the Gators will need to continue trending upward 
if they hope to ﬁ  nish undefeated 
for the ﬁ  rst time since the 2007 regular season. 
And, slated to take on ﬁ  ve cur-
rent top-25 teams, they’ll need to 
save their best for last. 
However, they aren’t particu-
larly worried. For a squad in the 
midst of another historic cam-
paign, Florida is content with 
being normal, taking solace in knowing everything will fall into place.
“Stressing normalcy in the 
gym takes the pressure off of the athletes to just be able to do what they know how to do,” Rowland said. “When you stress perfec-
tion, your mind takes over and 
that’s when the mistakes are gon-na start happening. … I see a lev-el of conﬁ  dence just continuing to build and build and build, and 
I hope that continues throughout 
the rest of the season.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgGymnastics oﬀ   to hot start, yet to peak
UF won its irst four meets 
RIGHT:
Kennedy Baker performs her 
floor routine during Florida’s win over Alabama on Friday in the O’Connell Center. 
BELOW:
Alex McMurtry (right) cel-ebrates with UF coach Jenny Rowland during Florida’s win over Alabama on Friday night.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff